ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[President of the Council of Ministers Mateusz Morawiecki enters the room, applause]] I am calling for the secretaries of today's proceedings Agata Borowiec, Daniel Milewski, Grzegorz Puda and Piotr Uściński. In the first part of the session, Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Piotr Uściński will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Daniel Milewski. I consider the minutes of the 82nd session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! I would like to inform you that in connection with the expiry of the mandate of Mr Andrzej Halicki on the basis of the article. 251 § 5 of the electoral code I have decided to replace Mrs Alicia Dąbrowska, who has taken the oath. I ask the Member to come closer to the Presidency table and your Members to stand up. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mrs Alicia Dąbrowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u2	I promise. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u3	Thank you very much. I state that Mrs Alicia Dąbrowska has taken a vow of marriage. At the 78th meeting of the Sejm, he did not vote on the motion to reject the Government's draft law on amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services at first reading and the Tax Order, print No 3255. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including this vote. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Family Benefits and the Act on Health Care Benefits financed by public funds, print No 3551. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Penal Code law, including the self-correction, prints no. 3386 and 3386-A. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law together with the self-correction. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act, print No 3563. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the amendment of the Act on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and the Corporate Income Tax Act, print No 3247. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on support for the development of telecommunications networks and certain other laws, - amending the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law on taxation of goods and services and of certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Act on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the establishment of the Medal of the Century of Recovered Independence. The reports shall include prints 3545, 3553, 3557 and 3559 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of Article 44 (1). 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws, - amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and certain other laws. The reports shall be in prints 3569 and 3570, respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in joint discussions on: - a report on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council in 2018 and information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018, - the first readings of the draft laws concerning the Tax Order and the Ombudsman's Taxpayer's Rights. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2018. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the media reports on the request of the banks by the Polish Government to assist the Polish Government in proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union in the process concerning the so-called. Franchised Credits, of which the presentation was submitted by the Kukiz Poselski Club15. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 10.30, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 12, - Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Public Finance - hour. 13.30, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 15, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - at 3 p.m. 16, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 16, - Public Finance - hour. 17, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17, - Infrastructure - hour 5:30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 19. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Polish herbalization - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Police - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: diabetes mellitus - hour 14, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u5	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Family Benefits and the Act on Health Care Services financed by public funds (print No 3551). I ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I have a great pleasure, I feel joy for this reason, to present one of the most important projects, a project that opens up prospects for young people. We talk to young people very often - we talk to our older children, we talk to young people - to come out from behind their smartphones to look at reality outside their tablets. But for the record, I think it's kind of an excuse for politicians. It's often the other way around, it's the politicians who should come out from behind their different twitters and facebooks so that they can get the best of each other, focus on what young people need, [[Applause]] What the life of young people looks like, what the life of a person who is 19 years old, 22 years old, 25 years old. Very often he still learns, studies, first jobs, first part-time jobs, sometimes helps his parents, often starts a family or thinks about starting a family, rents an apartment. These are the first existential needs of young people. During these 30 years, despite passing generations, the Polish state required too much from young people. Too much is required of young people, and too little helps young people. We want to change that. [[Applause]] This is what this project is meant to be for, the project is intended to do without PIT for young people. This is a project which aims to increase opportunities, improve prospects, make the opportunities of young people in the labour market, the opportunities of young people in Poland more and more, such as their counterparts in the West. Ladies and gentlemen! It is estimated that over the past years, since Poland's accession to the European Union in 2004, 1700 thousand have left Poland. residents. This is as much as there are more or less inhabitants of Warsaw, i.e. the whole Warsaw was deserted. It's a giant loss. We can't afford another one, we have to attract young people. Young people have a harder life, they have a harder job in the labour market. The entry into force of adults, career building to a great extent involves the possibility of obtaining the first funds for renting apartments, the payment of installments for apartments, for starting a family - it all costs. We want to help young people at least a little bit. The project without PIT for young people is zero PIT. Zero PIT, but 100% opportunities for young people for a better future in Poland. [[Applause]] This project has a chance to benefit from about 2 million, over 2 million young people. High Izbo! This increases the likelihood that they will stay here, in Poland, that they will not decide to emigrate, that this proposal, which many had Unfortunately for previous governments, many also young people, that is: change your job, take credit, change it, take more credit, change your job... [[A bowl of rice!]] ...and if you don't like it, get out of Poland, it's gonna stop pushing young people out... [[That's what happened.]] ...has to stop. Young people must stay in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Young people must want to stay in Poland. It's our duty, that's what we're going to do. This is also the Polish state right. This is why we are already involving about PLN 1 billion in this project this year, because it will start to work if the High House and the President so decide, since August, and next year it will be at least PLN 2.5 billion. It is a huge investment in young people, in order for them to be able to gain the first experience, so that they can have a lot of new resources left in their wallets, measures they would not have, because employers were not ready for such rapid increases. By reducing PIT, we give young workers a raise - by reducing PIT to zero we give young workers a raise. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We all know the moment when the runners are getting ready for the run and waiting for the bang of a gunshot. This project, I hope - i.e. without PIT, without tax for contract contracts, without PIT from employment contract for people up to 26 years of age - is such a expected shot, is the shot that young people are waiting for. I strongly believe that this will make many of them decide to come back here, and if they have not yet decided whether or not they have decided what way to go, that they will decide to take their first job, that it will be easier for them to find this job. So I would like this project to be a project that will unite the entire High House, because it is a very good, very well-prepared project for all young people. It is an opportunity that we want to give young people. Those who study take part in the work, but also those who do not study and enter the market at the age of 19, take the first job in the world of work. All of them will have a significant extra income in their pockets, in their wallets. This is the basic objective of our actions, which we have proposed: without PIT for young people, without taxing young people. In addition for young people, I want to remind you this now, we have a project of unregistered activity, so a minimum of formalities, practically zero formalities and very low taxation of various activities. For example, for young people living in the countryside and working in agriculture, we have introduced agricultural retail trade. Previously, the sale of agricultural goods, agricultural products at the place of manufacture was punishable by a fine. We have abolished this fine and today it is possible to sell virtually without tax, and above a certain amount with a minimum tax. We do this so that in different places, wherever young people live, in the countryside, in small towns, in big cities, create better prospects for young people, exploit their talents, [[Applause]] use their skills, create an opportunity for them to acquire these skills. So please, High Chamber: let us vote in favour of the zero PIT law for young people up to 26 years old, vote in favour of young people, vote in favour of Poland. Thank you. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. At the moment, I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister has already said the most important things about this bill. The justification shows that this project can actually be operational in the current year in 2019. Here is the possibility of canceling advances in the current year, i.e. 5/12 of this amount, over 35 thousand. zł. This is the value of income that can be recognised in terms of income raising in the current year and already full advances from 1 January 2020. In fact, we know that it is the dismissal of people both on the contract of employment and on the contract of the order. That's what I was talking about. It is also true that we are dealing with all the elements relating to income which are the basis for taxation of CIT. I have the impression that there will be a number of questions, so that I will allow myself to answer questions if they appear on the part of the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u9	Thank you, Minister. I would remind the Sejm that in the discussion on this item we will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Wiesław Janczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! It is a very appropriate decision to give encouragement, an opportunity for young people who often, underappreciated, work very hard, doing their job as students, students, students at numerous training courses, also taking up knowledge in the individual course of their studies, trying to carry out their household in a responsible way and taking up work. I have to admit, this is a whole new opening. Let's remember: four years ago, a student working part-time because he had a little time, he got four zlotys an hour's work. It was legal in Poland. Today, since 2020, the amount of the minimum hourly rate is shifted to 16 PLN. That's four times more. This shows concern for young people. [[Applause]] This shows the optics used by the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic, expressing really high sensitivity and social empathy, in this case especially for young people. But there are more aspects here that are worth recalling. This aspect is e.g. A package of five changes, five policy proposals that Law and Justice have offered, which have won the elections, have removed the previous governments of PO-PSL from power. There was an argument such as raising the retirement age to 67 years: for ladies - by 7 years, for men - by 2 years, for women in the countryside - by 12 years. Ricochet for staying in the labour market was given to a young generation of people. Unemployment in the range of up to 25 years old - because this is how it is measured - has been 24% since the age of 15. Today it fell by half after our actions. But there was another action, targeted, long-term: introduction without parental approval of an accelerated, early start of primary education in order to deliver more people to the labour market, without taking care of the minimum wage, which will be the minimum hourly rate. We have broken the impasse in this sphere. [[Applause]] I would like to say this: if we look at other European countries, we will see that no project in this sphere is so far gone, it is not as modern as the project submitted by the Government of Law and Justice and discussed by Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Ladies and gentlemen, we can be proud of this. Countries such as Spain, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Croatia, the Czech Republic, even though they had the courage to introduce such regulations - also embedded within a certain framework, also with certain exemptions - have never had the courage to go as far as clean, clear, universal and unambiguous as the Government of Law and Justice. Indeed, praise is to be given, and praise is to be given. I think, ladies and gentlemen, it will be appreciated. Without getting into the details of these amounts, it is important to say that those who will work in a stable way, as so far, will get one more salary per year. I also want to talk about the consequences. They are estimated in the impact assessment for over PLN 25 billion. There are here statements that some of these amounts from PIT and CIT taxes will not affect the budgets of local government units. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we hope that in 10 years it will amount to over PLN 25 billion, of which about PLN 11 billion - on the income of local government units, please note that the repair of the public finance system and the introduction of fair competition in many areas and clear, transparent tax rules make it possible for local governments to receive more than PLN 15 billion each year for these taxes; therefore, within 10 years they will receive at least PLN 150 billion. Therefore, there is no reason to worry too much about the fact that local governments will also have to bring their minimum brick into this project. It's a really modern project, expected and worthy of support. The Law and Justice Club proposes that the project be sent to work in the Public Finance Committee and recommends it, gives a positive opinion on this document. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u11	Thank you, sir. Mr Marta Golbik, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u12	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! It is hard to see which Mateusz Morawiecki is more real: whether the one who spoke about lowering social expectations or the one who wants to facilitate the functioning of young Poles today. I'll just remind you, because it's hard not to notice that this is an activity that takes place shortly before the election. Two years, exactly two years have been wasted when it comes to young Poles, since the Civic Platform submitted a program prepared by Professor Andrzej Rzoncza. Because this debate today, I see, is not substantive because we have not heard anything from the Prime Minister or from the Minister, I will present these specifics. We presented a program that provided for the release of people up to 25 years of age from social security contributions. It would increase the income of this half of young people who earn less, 2,4 and 4,6 times more than the zero PIT you present today, because it would fire them or compensate them not only for PIT, but also for a large part of their social security contributions. Secondly, the increase in pay per hand according to our programme would be the greater, the more someone earns, and not the other way around, as in the case of zero PIT. They would also have a lasting character. With you, when someone turns 26, there's going to be a bump in wages because there's going to be a bump in these taxes. I wish you'd been able to talk to us two years ago. our programme, because it would have helped young people since then to have reliefs, to have discounts, to have, as you said today, an easier situation on the labour market. Today we see that this is an action only for the nearest elections. Of course, we are glad that our programs make you think about such reliefs for young people in your power camp, and we want to continue working on them. But there are a few buts about this program. First, please answer us: Why do you not take into account business, why do you not take into account the work contract? The young man who conducts business is the most need for this support. As far as the number of businesses is concerned for young people, this is 51 000, and it is for business people between the ages of 20 and 24. The number of start-ups is increasing, which are also assumed by very young people, up to the age of 24. Those persons, on the other hand, are not taken into account by the Law and Justice. These people won't get any relief. It will also not be given to people who receive sickness benefits, maternity benefits, rehabilitation benefits. They will not all be exempt from this income tax. It is also worth noting the issue of local governments, local government units, which are not certain, and there is even uncertainty here, as we have heard today about the Member who presented the position of the PiS, about the return of what will be lost by taking away this part of the tax. This return will not be made. So once again, the government is making commitments, taking money away from local governments, giving them nothing in return. As far as the summary of this law is concerned, it is worth noting that you can see that the PiS government is absolutely reluctant to enterprising people. We appreciate that, and we want to keep working on getting young people off PIT. We regret, as I say, that we did not deal with this two years ago when we presented this proposal - a much broader proposal that goes further, a proposal for all people, a proposal that does not limit the circle of low earners only in relation to the age according to which people who turn 26 would not suddenly be relieved. We have not touched on this proposal because today we have a proposal from the Law and Justice, which gives young people income tax exemptions, but does not give this exemption to young people who are entrepreneurial and want to conduct their own business. We will, of course, make such amendments in committee, and we are therefore in favour of further proceding. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u13	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. Minister! High Izbo! A few preliminary remarks. Ladies and gentlemen, on my way here to the plenary session, I heard on the radio that these provisions will apply from 1 August, which could indicate that, in principle, the decision is already taken and Parliament is therefore unnecessary, first of all. Secondly, in the OSR, i.e. the impact assessment of the regulation, this project reads that the consultation at EU level of this project will end in mid-July. Meanwhile, today we have our first reading, we know that the second reading is scheduled for tomorrow morning and there will probably be a third reading in the evening. So it turns out that the project will be adopted before the end of its consultation, the ones provided for by law. And no, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely in line with Kukiz's point of view and direction when it comes to reducing taxes, and in this case reducing them to zero, and acting in favour of young people,15, so in this respect, we have to be clear: we are in favour of these solutions. But we ask the following questions: Why have they not been included in this project, why can they not benefit from this exemption from business people? [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, if you'd be kind enough to shut the room down a bit. I can't hear myself. It is also about those already mentioned who provide their services on the basis of work contracts. Why can't they use it? Going further - in the impact assessment you point out that the reduction of CIT to 15% resulted in an increase in tax revenues by almost 1/3. So why don't you take the path you set before you, which you can see is good? Lower taxes equal more revenue to the budget. So why don't you make a brave move and lower your PIT even more than you said you would? [[Come on.]] No, I'm not. I'm gonna ask you that. I will ask because, as I said, this project is a good idea - the release of young people - but Prime Minister, a little more reality. Forgive me for referring to the age issue, but I am a generation of people who, when they were 18 years old, had the opportunity to leave for Great Britain, then Germany or Holland. A lot of my friends just left and work in the UK. This project may possibly stop the flow of young people abroad, but offering young people, assuming this project comes in, net rates per hand, let them have up to 2 000. zł, will not cause people who make 2,000 today. Euros or pounds, they will return to Poland. That's why it's one of the elements. Tax reduction, yes. Preferring young people - too. Although I would prefer to see taxes reduced for everyone, because, as I repeat and repeat, you wrote it yourself. Lowering taxes, I'm not saying that everyone and to zero, because that would also be irrational, but reducing interest taxes causes nominal increases in revenue to the state budget. So, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we are in favour of this project going to the committee so that we can work on this project, all the more so that it is not long. I think it is real to meet this deadline, which was said that on August 1, i.e. soon, in less than a month, these regulations will come into force and young people will be able to benefit from these tax preferences. But I very much hope that this will not only be the first and last step towards tax reduction and preference, encouraging young people not only to work but also to do business. I hope that we will have a substantive discussion in this area in committee: whether this is possible. In particular, I ask the Minister of Finance, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, to prepare an argument as to why you do not wish to include this exemption of self-employed or business persons. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] In what they are worse than those who have decided to work e.g. on the basis of an employment contract or an order contract? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the print project No.3551, which contains amendments to three laws: the Act on income tax on individuals, the Family Benefits Act and the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds. The exemption limit is linked to the failure to exceed the first tax threshold, i.e. the amount of PLN 85 528 per year. This year, as the Act will enter into force on 1 August - this is the plan - this amount is proportionally lower and amounts to PLN 35 636. Unfortunately, I must point out that the project that has been presented is burdened with a certain lie. Besides, this is not the first such project from the Law and Justice Government. I must say that very often, when discussing financial laws, my colleagues ask me when I report on the project, which is the second bottom. Well, in this case, I don't want to talk about the second day, but there's an understatement here. The Law and Justice government has declared income tax exemption - everyone has heard it - young people up to the age of 26, but as usual, the devil is in the details. This project excluded people up to 26 years of age who are self-employed, self-employed or in a small company, but their own company, i.e. the most active people, to whom we often put such a task, to take matters into their own hands. Unfortunately, this does not apply to these persons, because the Act states that income from business relationships, employment relationships, overlay work, cooperative employment relationships and contract contracts are exempt from income tax on individuals. My dear fellows, in this case the project violates the principle of equality before the law, it is not for everyone, although we are preaching something completely different. The government emphasizes that young people are released until they are 26 years old, but it does not prove that this is selective. In fact, these young people, who very often already have an idea during their studies and implement it - maybe small, because it is a combination of science and business - we exclude. This project cannot be rejected because it is a good option, but, as I say, it is burdened with a lie. And that's a lie - I hope - in the course of committee work we just have to eliminate it, we have to fix it, we have to extend it to those groups that haven't been included. These are the groups of the most active people we should particularly care about. The idea is that these people, starting their own business at a young age, should be able to continue it in the following years. So we will certainly make an amendment on this issue. The second point concerns the failure to take account of compensation for local government units. Calling this in such a way that it is the participation of local government units and going out to meet the young, is, I would say, a little naive, because it is not the first task that the local government must carry out on its own. The cost for the budget, as has been said, is: in the following years, the budget will not be affected by PLN 2.5 billion. So we are not going to reject this project, but we are paying attention, as I said, to these two issues that need to be taken into account: the question of extending this project and including all young people up to the age of 26 and the question of compensation for local government units. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u17	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Majka, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that I am very pleased with Mr Morawiecki's project. It is very important when it comes to mobilising young people to return to Poland. However, in order for this to be real, first Poles need to know what the economic state of the country is. Prime Minister, I directed the interpellation to find out what is the economic state of the Polish state from 1989 to 2018. And to be honest, the answer I received from Minister Schreiber was surprising to me. It does not indicate a document which would confirm that such a report on the state of the Polish state exists. I will remind you that when it was born in Poland in 1980, President Ronald Reagan of the United States put Milton Friedman's program into practice. Milton Friedman made it clear that if the tax is more than 15% , management by a person who carries on an economic activity makes no sense. Let's look at the situation of the Polish taxpayer. The economy in Poland can no longer function at all. Next line. As far as local governments are concerned, I, Prime Minister, would propose that you pay attention to the eastern wall in the course of your work as Prime Minister. When it comes to the eastern wall, i.e. Przemyśl, Jarosław, Przeworsk, because Rzeszów is already developing differently, there is simply a total stagnation there, there is no investment. Prime Minister! The Pole travelling abroad works in a 2-week system and the hourly rate for a Polish employee, which only crosses the border of Germany, Great Britain, is very increased. We are in the European Union. Prime Minister, this is a clear proof that a Polish citizen, being in the European Union, is not treated on an equal footing with others. Look, when it comes to cheap labour, how Poles are exploited. This is, in my opinion, inhumane treatment. I'm sorry to bring this up, but this is important, and I'd like us to pay attention. Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u19	Thank you, sir. [[The Marshal will take care of the recipe.]] Mr Richard Petru, Circle of Members now! [[Voice from the room: Now he will perform now!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Do you know what this tax reduction for young people will be financed from? Totally from the increase in contributions to the Social Security Office. The liquidation of PITs for young people will cost PLN 2.5 billion. [[Voice from the room: How do we collect the modern debt?]] That's how much less it's gonna go into the budget. Who's gonna pay for this? Everyone who conducts business activity, because I will remind you: the contribution next year increases by 120 PLN per month, i.e. by 1440 PLN per year. For this reason 4 billion PLN will be added to the budget, or 4 billion PLN additionally you draw from entrepreneurs. There is a 2.5 billion loss in the liquidation of PIT for young people. The budget for these two operations earns PLN 1.5 billion, i.e. the tax burden of Poles is increasing rather than decreasing. Someone is about to say that ZUS contributions are rising because that's what the bill says, but the bill, as you know it, is able to change it in one day. As part of the promotion of entrepreneurship, instead of introducing 34 new taxes in the last 4 years, it was possible to amend the ZUS Act and reduce the ZUS contribution e.g. about 200 PLN, so as to start Polish entrepreneurship. So what if you declare your desire to help one social group, while at the same time you cover bakers, gardeners, shoemakers, taxi drivers with an additional amount of almost PLN 1500 a year? Second thing. If there is money to reduce PIT for the youngest taxpayers, why haven't the tax thresholds been increased since 2009, are they not implemented? Every year, people who are close to the second threshold lose PLN 1700 due to inflation, because this is what inflation consumes every year as a result of the freezing of the threshold. And that is what promoting Polish entrepreneurship is all about. I appeal to the entire opposition: don't race PiS for populism. Instead of reducing the tax for the youngest should, as I said, reduce the ZUS contribution by PLN 200 for all entrepreneurs. If we do not want to build an oligarchic state, where the strength of the economy is based on the great state piers, as is unfortunately the case in many countries of the Soviet bloc, Poland should, Prime Minister, bet on Polish family entrepreneurship, on Polish family companies, not on them. And what is our situation in recent years? Big multinationals are being promoted... [[International canned goods?]] ...who get tax exemptions. [[Voice from the room: I understood that too.]] What do Polish small companies get? 34 new taxes, scaring the businessman with a test... [[Voice from the room: A new formula of yours.]] ...and an increase in contributions to the Social Security Office. This bill is public, and I'm gonna tell you how it's gonna work. Those who hire graduates will just hire them cheaper. And you know why? Ladies and gentlemen, let me explain this to you because you are out of this world. Young people get along on the net wage, not on the gross wage, on the hand wage, or on the young one, they will have exactly the same salary, and the employer will simply pay less. And you know what happens when they turn 26? They're just gonna get fired because suddenly they're gonna get more expensive. This law does not solve the problem in any way more than 800,000. people aged 18 and 29 who are neither working nor learning nor looking for a job are simply inactive. And no 500+ program will help these people. I therefore request that this bill be rejected at first reading. [[Oh, now... jesus... shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Let us not be deceived by the temptation to bid on populism. Especially in this case This is extremely perfidious populism. With your left hand, you lower labour costs for young people... [[That's populism.]] ...and at the same time you have the right to increase labour costs for all self-employed entrepreneurs. This is how Polish entrepreneurship is killed, so the Polish initiative is killed, so the Polish dreams of prosperity are killed. And we have to say straight away: this five Kaczyńskis are offering you oligarchics, such as we know from Russia and unfortunately more and more from Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Go into this business now.]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe it's better not.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u21	Mr Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Family Benefits and the Act on Health Care Services financed by public funds. This bill is part of the bill announced in February this year. so-called. Five of Law and Justice. After so many promises made, no one should be surprised that the present government is fulfilling another. This time we are discussing a solution that benefits taxpayers, which is zero PIT for young people. A new tax credit is to be granted to people up to the age of 26 who receive income based on the most popular forms of employment - so-called. job or contract order - regardless of the number of contracts signed. The exemption from personal income tax will be limited by an amount limit of PLN 85 528 in the tax year. The excess income will be taxed on a general basis, taking into account the tax-free amount and the preferential rules available to spouses and single parents. The amendments are to enter into force on 1 August 2019. It is important to emphasise that the proposed rules aim not only to increase the wages of workers fulfilling the criteria set out in the Act, but also to reduce the employment costs of those in this social group, which will increase their attractiveness in the labour market. Work without PIT is, of course, more in the pockets of young people, but it is also savings for employers, for whom such an employee is simply cheaper. It is also important that the beneficiaries of these solutions are often those who refuse to work with science on a daily basis, which makes it very difficult for them to achieve financial independence. These are people for whom the facilitation provided for in these regulations can provide an additional incentive to remain in our country, to start a career here or to continue it. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u23	Thank you. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Member of the... What kind of wheel are you from now on? [[Unaccomplicated.]] Member of the non-member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u24	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me put it this way, the bill that goes towards tax reduction is a law that goes in the right direction. There's nothing to hide. Lowering taxes is a good trend, because taxes are something that weighs the pockets of every Pole, young or old. Honestly, I only have one reservation for this bill. This reservation is that there is such a period in the life of a man, just in the life of a very young man when he can take up an economic activity. This is not just a form of activity, it is primarily learning responsibility, learning law, learning how to use the possibilities offered by the Polish State to obtain funds. Therefore, I am a little surprised - I probably know the reason - that young people who conduct business activities in the Republic are excluded from the law. I think, Prime Minister, that it would be a good thing if at this point you put a certain income ceiling for people up to the age of 26 who are engaged in business activities. Then there would probably be no doubt that everyone is talking about. I think it's $3000,000. PLN per year of income for the man who conducts business would be just right. On the other hand, we cannot exclude the initiative of taking up economic activity. As I say, it is one of the elements that teaches responsibility for its future, for the future of Poland, for economic activity. That's law, law, law and business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u25	Thank you very much. These were all Members who had been put forward for debate. Members have come forward to ask questions. We're moving on to that list right now. The time for questioning is 1 minute. The first question is asked by Mrs Alicia Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u26	Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you about the group that was voted out and ask for it. It's about a group of young people who didn't get a chance at zero tax at all, namely doctors. A doctor who finishes his studies and internship is 27 years old. As you know, at the age of 19, he seems to be a senior, and then he's six years of college and 13 months of internship. Why was this group completely left out? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you three questions. Firstly, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that you have failed to take into account our project of 2.5 years earlier. As the Prime Minister knows, and everyone in this House is sure to know, lost time never comes back, which is why time is most precious. [[Complicated. Then why didn't you?]] We've wasted that time. Our project was pro-entrepreneurial. Your project doesn't take that into account. I want to ask you about local governments. Do you respect the constitutional division of power? Why didn't you consider 1 billion 100,000? Self-government loss? By the words of the rapporteur, you say here that a small brick of local governments will be brought in. Maybe it's worth asking, discussing. You're in a hurry for some well-known reasons: elections are coming and you have to sell it properly. Is it true that a number of comments were made by entities such as the National Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Lewiatan, the Marshal's Office of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship or the association of entrepreneurs [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they didn't get the answers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u29	Thank you, Member. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask the P.I.S. about the consequences. Today we are talking about exempting people under the age of 26 from taxation, but remember that it is also the responsibility of the state to ensure solidarity between the generations. This is the country on March 22nd. You rejected two projects: pension without PIT and pension without tax. These projects involved 7.5 million Poles and Poles, pensioners, who collect starvation pensions, as 220 thousand. Poles and Poles receive a pension of PLN 1100 gross. Why did you vote consistently then? Why are you not ashamed of this list of disgraces for the fact that 237 Members of Law and Justice rejected the pension project without PIT? And today you think it's a different age group. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It can make you...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u31	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u32	...we won't remember those disgraceful behaviors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u33	Mr Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The fate of young people is very important, and hence the questions closely related to the project, so quickly prepared and perhaps not fully known. First question: Will this law also include self-employed people? This is extremely important, because it concerns a very large group of people. The second question concerns age. Is 26 years a constitutional record? By definition, young people are people up to the age of 40. At least that is the European definition of youth. Is there no discrimination here? The third question is whether the percentage of PIT for self-government will be increased so as not to lose the local government again through this law. The bill is good, necessary and interesting, but it cannot be done at the expense of the local government, and as we know, a significant percentage of tax [[♪ The bell ♪]] PIT's going to self-government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u35	Thank you. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Today, the Prime Minister speaks very well of young people, often complimenting them and stressing that this is a very important project, especially as young people listen to our discussions. This may be a very important project, but why so late, Prime Minister? Prime Minister! The truth is, young people can't buy it. Do you know why? Because you were telling the truth in 2013, at the Owl and Friends restaurant. Young people! Listen to what the Prime Minister said back then... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] ...on young people working: I see a dangerous phenomenon in a younger generation. Do nothing, make a lot of money. You'll be in... and digging ditches, and the other one will be pouring in. You'll be pleased. We will then, as people, have smaller companies, pensions and lower expectations. That's the truth, ladies and gentlemen. The truth was told by the Prime Minister in Owl and Friends, and you didn't do anything for four years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u37	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This project will result in the cost of life of young people at the age of 26, at the age of 27, increasing dramatically by the value of tax. And the question is: What kind of government intends to put in place mechanisms so that this does not involve a breakdown in the finances of young people? And if that's the case, it's pretty sure. I also wanted to ask: How will the government compensate for the loss of revenue for local governments? How many billions of zlotys will it be, and how much will the investment in local governments decrease? How much less roads, sidewalks, and schools will be built just because you won't make up for the loss of local income? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u39	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very good that the rulers express their willingness to help young people start their careers. It is only a pity that the proposed zero PIT tax for employees up to the age of 26, as one of the projects of the new PiS five, is part of the election campaign. Why are you so late? The draft law, in the opinion of experts, infringes the principles of equal treatment vis-à-vis the law and the right to equal treatment by public authorities as set out in Article. 32 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, because it provides for exemption from tax only for persons of a certain age, earning income from specific sources, without contracts for works and income from economic activities. Prime Minister! Is this a punishment for entrepreneurial young people? Do you think that dividing another social group into more or less [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this a good direction for the privileged? What about pensioners, pensions? When will he be exempt from retirement tax, Prime Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u41	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you about Polish entrepreneurship. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, kills, I repeat, kills the entrepreneurship of young people. Young people who are self - employed will not benefit from any relief. And when you start a business, you have to bear particularly high costs and high expenditures before you achieve anything. Why, I ask, do we not take into account the situation of young people who, as a result of many measures promoting entrepreneurship, have taken this decision? These people don't get any help. I think this is a big mistake, because many Poles traveling abroad are opening their own companies, and we are not giving them this chance. I ask you why, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u43	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! So what if you fire young people from one tax when their salaries and purchases are charged by you with a whole range of new charges of different kinds? So what if they don't pay PIT if they don't pay PIT? The progressive tax on renting apartments primarily concerns young people's achievements. The tax on financial institutions charges loans that they charge for a car, an apartment or a dream college. The increase in ZUS contributions really kills their creativity and entrepreneurship. You want to exempt young people from paying their PIT contributions until they're 25, but you don't include all self-employed. Not only will you not release them from paying this PIT, but in addition next year they will receive a 10% increase in ZUS contributions That's close to PLN 1,500 a year. Prime Minister, it cannot be that some young people will pay for exemption from the tax of other young people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u45	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! On the occasion of the proposed change, I would like to draw attention to a certain property of our tax system, i.e. the amount of the tax wedge calculated as the difference between the employer's cost and the net employee's remuneration. It doesn't change much depending on the amount of gross remuneration. If, following a useful project to reduce the tax burden on workers aged 26 years and over, further steps are planned to reduce the wedge in proportion, e.g. in the case of less earners? The gradual reduction of labour costs appears to be an important step if we want to achieve economic growth and enable entrepreneurs to invest in improving productivity. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u47	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Wargock.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Youth PIT Act is an expected law which will certainly have a positive impact on the employment status of young people. I would like to draw attention to another group of very young people, and I am asking the Prime Minister, the young people who are learning the profession, are students. They are in principle not covered by this law, having a broad understanding of tax law, because their wages for work are exempt from tax. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is possible to look at the salaries of young workers in a more favourable way. At the moment, these salaries amount to about PLN 200.300 per month depending on the year of study. These salaries are refunded from the Labour Fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it would be a very good solution if a young worker could also benefit from our good economic performance, which makes it very good for the income of the Labour Fund. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u49	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the law, namely the professional activation of young people to make it easier for them to enter the labour market, deserves support as much as possible, while my doubts concern the aforementioned scope of this law, especially its impact on local government budgets. As the rapporteur said, 11 billion will be charged to local governments, this is just a brick that should not be cared for. This, on the other hand, is another brick, ladies and gentlemen. I'll just remind you of the last brick, which is a raise for teachers. By the end of the year it will be a burden of another PLN 1 billion in the case of local governments. My doubts are raised by the fact that the local authorities are constantly burdened with all the solutions you are preparing. And now my question is: Is this conscious action? Is this really a deliberate and conscious weakening of the functioning of local governments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u51	Thank you. Mr Robert Majka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following question. I don't think the Prime Minister is leaving. I would very much ask the Prime Minister to tell me whether he has a concept of investing in young people who continue their studies and continue their studies. You can't see that in this project. And the second point: When the unemployment on the eastern wall is reduced, Prime Minister, in Podkarpacie, because there is simply unemployment in the range of 20 and 25%. I'm asking you to answer me, because this is a very urgent matter. I hope the Prime Minister isn't leaving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u53	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Bubula.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are a lot of questions here, especially from the opposition, about losses in the income of local governments related to the tax reduction for young people. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, Minister: How many local governments have gained in connection with good tax and economic policies of Law and Justice? [[Zero.]] How much has the revenue of the local government increased, the tax revenue of the local government due to the very good decisions of the Government of Law and Justice over the last 4 years? [[You're gonna talk to the local government.]] How many local governments have gained from reducing tax burdens for all Poles? How much will the tax burden on young people go away? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And what is the balance of this bill?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u55	Thank you. Mr Antoni Mężydło.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The reduction of direct taxes, or PIT, is a good solution, but this reduction has a certain disadvantage because of the fact that there is also an automatic increase in tax for another group as regards ZUS. The ZUS-owska contribution is also a direct tax. The reduction of direct taxes strengthens the competitiveness of the Polish economy due to the fact that labour costs are decreasing, but not all young people will be covered by it, because, as already noted here, people with higher education and above all, entrepreneurs who will be punished with a higher contribution from the Social Security Office will not be included. Hence all the doubts that have been expressed. This raises some doubts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope that this can be improved during the work to include these groups of young people as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u57	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At first, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his success in Brussels. I am even surprised that President Kaczyński did not greet you with flowers at the airport as Prime Minister Szydło greeted you. I think when they turn off the air conditioning in your office, you'll realize it wasn't a success, it was a huge failure. The question is, why are you pulling money from people who have taken the risk of doing their own business to buy voters' votes with this money and implement their electoral promises? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u59	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Why are you punishing local governments again? Will local governments be compensated for the losses resulting from this law? After all, these are our little homelands that carry out daily tasks that are closest to us. to us, residents of Poland. I am a young man, and I am in favour of relief for young people who work, but why have you left out businessmen? Many young people live on such principles. Are they worse? Why are young entrepreneurs Poles being punished? Second question: Prime Minister, who will bear the costs of this bill? This is rather a rhetorical question because entrepreneurs, all entrepreneurs, including young people, and local governments will pay. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u61	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! I have a question. On the Internet and in the media, the news is that next year the basic ZUS contribution is expected to increase by nearly PLN 1500, and in a strange way in the justification of the bill we read that young people who earn a minimum rate will gain nearly PLN 1500 next year after the entry into force of this law. So it does not turn out that you are preparing lex specialis for young people so that they simply do not feel that they will be increased the ZUS contribution? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u64	Dear Prime Minister, surrounded by a banquet of ministers. Would you please listen to the questions you have asked when you have referred and be at your disposal in the High House and not in your office? [[But there are ministers, right? They'll answer.]] But I don't see all the ministers who will answer on this. To the Prime Minister, the main question in this Chamber: Why do you divide young people? Why do you treat ambitious people who start their activities worse, and there is no relief for them? There's no relief for them. And a question. Why should the entrepreneur taking the initiative not receive any support? I am also surprised by Mr Janczyk's statement, who said that we have long to think about inheritance taxes and donations. ♪ When a foster family ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] or foster parents can spend money... [[Time's up.]] ...to make a donation, that's when you have to think about small amounts of money, and in this case, it's not there. Did the Prime Minister hear my question?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u65	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u66	Will the Prime Minister answer me and all the young people in Poland? Because that's what we're after. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u67	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So far, entrepreneurs have been interested in employing students in particular because they did not pay ZUS contributions from them, and they are the most expensive. At the moment, you are introducing a youth relief to the age of 26, stating that this applies only until the age of 26. Wouldn't it be more efficient to set a time limit for the end of the tax year? Then it could be accounted for, because everyone ends up another 26 years in a year, and I think it would improve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u69	Thank you. Mr Piotr Kaleta.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's been almost four years, and you might say you haven't learned anything. You can't even criticize us properly. I can already see the dissension, the dualism in your speech when President Schetyna is speaking and he will say that he is in favour of this programme, and perhaps in a moment Mr Grabiec will be performing and he will say that money has to be given back. It's just rhetoric that's beating out of your mouths. You just didn't learn anything. [[Question.]] But what do you expect? Simply weak students They don't learn anything. But the question is, if you insist. That's what your government is talking about, i.e. the shadow government, the shadow office, that from now on the Civic Platform will be in every village. Law and Justice are already there. And the question is, do you know that these proposals which are presented by the Law and Justice, at such meetings, in such places [[♪ The bell ♪]] They show up and they forge, and we're just realizing them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u71	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u72	Dear Marshal, High Seym! He is happy to say again today: we keep our word. Project: without PIT for young people is another good solution of the Law and Justice government, this time addressed to young Poles. The opposition, as usual, criticizes by searching for various arguments. They say we're in favour, but... And I'll remind you of a young man's conversation with, thank God, I've already been president of the Platform. I'm still young, but I'm gonna want to work, and what are you gonna do to get me to work in Poland so I don't leave? And what did he hear in his reply? Change your job and take credit. [[Applause]] Platform, this was your recipe for young Poles. Get out of the country, change jobs, take credit. That's the kind of offer you had for the young. [[That's not true!]] Today you have the chance to remain silent and support a good project, a project that gives young people a chance. The law and justice say to the young people: stay in the country, we want you to be able to develop. We are talking to young people: go back to Poland, we are here [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're waiting for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u73	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. Indeed, this shows how important this project is and how much it causes emotions. It is particularly important to ask how this relationship is conceived between those who are employed on the basis of an employment contract and, on the other hand, those who are engaged in an economic activity. And these questions about the treatment by the Government of Law and Justice of people who start business, and questions about what incentives are for these people, maybe the TVN journalist, the TOK-FM journalist, also a very good economic publicist Mr.Rafal Hirsch, who writes: "I founded the company in January and I have not paid a penny of ZUS to this day. For the first six months, only NFZ is paid. From July I will pay PLN 210, not PLN 1500, but with the NFZ, together, 550. And so relievedly for the next two years. This is the answer to the question of how the Government of Law and Justice treats starters. If the TVN authority, TOK-FM really shows that it's very simple, it's easy to start [[Applause]] For people who start business, there's no point... [[That's good. That's good.]] ...in a different way to answer these questions. Briefly related to questions about local government units. If we look at the data on how much income... [[Voice from the hall: 3 million people employed.]] ...from PIT, from the tax on individuals, how much of CIT went to local government between 2015 and 2018, because these are the last years that have been closed, we have an increase of more than 33% in the case of PIT, 37% in the case of CIT. So we are dealing with the revenue of local government, which increased by PLN 15 billion in total between 2015 and 2018. And this is the answer to the questions that the Government of Law and Justice has done to ensure better collection, to guarantee economic growth. As a result, the tax revenue of the local government increased. In this case, all actions that help young people to increase their consumption will also indirectly affect the rise in tax revenues. There is no doubt, therefore, that these revenues will reach local government units sooner or later, as from 2015 up to today, they reach these units thanks to the participation of local governments in public tax revenues. There's been a lot of questions about the cavities. There was also a question of how the government supports innovation. Let me remind you that the 5% IP Box is a solution that allows young people to start business more easily, especially in this important area of innovation. I think that is also the answer to this question, what the Law and Justice Government is doing in support of innovative start-ups. This is not just a relief for ZUS, it is also a lower taxation of innovative activities. And that's the recipe - you have to use all these solutions pointlessly, hit the right demand. This solution can therefore be considered to be worth the support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u75	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote after the break. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 33 hrs. 11 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on income tax on individuals, the Law on family benefits and the Act on healthcare benefits financed by public funds. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 3551 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 388 Members voted. For it was 2, against - 385, 1 Member abstained. [[But how's that?]] [[Voice from the room: Two votes.]] [[Voice from the room: Rysiek.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred the proposal to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. [[Applause]] I propose on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report within a time limit allowing the draft to be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws (Prints Nos 3379 and 3514). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 12 June this year. a meeting was held between the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Public Finance, during which a government draft law amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws, print No 3379 was examined. The joint committees discussed in detail the various articles and proposed amendments in the draft law. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice tabled 10 amendments to the draft. All amendments were accepted by the joint committees. On behalf of the joint committees, I recommend the High House to adopt this draft Print Act No 3514 with amendments. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u77	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And here's the riddle. There is a representative of the Law and Justice, but I do not know who of you has volunteered. Mr Andrzej Noblechta. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws, print no. 3379. The need to amend the Law of 17 June 1966 on enforcement proceedings in the administration in the section on enforcement costs arises from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal delivered on 28 June 2016. The Constitutional Tribunal found that the article was incompatible. 64 § 1 point 4 and § 6 Laws based on Art. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is a principle of the prohibition of excessive interference in connection with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 84 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 64 § 8 the Act in so far as it does not provide for the possibility of reducing the fee referred to in Article. 64 § 1 point 4 of that law, and the handling fee in the event of termination of the proceedings due to the voluntary payment of the enforceable debt after enforcement of the action resulting from the article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is a principle of the prohibition of excessive interference in connection with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 84th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Taking into account the guidelines of the Constitutional Tribunal, the draft amends the rules governing enforcement costs in a comprehensive manner by establishing new rules for the calculation and collection of them. The joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Public Finance on 12 June this year examined in detail the government draft of the bill, during which Parliamentary Club Law and Justice tabled 10 amendments. The first two amendments were clear. Amendment 3 introduces a general regulation on how documents drawn up in electronic form can be authenticated. Amendment 4 is to add a more detailed definition relating to the scope of the information contained in the request for re-introduction of administrative execution. Amendment 5 gives new wording § Article 2 64a Act in order to avoid a legislative glitch. Amendment 6 consists in replacing the words "from day to day' in Article. 1 in point 22. Amendment 7 consists in adapting the Article. 135 to the amendments resulting from the repeal of Article. 64d and addition of new provisions in Article. 64ca, Art. 64cb, Art. 64ce and Art. 64a regulating these enforcement costs. Amendment 8 consists in deleting the first sentence, which will allow enforcement and protection proceedings before the date of entry into force of the law not only of the first sentence of Article. 60 § 1, but also the second sentence, which is not subject to the amendments provided for in the project in question. Amendment 9 aims to harmonise charging arrangements. Amendment 10 consists in changing the words "after the date of entry into force' to "after the entry into force'. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill, together with the amendments adopted during the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u79	Thank you. And I invite Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u80	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws. The draft law is a response to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, according to which the provisions of the Enforcement Act in the administration do not adequately determine the maximum amount of the enforcement fee and the handling fee, and to the extent that they do not provide for the possibility of reducing the enforcement fee and the handling fee for the remission of proceedings due to the voluntary payment of the enforcement fee after enforcement, are incompatible with the Constitution. At the same time, the Court pointed out that, for the proper implementation of the judgment, the legislator should determine the maximum amount not only of those fees but also of other enforcement fees, and how these fees should be calculated in the event of redemption of the proceedings in connection with the voluntary payment of the enforcement fee after enforcement. Thus, the proposed regulation provides for the setting of two amounts of the handling fee, regardless of the amount of the debt covered by the implementing title, collected separately from each implementing title, the introduction of a enforcement fee levied in proportion to the cash being enforced, the reduction in the amount of the enforcement fee in case of voluntary payment of the enforcement fee, the non-imposition of enforcement costs for a creditor operating within a national budgetary unit or a state budgetary unit, the extension of the enforcement expenditure catalogue, the amendment of the conditions for the remission of enforcement costs and the payment of such costs in instalments, the introduction of provisions governing the limitation of enforcement costs and the cancellation of the enforcement fee, and the modification of procedures for the reopening of administrative executions resulting from the amended provisions on enforcement costs. During the committee's work, it was pointed out that this project actually provides for a significant increase in costs in enforcement proceedings in the administration. This project raises all costs and hopes that the fees are not separated from the real expenditure incurred by the authorities. However, given that the draft is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, we will support this proposal together with the amendments of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u81	Thank you. Please, Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz.15. There is no Member. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws, prints no. 3379 and 3514. Of course, the original draft law itself, as a government project, goes against the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, implementing this judgment. It is about the non-compliance of the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration with the article. 2 constitutions. This is to determine the maximum amount of enforcement fees and handling fees respectively, and the possibility of reducing these fees for example. the termination of proceedings. As regards the overall conclusion of the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, several substantive amendments were indeed tabled. They were accepted by the committee. The comments of the Legislative Bureau, i.e. editorial and legislative amendments, were also taken into account. The conclusions following the committee's report are, firstly, an increase in the costs of enforcement, both the handling fee and the enforcement fee, and of course the second condition that the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out, the possibility or the possibility of reducing those charges. In the case of rates of handling fee for each instrument, it will be PLN 40 for the initiation of enforcement proceedings, but when administrative execution has already been initiated, this amount shall be increased to PLN 100. On the other hand, the enforcement fee shall be levied in proportion to the funds enforced, i.e. 10% the amount of funds enforced but not more than 40 000. zł. There is also a condition for reducing, and here, I would say, the project meets the expectations - if there is a voluntary payment of both the handling fee and the enforcement fee, these values decrease by 50%. My club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u83	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first and only question so far. Time - one and a half minutes. Vote for Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u84	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to return to the question I have already asked, but I would like to clarify this. Namely, is the treatment of a handling charge exceeding the actual handling costs as a form of educational sanction, so to speak, which is of preventive importance, within the limits of legal proceedings, within its limits? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u85	Thank you. Please, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is about the handling fee. This fee does not exceed the value which results from the obligation to carry out certain tasks relating to the initiation of the entire enforcement procedure. So these figures are not excessive, in the sense that they are estimated to cover part of the costs, but it's not that they cover all the costs that we can estimate that burden the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u87	Thank you, Minister. I don't see Mr. Nobleman. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on the system of development institutions (prints 3479 and 3533). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee. Has the Member shown up? I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 55 hours 12]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 3 of the agenda. I would very much like to ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 13 June this year. a joint meeting was held between the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development, during which a government draft law on the system of development institutions was discussed, print No 3479. It is an innovative law which refers to the idea of creating a system of development institutions operating in many countries of the European Union. The joint committees discussed the various articles in detail. The Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice tabled seven amendments to this proposal, which were adopted by the joint committees. On behalf of the joint committees, I recommend the High House to adopt this draft Print Act No 3533 with amendments. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u89	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law on the system of development institutions, print No 3479. During the first reading of this draft law, the purpose of its adoption was set. I would like to remind you that this law is intended to regulate the rules and strengthen cooperation between the main institutions of the State implementing measures for economic and social development through the use of economic instruments. The aim will be to adopt mechanisms to ensure coordination and complementarity of the following entities: Polish Development Fund SA, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, Insurance Corporation of Export Credits SA, Polish Investment and Trade Agency SA and Industrial Development Agency SA. The proposed concept of establishing a system of development institutions operates in many European Union countries: France, the UK, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Bulgaria, Spain, Hungary, Latvia and Slovakia. At the joint meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on 13 June this year. was discussed in detail the draft law from print No 3479. At the Parliamentary Club meeting, Law and Justice tabled seven amendments. The first amendment aims to add a provision which sets out in general the tasks of the Council of the Polish Development Fund. The second amendment aims to clarify the procedure for updating the strategy. The third amendment allows disclosure of information covered by professional secrecy within the meaning of this law at the request of the President of the CSO. Amendment 4 is more specific. In the event of an increase in costs for contractors performing a contract under a public contract, these entrepreneurs will be able to apply for a change in remuneration due to an increase in the cost of performance of the contract. Amendment 5 aims to clarify that the provisions of the Commercial Companies Code apply to mergers of companies in scope which are not regulated by the Act. The sixth amendment aims to clarify that the financial support provided by the National Capital Fund S.A. applies to existing provisions when a subsidiary is replaced by the National Capital Fund. Amendment 7 introduces the following Article. 39 (1) (a) 3: the authority competent to monitor the use of the expenditure limit referred to in paragraph 3. 1 and the implementation of the corrective mechanism referred to in paragraph 1. 2 is the Minister responsible for State budget matters. The Law and Justice Club will support this bill, along with the amendments, in the votes. Thank you very much. At the same time, on behalf of the club, I am placing an amendment on the hands of your marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u91	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Platform... [[In a minute, he's on his way.]] In 1 minute, he's running. So what? [[Can I have a word with Mr. Grabowski?]] Mr. Grabowski's not here either. I don't know how to make your waiting time more comfortable right now. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[So, am I supposed to talk?]] Then I would like to invite the Member. [[I'm the one you're waiting for? Impossible. I'm so sorry.]] Well, we look forward to seeing the Member very impatiently. I'd really like to ask the clubs to watch their speaking time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sorry about the delay. I'm gonna start by saying that this bill is another manifestation of the centralistic mania of the ruling crew. Under the guise of creating a coordinated system and an integrated approach to development policy, the government sets up a Group of the Polish Development Fund. Why? To ensure that the set-up group pursues a strategy consistent with the economic policy of the government. The resolutions and criticisms of the bill were submitted by employees' organisations, entrepreneurs and even the Legislative Council at the President of the Council of Ministers. You want to control media, culture, local governments, and now it's time for a centrally controlled economy. The group will be composed of: Polish Development Fund, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, Corporate Insurance Export Credits, Polish Investment and Trade Agency, Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. In the drafting of the bill, we stressed that our concerns were raised, among others. how to proceed with the bill, the lack of consultation, but also the credibility of the new entity and the submission of the new entity of political power. We have also paid attention to the financial implications of the adopted regulations. Although the law does not cause, it will not have financial consequences for the state budget by 2025, but already in the years 2026 and 2029 the financial consequences will amount to PLN 0.5 billion, because these are the costs of handling issued government bonds. Nor did we get an answer to the questions, the reservations contained in the opinion of the Legislative Council in front of the President of the Council of Ministers. The Legislative Board questions whether there is a need for legal regulation of mechanisms for the coordination of bodies independent from each other and supervised by the various ministers responsible for administrative departments. Legislative regulation does not seem necessary to achieve the intended objective of coordination. The actions of the stakeholders themselves may create coordination mechanisms. The Council also asks about the legal nature of the strategy and how it should be placed in the system of sources of law and critically refers to the possibility of assessing the implementation of the strategy. Finally, I would like to quote two parts of the two positions submitted in the context of the public consultation, because only two positions were put forward in the framework of these consultations: the position of the NSZZ and the position of the Confederation of Leviathan. In his position, the NSZZ "Solidarity' expresses a strong protest in the absence of a draft law to be submitted for consultation. The national Commission stresses that this is another example of the failure to respect the rights of representative trade union organisations to assess draft legal acts in the field of trade union tasks. Quote: This is an unacceptable and gross violation of the obligation to consult draft legal acts. The Confederation of Leviatan raises a fundamental reservation as to how the bill is to be proceded, negatively assesses the subject of the amendment and notes that there are still a number of concerns that require unnotified legislative intervention three months before the new institution is incorporated into the group of the largest employers. In view of the above opinions and reservations, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition maintains a negative recommendation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u93	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u94	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I remember when at the first reading of this bill concerning the system of institutions supporting economic development in Poland I mentioned that the concept of the Kukiz15 movement is to simplify certain institutional issues, i.e. to rebureaucratise, reduce the number of jobs and jobs, including in the public sphere, for the private sector. Even from the data of the CSO, we have record low unemployment, and the hands and heads for work are needed today especially in the private sector. Unfortunately, in the course of the work on this bill, you have not listened to this voice or had any reflection on it. The aim of this law is to create a kind of framework for cooperation between the so-called. development institutions. Well, I understand this, because it would be actually unreasonable and illogical, if several institutions whose aim is to promote the economic development of Poland were to operate on the basis of the so-called operation. giving principalities, where every prince or institution or ministry acts in its own direction. Uniformization here is a good idea that deserves support. Only the devil is in the details again. The Commissioner has just mentioned the issue of the impact on the state budget. For several years this impact will not be achieved because the obligation to repay the bonds that will be issued will not be enforced until 6 or 7 years later. Does it not turn out, then, that by means of this law you are really looking for an additional source of debt of the state budget and thus - debt of Poles? I think it would be fair if the projector stood here, came out and said: yes, we are looking for additional sources of debt of Poles, or: no, we are not looking for this, we are not looking for additional sources of debt of Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! Since this project, as we already know, has been tabled, an amendment has also been tabled at the second reading stage, it will be sent to the committee. So let's get him back to the committee, discuss him a little bit more on the committee. As a result, in the course of voting, the Kukiz Club will express its position on this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u95	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak presented his position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If anyone else wants to sign up, you're welcome. If not, I'm closing the list. Time - one and a half minutes. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u96	I don't see the minister, but I'd like to... Good morning, welcome. Minister! I would like to understand this from a practical point of view. Give me three examples of how this bill will work. Because you have a majority, this bill will certainly be passed, we are aware of that. As if you had given me three examples of the operation: a big business, a small business and an investment that you want to make, as you have announced, with this system... I'm talking about government investment. How's this gonna work in these three areas? I'll tell you what my question is. Well, many representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises ask me whether the money that has so far been targeted at specific support programmes, in those institutions that they will create, will be reduced or increased. How is what's designed so far planned going to work? Explain it to me from the practical point of view, so that I can give them an honest answer at meetings with entrepreneurs so they don't care, because it won't be enough that the government won't lay down, I'm sorry for the colloquiality, the paws on all the money that will be in all these institutions, and it won't use them according to political needs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, as a classic would say, and an understandable, well-founded issue is the creation of such a framework for systemic cooperation between development institutions in order to maximise the synergy of their activities in order to implement a strategy for responsible development. But I'd like to ask you something else. The most serious barrier to the development of Polish companies is the chronic lack of serious investment capital and innovation, which I do not want to adjective for obvious reasons. So my question is: What changes can be made in this regard with the proposed solution? I am particularly interested in how in simulations, which the resort carries out, it is possible to improve the innovation and complexity of the production carried out in Poland, because this degree of complexity translates into export, and both production and export, which is obvious, translate into building the welfare of the Polish society. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u99	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Noblechta.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In a speech by Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, I heard that this project is a form of centralisation of development institutions which so far functioned in Poland. In my opinion, this is the creation of a coherent, consolidated institution that will pursue common objectives for existing actors. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister whether this form of consolidation in Poland of these various entities is a Polish phenomenon, or whether similar consolidations are already taking place in European Union countries, there are already similar examples, and how many countries such mergers have taken place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u101	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! At the previous meeting of the Sejm, a number of comments and reservations were raised during the first reading of the project, expressing the hope and conviction that such a centralisation system could be abandoned. Mr President doesn't exactly like that word, but it's true. At the time, however, we thought that the opinions of institutions such as Leviatan or the association of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, or many other entities, which indicated that there was no need to regulate and write rigidly the actions that could be regulated in a way known in Poland, effectively applied - in the form of an agreement, in the form of a certain regulation, which is the cooperation of these entities for the sake of the development of entrepreneurship and for the development of the country. Unfortunately, this did not work out, and I must express my dissatisfaction that no right or very right votes are taken into account. It's just a course of action and you can say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not gonna do any good. So I'm so sorry. Tell me why the Ministry is so hermetic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u103	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question from an entrepreneur's point of view: What will change for them? Will it be easier, or will it be faster, or will there be more money? Whether there will be more possibilities thanks to this harmonisation, or perhaps - as a result of this codification, it will be actually limited in order not to say: eliminated, diversity, as each institution of development had its own specific characteristics... [[Help, yes, and support.]] ...their area where they've been operating so far and they're still working. If this whole system of development support institutions is integrated, will it not turn out that someone might lose? I am thinking primarily of entrepreneurs, because Kukiz.15 sees this mainly in the perspective and according to the optics of entrepreneurs who are such silent heroes in Poland who conduct business activities. But I'm sure you all know that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u105	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr.Marek Niebłużak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that at least two or even three questions are actually so thematic... [[Closer.]] ...closer that you can refer to them together. I'm gonna start with what sounded like the last question. Please note that we do not repeal specific provisions concerning individual development institutions, institutions which - I would like to stress - have been in the domain of public institutions or agencies or companies - or a state bank in the case of BGK - state institutions for years. In this sense, this bill is not something new, it is not a novelty. These institutions are state tools for conducting economic policy. What is the novelty of this law? Attempting to coordinate, so to speak, there are no unagreed actions between them. Here is a comparison to the breakup of the district, to the district princes who act independently. It's picturesque, but it gives away the essence of it. It is precisely this point that there should be no district break-up, but that it should be a coordinated action so that we can achieve synergies, because on the public side, mutual competition is not positive, because it usually means a certain waste of public funds. This is the fundamental objective of the proposed law and this is also the justification for it. I would like to point out that cooperation based on a law-based cooperation agreement should not be opposed. This agreement is and it will continue. Agreement in the sense of an agreement between the institutions. Therefore, this cooperation will both require cooperation at the level of the agreement and will be complemented by cooperation based on these provisions if the Sejm and the Senate adopt the bill and the President sign it. So many general remarks. We count on this - I refer to the OSR annexed to the Act in this respect - that the solutions proposed in the Act will, indirectly, of course, because this project does not directly affect individual entrepreneurs only state institutions, but indirectly affects innovative companies by providing financing for start-up and development, increasing the potential for financing innovative venture capital ideas, so-called. venture capital, for a total amount of PLN 3/4 billion over the next 4 years of the Act, the development of an ecosystem to promote an innovation culture, among others. by providing access to expertise related to the ecosystem for the development of innovation, human capital development, access to skilled personnel and networks, both for entities investing in innovative ideas and innovative companies, and support for foreign expansion. I would still like to stress one thing which was said in the first question by the Member. We do not interfere, we do not cut or modify the budgets of individual institutions. So if someone uses it today, for example. with support or with PARP assistance, very often they are entrepreneurs who use PARP funds or e.g. with the support of PAIH exports, it should not feel this law directly. Indirectly yes, because we want to coordinate the activities of these institutions, but it is not that we modify, e.g., let's give for it, now the PARP will have less money, and PAIH more, these are not such shifts. From the perspective of an entrepreneur using the PARP or PAIH fund, there should be no such negative effects. Mr President asked what it looks like in other countries. Of course, we, if you can say so, are not the first to bring in something like this. whether they are trying to create such a system of development institutions. It seems to me that the most important examples are, of course, Germany and France. Most importantly, because these are very large European economies and capitalism there, so to speak, it has grown deeper into roots. In Germany it is the German Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau, which, as far as I know, is currently the largest development institution in the world. It was created after World War II as part of Marshall's plan: 80% of state control, 20% national German trade unions. It employs 6,000. persons. As far as its assets are concerned, there is nothing to be deceived about, they are much larger assets than those held by the Polish institutions, because this is 500 billion euros, and there is also a statutory basis, by the way. As far as the French system is concerned, interestingly, he is even older, because it dates back to just after Napoleonic times, the French State appointed him in the beginning to support the saving and construction of French capital, that was in 1816. There is a deposit bank and then an investment bank is attached to this system. Currently, the consolidated value of the assets of the bank is EUR 170 billion. The bank has 130,000. employees, which makes it one of the oldest institutions and one of the largest development institutions in the world. So these are some of the patterns that we've looked at or referred to by shaping this new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Our meetings are attended by members of the rural hostels' circles in Sarnówek Wielki and Nietulisko Wielki, members of Gorzyczana's vocal band and winners of the Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie Championships in classical chess. Welcome back, folks. [[Applause]] I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Nobletta, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I wanted to thank all the clubs for their commitment to these two committees, because we worked for hours, there were a lot of questions, there were a lot of doubts. The Minister used some of these comments on an ongoing basis and we made editorial and stylistic adjustments in the draft. I think this project will be good for development. For this job, even for the difference in opinions... The professor also spoke and made a lot of remarks to the Minister. I wanted to thank you very much. We'll see, I think, in the years to come, how it's gonna work out. Having examples from many countries of the European Union that this consolidation has a good effect, I think Poland will also succeed in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u109	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u110	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club PSL-UED, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the system of development institutions. There will be a system of development institutions called the Polish Development Fund Group, which will provide an effective mechanism of coordination and supervision of the entire system of development institutions. The aim is to provide support for the implementation of development programmes adopted by the Council of Ministers. The group will focus on five key areas of activity: - investments, with the leading role of the Polish Development Fund (PFR); - banking, with the leading role of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (BGK); - export insurance, with the leading role of the Export Credit Insurance Corporation (KUKE); - foreign trade, with the leading role of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency (PAIH); - the development of entrepreneurship, with the leading role of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development (PARP). The Council of the Group of the Polish Development Fund is planned, to which the presidents of the development institutions of the system will enter. The Council's task will be to coordinate the activities of development institutions in order to ensure the sustainable and sustainable development of the country. According to the project, the National Capital Fund will be merged with the subsidiary of the Polish Development Fund SA (PFR Ventures sp. z o.o.) specialized in carrying out similar tasks, i.e. providing venture capital financing. PFR Ventures will entrust itself with the completion of the tasks of KFK SA. The PSL-UED Club is against design solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u111	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government draft law amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws (Prints No 3474 and 3534). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u112	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure in print No. 3534 on the government draft law amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws, print No. 3474. The Sejm at its 82nd meeting on 12 June 2019, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Public Finance Commission and the Infrastructure Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 13 June 2019, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out that four amendments were tabled during the committee meeting, of which three were recognised by the members of both the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Public Finance. One of the amendments did not receive this support and was tabled as a minority request. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u113	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present to you the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government draft law amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws, seym prints No 3474 and 3534. At the last meeting, we presented the spirit of this law. We talked about how much she was needed. Here we have argued how this gray zone, when it comes to motor fuels, has been limited, we have presented this. However, the risk and scale of irregularities in the area of fuel oils should also be limited. From that debate we remember that these regulations, these corrections, these clarifications can give our budget up to PLN 100 million a year. What is important - I would like to emphasise this once again - is that there is now an obligation to carry out operations to monitor the transport of fuel oils if they are carried in excess of 500 litres. We still have that adjustment today. The solution is therefore only an extension of the existing circle of operators, and most entrepreneurs know these regulations. On the other hand, for natural persons not engaged in business activities that have not so far been covered by these arrangements, their entry into force - here again I would like to emphasise - will not involve additional reporting in the transport and marketing monitoring system, as this obligation will rest on the operators who ship fuel oil. The primary objective of the regulation is to protect the financial interests of the State. The envisaged IT solutions, as well as the introduction of the possibility of submitting registration documents by paper, with a view to people who do not have access to the Internet, are designed to reduce the burden and facilitate the completion of these formalities. By means of the possibility for tax authorities to verify the data contained in the simplified registration, the risk on the part of the operator supplying fuel oil is reduced. In addition, fuel oil trading is covered by a system for monitoring the carriage and marketing of means of transport equipped with a GPS system that allows monitoring the route of transport. All these things that we discussed at the previous sitting were confirmed at the meeting of the two joint committees. These amendments, which were tabled by the government party, were accepted. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the Law with these corrections and these clarifications. We believe that this is a much-needed bill that will improve, seal the trading of fuel oils, so we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u115	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws, print No 3474 and 3534. According to the declaration of the designer, the purpose of the proposed law is to seal the tax system for the trading of fuel oil and diesel fuel intended for fuel purposes and other liquid fuel fuels which, due to their use for fuel purposes, are subject to a reduced excise duty. The stated aim of the law is also to reduce administrative burdens for entrepreneurs, although it must be said that this is a side objective. It seems that such a legislative initiative should involve a dissemination of knowledge in society about the proposed changes. The design of the proposed rules may lead to the conclusion that the sales of fuel oils will be burdened with the burden of informing about the new rules, as they will be affected by the greatest consequences of possible non-compliance, including by other operators. The first effect of the new legislation is the need for the oil user to make a declaration containing, inter alia, an indication of the place where the heating equipment is located and the estimated quantity of fuel oils consumed in the calendar year. The absence of any minimum volume limit for the monitoring of the turnover of fuel oils should be assessed negatively, except for the quite laconic statement in the justification of the project that the malfunctions in the trading of fuel oils justify the extension of the operation of the SENT system. It has not been clarified how even small deliveries will prevent large-scale irregularities from being covered by monitoring. In view of the principle of proportionality, which requires State authorities to use only such measures as are necessary to achieve a specific objective, and the fact that public authorities should achieve the objective at the least cost for that State and individual individuals, it should be considered that the rules introduced are disproportionate to the expected effects. It is difficult to conclude that irregularities in the acknowledgement of receipt by the recipient of several litres of fuel oil as regards the absence of closure of the SENT notification justify the imposition of a fine of 5 000 on the seller. zł. It's just a disproportionately high punishment. The penalties imposed should be proportionate to the infringements found and the project does not take this into account. The lack of further reflection by the authorities on the imposition of penalties on existing rules is already evidenced by judicial and administrative case law. The practice of the authorities indicates that current penalties for irregularities found are imposed as if automatically regulated by the Act. The authorities do not care that this may result in the end of business activity by the trader. We positively assess the objectives of the law, agree with the need for action in this area, but do not accept the shortcomings of the regulation that I have allowed you to present. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u117	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Robert Mordak, the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u118	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws, print No 3474 and 3534. The principles of this law generally lead to an objective which we cannot oppose, because it is about sealing the system which causes the danin to be returned to the State in connection with the marketing of fuels. Perhaps it would be worth pointing out that a child with a bath had already been fired. At one time, private consumers were promised, but also to the public, that if they were to convert boilers and supply fuel oil, it would be beneficial for them. The point was that fuel oil was much cheaper at the time of these intentions. Later it turned out that the State had reflected, because some dishonest companies started using this gap in the law to make fuel oil a diesel oil. No solutions have been put in place to protect these small consumers in particular from the fraud and ailments that the State has caused by actually aligning the price of fuel oil with diesel. Of course, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of these changes, but we also request that we look at the case and consider some compensation for those small operators who are at risk of ailments due to the fact that the fuel oil has ceased to be fuel oil and has become a de facto diesel regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u119	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u120	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats is in favour, as at first reading, of continuing the legislative procedure as regards the actions outlined and in the details to be taken in the area that will allow for sealing and eliminating irregularities in the calculation of amounts that should be entered into the state budget. We have always been and we are in favour of businesses doing business, regardless of the area, entity or object of their activity, being accounted for properly, fairly and in accordance with the legal provisions in force. Here we are dealing with an extension of the previously adopted law on monitoring the transport of fuels. The extension concerns quantities below 500 litres and those customers who consume fuel oil for heating purposes most often in their property, in their homes, in their buildings. As I said, we are in favour of ordering this issue, but, as at first reading, reflections are aroused and we are asking ourselves whether these quantities used by these entities over the course of the year are such quantities that, if there is any failure or inaccuracies in the record-keeping process - both by the sender and by the recipient - they must result in the imposition of a penalty, as my previous speaker mentioned, the honourable professor mentioned, 5 000. zł. This is the penalty that would be reduced, because the proposal and the amendment that were adopted in the committee and presented by the applicant are talking about the imposition of a penalty of 90,000. Evil, so a request for caution. After all, it is about distribution, economic operators, ours, which pay taxes and from which we create and raise funds for many areas that are financed from this budget, as well as the fate and sense of justice of the recipient, the normal user of such a house or property, for which we cannot assume that with premeditated consent or wrongly, he wrongly fills certain documents to obtain a certain advantage. Hence the request for caution, yet to consider it, and undoubtedly also to vote later, or to agree to this request by a minority to reduce this penalty to 5 000. zł. In addition, the deadlines within which notifications may still be made in paper form shall be those from which the electronic marketing of information will apply. We will take a stand in the course of the vote. I think there will be an agreement here and a reduction in the amount of the alleged penalty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u121	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested bill raises the following question: Will the obligation on the recipient to confirm in the electronic system the time and volume of the supply of fuel involve the need for him to have the appropriate computer equipment with access to the Internet, or will the operation be carried out by the supplier's device? Each of these options has different consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u123	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the number of entities covered by the registration obligation, is the period of entry into force of the legislation sufficient and is an information campaign planned to familiarise businesses and consumers with the new regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u125	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about international solutions, because this question has not yet been asked. How is our amendment, how does this amendment of the law apply to regulations in other countries in this part of Europe? Are we a forerunner? Are we the leader in these changes, or are we just adapting to European standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u127	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill, which concerns the amendment of the Law on the monitoring of certain goods, falls within the broader scope of the Government of Law and Justice, which consists in the transfer of responsibility, which the State has so far held, as regards the search for those persons who commit offences that operate on the market and behave in an uncompetitive manner, to honest entrepreneurs. Now honest entrepreneurs bear additional administrative, financial costs to show that their business is fair. And that's what it's used for, among other things. That bill. The criminal measures provided for in the Act are disproportionate to what is regulated. And I must say that here, however, the Government of Law and Justice should change this policy. The policy of creating fair conditions of competition must take into account the active activities of the State in seeking, tracking and punishing those who oppose these rules. On the other hand, this draft law imposes additional obligations on honest entrepreneurs, and this fight against the grey zone we agree on cannot mean and cannot justify such a procedure, i.e. imposing additional obligations on honest costs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] complete cessation of the use of other mechanisms that the State has. And the question to the Government of Law and Justice, to the Minister: When will you really start actively looking for these dishonest ones, but not at the expense of honest entrepreneurs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u129	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Walczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u130	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, High Izbo! Thank you very much for these questions relating to the very important law, in our opinion, because concerning the next stage of sealing in the field of liquid fuels. Answering specific questions - the first question is Mr Piotr Pyzik's question as to whether the imposition of obligations will involve the need for computer equipment or Internet connection. I reply immediately that we have tried as little as possible to burden both entrepreneurs and natural persons who may be recipients of fuel oils by applying these regulations. Therefore, the solutions adopted mean that none of the recipients will have to have computer equipment or internet connection. The delivery confirmation will follow on the supplier's equipment using a unique PIN code that will hold each customer. I would therefore stress that this does not necessarily involve any costs incurred by the customers of fuel oil, which will be subject to monitoring. As regards the question about vacathio legis, the transitional period when recipients and suppliers will be able to use the old system of paper declarations, I would like to draw attention to the issue which has been resounding here all the time during the presentation of the club positions by the honourable ladies and gentlemen, the issue of sealing the system. I stress once again that this is a law that is aimed primarily at the digital society. We depart from paper documents, which were actually a heavy burden, also a financial burden, for those who had to fulfill it and later for 5 years to store it, but nevertheless we want to do it in an evolutionary way, so we have adopted a very long transitional period, because, I stress, until 31 March 2020. At this time, of course, information campaigns, information campaigns are planned, and I will say that they are already underway. This law has been very intensively consulted with associations that bring together suppliers of fuel oil. In Poland we have two large associations representing the general liquid fuel industry. These associations have already started an information campaign for their members, so that there is absolutely no fear that this information will not reach these people for such a long time. I stress once again that these responsibilities are actually incumbent on suppliers, not on recipients, and therefore there is no risk that this pool of people to whom this information has to be reached is very large. In fact, this applies to a relatively small segment of entities specialising in this industry, which have called for the introduction of these rules precisely because of fair competition, because they want to rid the market of unfair entities. As for the question of whether such a system exists somewhere. It can be said that Poland is the forerunner here. Indeed, there is a system similar to that of properties in Hungary, but I stress that it is a system based on outdated technology of bouncers, i.e. a little equivalent of our viaTOLL system. Our system is based primarily on a unique technology that everyone downloads for free, uploads into a smartphone and can use it. It can therefore be said that we are a precursor both in Europe and in the world. Let me be clear that this system raises great interest in other countries. Many times I have participated in various meetings such as the Visegrad Group and I know that our colleagues from neighbouring countries are very interested in this system and are also considering introducing it. I can also tell you today: just today was the presentation of a report on the grey zone by one of the United Nations agencies. This agenda clearly praises this system, I will say more, and praises the amendment that the High House is discussing today. So we can see that even the United Nations appreciates the potential that this bill has. Finally, the last question, by Mr Mirosław Suchon, concerning the issue of punishment. I have already said the same in a high committee meeting, and I would like to stress this once again: this punishment, which is potentially imposed, does not concern fuel oil. That 10,000. zloty is a penalty, a potential penalty, in the case of the introduction of provisions relating to LPG - a regulation is being examined - and it concerns the writing of meters; the aim is not to avoid monitoring through the SENT system. Once again, this punishment, 10,000. zł, not due to lack of analysis, only this results from the value of the potential autocister of the standard LPG station in Poland, which has two tanks. The reduction in public debt is just around 10,000. zł. This is a fundamental principle, which is always accepted in every country to fight economic crime - economic criminals cannot pay for illegal activities. If this punishment is less than 10,000. zł, it is very simple, criminals will continue to be profitable because they will pay it as part of their operations, you can say, and they will still make a profit. That's why the government is standing up to keep that amount. I stress once again: this will not make it worthwhile not to make a supplementary notification in the form of writing LPG counters - but this does not apply to entrepreneurs who operate on the fuel oil market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u131	Thank you, Minister. I invite the rapporteur of the committee of Andrzej Costowniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u132	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much, Minister, for the draft print law 3474, which is one of many elements of the entire system. I think this has also been noticed by the Members of the opposition, because during the work of the joint committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure in fact there was no difference in the need for such an instrument. That, I think, is the best recommendation for the ministry to keep going this way. Thank you for the fact that this legal decision will close the system. We have heard from individual Members that the value of this depletion is over PLN 100 million. We hope that this will continue to seal this system and introduce further seals into the system. I think the biggest winners in all of this will be entrepreneurs who conduct business honestly, because we all know that if an honest entrepreneur has to face the one who doesn't pay any kind of public danin, he will lose. I think that, above all, this is not just a fiscal element for the state. This is a very important law for entrepreneurs who trade widely understood fuels in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u133	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no committee rapporteur for the next point at the moment. I'm declaring a recess - 15 minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 01 hours 13 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws (prints No 3471 and 3569). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws, print No 3471 and 3569. High Izbo! This draft law implements four Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council: Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions, Directive 2015/2193 of 25 November 2015 on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants, Directive 2016/2284 of 14 December 2016 on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and Directive 2018/410 of 14 March 2018, which amends the 2003 Directive to strengthen cost-effective emission reductions and low-carbon investments. This draft law also implements two regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council: 2017/2392 and 2018/2067. High Izbo! The issue of standardising emissions trading and ensuring that the system is coherent and efficient requires continuous improvement. I would like to remind you that three years have passed since these rules were adopted in 2015, so we already have some comparative material and experience in applying these rules in practice. This draft law is precisely an adjustment after 3 years of practical application of the rules. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 63 amendments to the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme are introduced. Changes include: in addition to the definition and clarification of the rules, so that their interpretation does not give rise to any doubt that they are properly clarified. These changes extend the deadlines, which takes into account the real time needed to carry out the action in question for the good functioning of the emissions trading scheme. This is intended to allow the balancing of greenhouse gas emission allowances issued for other investment tasks in the event that the investor ceases to carry out any task or has not achieved approved conformity indicators. There are also new rules for fixing emission allowances during the trading period starting from 2021. And, of course, the point is to find new sources of stable funding for the tasks of the National Centre for Balancing and Emissions Management by allocating PLN 8 million annually from revenues generated from the sale of emission allowances through auctions, and this requires the transfer of these funds from the state budget to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the increase of the maximum limit of the expenditure of the fund for financing the KoBIZ. More or less, the amendments contained in the article are based on this. 1 Act on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme. Art. 2 contains amendments to the Law of 17 June 1966 on enforcement proceedings in the administration. There is a supplement to the grounds for administrative enforcement in respect of environmental charges. Art. 3 in turn contains amendments to the Environmental Protection Inspection Act of 20 July 1991. These changes, which are included there, carry out an extension of the current air quality monitoring by two stations in the Małopolska and Zachodniopomorskie voivodships. The law also adds provisions that define the responsibility of the authorities for the transmission of monitoring reports to the European Commission and the European Environment Agency. High Izbo! In turn, the article. 5 contains amendments to the Act of 29 August 1997. Bank law. This is a minor change, but it is important because there is a deprivation of the national administrator's entitlement to require the bank to provide information that is a bank secret about the operator. Change, as I say, is short, but important. The next amendment is Art. 12, these are quite extensive changes to the law on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances. Firstly, certain information and reporting obligations are extended on the part of the National Centre for Balancing and Emissions Management. There is an obligation to develop a national air pollution reduction programme. Two new categories of substances are also added - these are HFCs and other PFCs - and the Annex to the Act is amended accordingly. There is also an extension of certain information and reporting obligations by operators. Another change is to clarify the tasks of national inventory and emission projections and introduce tasks that involve the preparation of methodological reports. The task of providing KOBIZE is to draw up periodic forecasts of changes in activity for individual sectors of the economy. These are more or less, of course, the points raised in the article. 12 amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. I would also like to draw the attention of the High House to the changes made in the article. 9 of this project, in the Act of 10 July 2007 on Fertilisation and Fertilisation. The use of ammonium carbonate mineral fertilisers is prohibited. This is the implementation of the tasks resulting from the relevant directive - the NEC Directive and I think this is a kind of analogy. Similarly, two years ago in Water Law, we introduced provisions of the Nitrates Directive, i.e. such provisions in national legislation, which are intended to reduce pollution which is introduced into the environment as a result of the use of fertilisers in agriculture. Technical solutions are also similar. Water law provides the basis for developing best practices, and a similar solution is also used in this law, i.e. provisions on the obligation to draw up a national advisory code of good agricultural practice to reduce ammonia emissions. As I say, it is related to this directive. High Izbo! There are also amendments to the Act of 3 October 2008 on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection, etc. These changes consist in adding to the list of documents made available by the Minister responsible for Environmental Affairs in the National Public Information Bulletin of the Programme for the Reduction of Air Pollution of KPOZP, including emission inventories, emission forecasts, methodological reports and reports concerning the location of monitoring stations and data obtained from these stations. High Izbo! Clearly, these provisions serve to increase transparency, to provide the public with better access to all kinds of information that society considers relevant, and to make this information readily accessible, transparent and sustainable. High Izbo! In short, I've discussed these records which, I think, are the most important. It is difficult to get into the details of the time we have for the plenary debate. All I can say is that in the course of yesterday's work, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry carried out detailed work on the project. In the course of this work, nine amendments were introduced to the draft, which somehow improve the state of these entries. 58 legislative amendments prepared by the Legislative Bureau were also introduced. The matter is quite extensive, that is a number of very strict rules that are linked, and the number of laws that we change the project that I am discussing, also proves that. So the matter is so complicated that you had to carefully re-produce the government project. The final result of our work is in print No 3569. Therefore, High Izbo, Mr Marshal, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I ask the High House to adopt the draft contained in the report of the Committee on Printing No 3569. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u135	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Czesław Sobierajski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws, seym print No 3471 and 3569. The draft strictly concerns the addition of definitions and detailed rules so that their interpretation does not raise doubts - four directives and many of our other statutory amendments - the alignment of the time limits laid down by the Act to the reality prevailing, the increase of the support of the Minister responsible for environmental matters by the supervised bodies, the adaptation of information obligations and the flow of information between the operator and the authorities, and between the authorities themselves. The draft law introduces provisions to help Poland achieve the five pollutant emission reductions set out in the Directive and thus allow for a significant improvement in air quality and a reduction in the impact of air pollution on the health of residents. As the rapporteur of the committee has put forward in detail what the draft law says, I will make two amendments on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, which I am convinced will make this law even more friendly to entrepreneurs too. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 27 in Article. 40a paragraph. 8 and 9 are making a new sound. I will not read it, the amendment will be made officially after the end of my speech. It's for the mouth. 9 we add the mouth. 10. Justification in a few sentences: The proposed change makes the derogation mechanism for energy more flexible. In the current state, an installation may receive free allowances for balancing the value of investment expenditure incurred on investments originally included in the national investment plan, the NIP. This is a list of investments that energy companies can make, approved by the European Commission, and must not be subject to any change. Where the investment has been started and the expenditure on it has been used to balance free emission allowances but has ceased to be implemented, the company should ask the State budget for the financial equivalent of the emission allowances received linked to the costs of this particular investment. The aim of the amendment is to create the possibility of balancing previously received emission allowances by imposing on other investment tasks included in the NIP without having to ask for their equivalence. Some companies have entered into the KPI more investments, which gives them an excess on investment contributions. The proposed amendment aims to require the Minister responsible for the environment to provide copies of documents relating to proceedings not only to the National Centre for Balancing and Emissions Management but also to the European Commission. Second amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 52 after the words "from the date of publication, replace the comma with a dot and delete the words "with the exception of Article." Point 1 (27). And there is a justification, a reference to the European Commission's decision on the compatibility of State aid provided for in Article. 40a and Article 40a 40b Act as amended by Art. 1 with the internal market or a decision stating that the measures provided for in those provisions do not constitute State aid - necessary. The essence of this amendment is that, according to the earlier proposal, we had to wait for the European Commission's decision to start anything. However, after these amendments, which will probably be put to the vote together, we will inform the Commission without delay, but we are not waiting for a decision, but we are implementing it in practice - unless it objects, then we will come back later, but there is no way that the case is frozen and we are waiting for the decision of the European Commission. This is the important change. On behalf of the club, we support the bill with these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u137	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The law, which I am pleased to discuss on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, concerns the amendment of the law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and implements the European Parliament directives on several important issues. This is the case: industrial emissions, i.e. integrated pollution prevention and control, reduction of emissions of certain pollutants - I will continue to talk about this - reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and, finally, strengthening cost-effective emission reductions and low-carbon investments. So we are generally adapting our national laws, implementing EU directives. That is the intention of the entire bill. It's worth the information at this point. I would like to congratulate Mr Jerzy Buzek, who has just been President of the European Energy Forum in the European Parliament, and this is crucial from our point of view that the Pole will be in charge of this, because this forum focuses on issues which are particularly important for Poland's interests: there is work on the energy strategy, the climate strategy of the European Union until 2050, on the development of renewable energy sources, Prosumer energy, as well as the fight against smog and energy poverty. But back to the subject, to the bill. Poland's emission reduction commitments related to two periods. This included the years from 2020 to 2029 and from 2030. We have undertaken to reduce emissions from the reference year 2005 and for both periods we have to reduce the level of sulphur dioxide - in the first period by 59% and later by 70%, nitric oxide, ammonia and what is very important from the point of view of fighting smog - PM2.5 dust. This is what this project refers to. This bill is quite a bill. In general, we will support her. The Act removes various and numerous interpretation doubts so far. It adapts the different deadlines to our reality. It also adapts our information obligations to various energy institutions. There's some news. A good idea is the procedure in which the National Emission Balancing and Management Centre will contact the operator directly to eliminate faults or errors. In general, it is about various solutions that make life easier for the institutions, and this is in the interests of the citizens of our country. Different changes have been proposed, e.g. as regards the extension of the basis for a negative decision on the approval of the conformity indicator. The Authority will be obliged to refuse to approve the indicator where the choice by the entity carrying out the task indicates that the implementation will not produce any environmental effect. On the one hand, this law is very important for the energy sector and, on the other hand, for all citizens, because we are also talking about clean air. Procedures have been amended to help entrepreneurs explain or correct applications. The National Emission Balancing and Management Centre has new powers. A specific part of the description of this law is that there are fewer resources in the national environmental fund, because the increase in the deficit of resources results in this amount being strictly dependent on the amount of charges for the introduction of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides into the air. It can be said that sulphur dioxide levels have fallen by about 30% over the last three years. As a result, the scale of the reduction is increasing and this is good information. We're hoping... In general, it is best that this money does not affect us because we all care about clean air. I'm also paying attention, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that we will have the opportunity to work well together with the European Parliament during the period during which we will be able to do so, and we are pleased that we will be able to improve this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u139	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 against the Government's draft law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws, print No 3471. The trading of greenhouse gas emissions is one of the main tools of the European Union to enforce the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the industrial and energy sectors. However, the current system requires a fundamental change not only in Poland, which is imposed on solutions that damage the Polish economy, but also throughout the European Union. There are many exceptions in EU legislation and many companies avoid emissions payments, especially in countries that are so-called. the hard core of the European Union. Many companies make money selling their rights without taking care of improving their energy quality and ecological production. The assumptions of the system for greenhouse gas emissions trading are already unfavourable for Poland. Prof. Władysław Mielczarski from the Łódź University of Technology notes that this system is artificial: Not only does it not allow to improve the competitiveness of renewable energy sources vis-à-vis other electricity generation technologies, but it results in pathology of fuelling subsidies and problems with the competitiveness of European industry, which must sell its products on the global market. As a result, we are seeing an increasing escape of energy-intensive industries outside the European Union, which, in the global perspective, does not improve the climate at all, on the contrary, if, of course, what needs to be assumed, man has a special impact on the climate, given, for example. to compare the emissions of various types of gases during volcanic eruptions with that in the industrial production of any country. Recently, however, there has been a sharp rise in the price of carbon allowances, which was a pretext for hitting Polish coal and conventional power plants. According to many, the rise in electricity prices, which negatively affects the Polish coal-based economy, is the result of the pathological emissions trading system, e.g. carbon dioxide invented by our so-called carbon dioxide. benefactors from the European Union. In the opinion of e.g. Professor Milczarski thus leads to continuous increases in the price of coal-based energy, and let us add that only coal, only to support so-called completely arbitrary support. RES. Poland is an example of a country which is systematically weakened by EU regulations adopted in the name of the so-called. the fight against climate, and really in the interest of the largest carbon issuer in Europe, Germany. The objectives of the project, which is being examined, are that it aims to eliminate the part of the pathology related to greenhouse gas emissions trading and therefore Kukiz15 is in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. First, please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Tall Izbo! I would like to focus in my questions on the most basic, most entertaining and most dangerous problem for people, which is air quality in Poland. My two questions are as follows. Does not the burden on energy prices of industrial installations in the production of heat and electricity put negative pressure on emission allowances in this regard, lead to the choice of less ecological, less efficient distributed individual installations? Shouldn't the second question, then, create a system in which residents and entrepreneurs would benefit from changing heating to one which greatly reduces emissions of gases and dust where they are most dangerous and burdensome? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u143	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The efficient functioning of the trading system requires improved information exchange between operators and operators and public administrations. This requires an increase in certain information obligations, including an increase in the number of documents. Are the introduced loads suitable for their electronisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u145	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u146	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question at this point: How does the Polish government intend to renew Polish energy if the funds from greenhouse gas emission allowances have been allocated to freeze electricity prices for individuals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u147	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today we are talking about adapting Polish law to European Union law, about facilitations, but in no justification, in any information I found nothing about scale or, in other words, the level of revenue that goes to the Polish budget from the titles of the sale of greenhouse gas emission allowances. What is the amount and for what purpose? I believe that this debate should also serve this purpose, because it is precisely the level of income that is important and how they change over the years. I would ask you to answer that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u149	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Minister Sławomir Mazurk to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the first two questions, the burden on costs, and the possible shift of emissions from the energy sector to the municipal and resident sector, it must be said that emissions trading is a kind of an incentive to make changes and modernise. At a sufficiently high cost of allowances, the cost of investment and prospects for the entire business budget are different. As far as possible escape is concerned, we do not see this type of escape from large installations to smaller ones. At the same time, we see that the big problem in terms of air quality is so-called. low emissions. And we are trying to create new capacities for these large installations by connecting to the heating network of the plant, by also financing issues related to gas connections and connections in the clean air programme... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm sorry, I don't know if I should tell you if I'm gonna continue. Good. Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Clean Air programme, we already have over PLN 1.2 billion located here. We have 63,000. agreements. There is great progress here precisely because we fund these activities directly in the communal and real estate sector, we re-educate this low emissions. I think that whoever would further manage this project is in this direction, so that as many of these customers, if possible, connect to the district heating network and thus reduce pollution and, on the other hand, develop renewable energy sources, because this type of action can also be carried out here through the Environmental Bank. And this is a program that responds to this demand. He will certainly be a big impulse to change, to improve air quality. As far as the questions of Mr Stefan Romecki are concerned, the ECJ is important here and here... I didn't spell it out. So it's not here. I think I answered that question. It's targeted... And I'll be back... I'm sorry, but I'm not going to answer that question in writing. I'm so sorry. As far as the final question is concerned, there are measures up to several billion zlotys. Of course, this varies depending on the price of the allowances. These funds go to the state budget. And in general, these measures, which come from emissions trading, are to be found in the modernization of Polish energy. Within 10 years they will go to Polish energy, so that it is more efficient, more efficient and more fulfilling the highest standards. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. And here we are, the rapporteur of the commission, Mrs Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to thank the representatives of the clubs first of all for declaring their support for this project. It is clear that the project increases transparency, removes interpretation doubts, that is, this transparency will serve better and more effective functioning of these regulations and, on the other hand, adapts to legal, economic, financial realities, which also serves Polish companies. As regards the issues raised in the questions, I would like to point out that the government's efforts to increase the intensity of air protection are two-way. On the one hand, we are talking about achieving economies of scale by sealing district heating networks, connecting large groups of residents to emission-free or low-carbon sources, because money is coming from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and from voivodeship funds, and on the other hand, the Clean Air programme mentioned by the Minister contains money that can be, of course, under certain conditions, because you need to have a source of energy... The issue of thermomodernization of buildings is an opportunity to reduce our energy demand, which means we will emit less. This programme is now working towards a reduction in emissions. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the representatives of the clubs for their declaration of support for the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u153	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft investment law for the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939 - Branch of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk (prints No 3454 and 3544). I would very much like to ask Mr Jan Kilian to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to be the rapporteur of this very important and expected act by Poles concerning one of the most recognizable places in Poland and the world connected with the Second World War - the Westerplatte peninsula. This is the report of the Committee on Infrastructure, print No 3544, about the parliamentary draft law on investments in the field of construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War - Department of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk, print No 3454. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Parliament's Committee on Infrastructure for First Reading on 15 May 2019. The Infrastructure Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 18 June 2019, invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. The project sets out the terms, conditions and modalities for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War - Branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk required for reasons of public interest, the authorities responsible for the preparation and implementation of the investments referred to above, as well as the sources of financing for investments. The committee held its meeting on 18 June 2019 in a very turbulent atmosphere. Each party had the opportunity to make a full statement and evaluate. Many of these statements, in an unprecedented way, went beyond the right tone so far present at the meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure. [[That's not true.]] The bill provides for a very detailed procedure prior to the start of the investment in the construction of the Westerplatte museum. The project describes the acquisition of legal title for real estate and investment. The project also includes details of administrative and judicial and administrative proceedings in the implementation of the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War - Branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk. In the course of his work, the application for rejection of the above-mentioned document was rejected. The committee rejected the draft at first reading. The Commission accepted an amendment to change the definition of the Westerplatte battlefield and legislative amendments. The Commission adopted the report. High Izbo! Westerplatte is a sacred place for Poles. That's where World War II started on September 1. This is probably where the first soldier of this terrible conflict, which soon took over almost the whole world, was killed. In reflections on the history of our homeland, the word Westerplatte has always been associated with the first minutes of World War II and with the extremely determined defence fight of the Westerplatte peninsula, which should be considered a fight for Poland's independence. Although during World War II celebrations in Westerplatte, we have seen some political tension for several good years, especially when we are asleep. President Lech Kaczyński, in the presence of the most important people from Germany, Russia and other countries, expressed words about who attacked Poland in 1939, but Westerplatte was always a symbol of the heroic struggle for Poland, the fight led by a small group of Polish soldiers during the first hours of the war. The President's words caused quite a stir among the participants of the ceremony, and especially the former Prime Minister of the Republic, the authority of today's opposition, felt uncomfortable. [[Joy in the Chamber]] President Kaczyński always said that the most important thing is the truth, that we should talk about it, even though it was very painful. And he did. Thermopylae, Pearl Harbor, Normandy - these are obvious places in which they have taken place, fought, full of sacrifice for the battle of their homeland. Whoever has ever been interested in the greatest battles of World War II knows with what anointing, with which piety the posterity took care of the memory of the victims of these battles. Thousands of white crosses at the cemetery in Normandy make an unusual, reflective impression. In 2015, the Council The Americans exhumed the remains of their soldiers. With the greatest respect, coffins with the remains of American soldiers were transported to their homeland. The motherland paid their dues. The place where the first defenders of Polish land died has been neglected for years, as if forgotten. The celebrations of September 1st are organized at the symbolic time of the outbreak of World War II, but isn't the gray aura of the morning a natural veil of an ugly, deserted place? [[Go see, because it's not true.]] Whatever it is, it's a curtain. Cleaned up two days ago. Currently, as a country, we are in the process of restoring the right historical-patriotic policy. Unfortunately, although this concerns the history of our homeland, which should be connected by Poles, political opposition does everything to make historical truth unclear and unclear. For this, it uses local authorities, under whose jurisdiction there are places of memory of Martyrology. An example is the Polin Museum. One of the most important museums in Poland is so constructed legally and so has the statute formulated, that actually the Polish state cannot co-decide on the way the museum works and the contents presented there. [[Maybe it's okay.]] Today we are dealing with an attempt to write a new history of Poland. [[Were we at the same committee meetings?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u155	Excuse me, sir. You're the committee's rapporteur, aren't you?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u156	I'm trying as hard as I can to give the atmosphere of the discussion...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u157	Excuse me...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u158	...and the talks at the committee meeting. [[We weren't at the same committee meeting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u159	I would ask you very much to present the position of the committee and the course of the discussion at the committee meeting. You'll be able to put your own opinion to the next point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u160	Returning to Gdansk, to Westerplatte, the president of the city, speaking of the outbreak of World War II, does not say: Germany, only says that 80 years ago began the Second War, which brought the regime and slavery. This is not a proper and responsible narrative. In connection with the current government's historical policy and the intention to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, it was proposed to the city authorities to build the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Defence War as a great national theme so as not to say: the international theme. In the world Westerplatte is associated with the place where World War II began, and it is willingly visited by foreigners. Public opinion polls show that in Gdansk, after the Basilica of Mariacka it is Westerplatte that is most likely visited by tourists. For this reason, and for many other reasons, an open-air museum should be created telling about the details of the 7-day fight between Poles and Germany in the context of the general defence struggle of the Polish state in 1939. It is incomprehensible that the city authorities, having received an offer from the government to invest PLN 150 million in this project, i.e. having received specific aid, resist and refuse to accept it, arguing that the city would lose its territory in Gdańsk. No, this area belongs to Poland. [[And Gdansk is where?]] Previously mentioned by me, the Polin Museum in Warsaw and the European Solidarity Centre in Gdansk are examples of practicing their own self-government policy with the exception of state policy... [[About.]] ...and this is a disturbing phenomenon. The decision to build the Westerplatte Museum is correct. If there is no choice, Parliament and the government must take it with the necessary legal instruments. This is a special act that is designed to organize the ownership structure on the Westerplatte peninsula, because without ordering the case, the investment cannot begin. We want this museum to be built in three or four years. It belongs to Poles and the world. This is not an initiative this year. I will remind you that Law and Justice had first proposed the construction of the Westerplatte Museum in 2006, only that soon afterwards we lost power and the subject was not continued by the government of Donald Tusk. [[That's the report?]] Today it comes back and there can no longer be a situation where two museums would be built on the Westerplatte Peninsula... [[But you didn't talk about it on the committee.]] ...one built by the city of Gdansk, the other - by the Polish state, and such eventualities are discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u161	Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I would remind you that you speak as rapporteur for the committee, and I would like you to present the discussion in committee, to say what the bill contains, because that is your task. Please state your opposition assessment in your free speech. [[Voice from the room: Please join the questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u162	Last sentence, Marshal. Westerplatte is a card of Poland. The years of both neglecting the place itself and the economical exposure in the historical dimension justify the concerns of Poles... [[Voice from the hall: Poles did not speak.]] ...the Polish government that the Gdansk authorities want to present here a delicate historical message. As rapporteur on behalf of the committee, I request reflection and adoption of the draft proposed speciality presented in print No 3454 and the report in print No 3544. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[With a formal application.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u163	Thank you, sir. [[It wasn't a committee report.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. With a formal request from Agnieszka Pomaska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! First of all, thank you very much for this response, but the situation that has just happened is simply outrageous and unacceptable. The rapporteur went beyond his role by presenting the political view of his political party, the PiS, and not the committee's report. I would therefore like to inform you that I will submit to the ethics committee a request to punish Mr John Kilian for what has happened. [[Applause]] Secondly, Marshal, let me say one more sentence. It cannot be that the rapporteur, any Member, goes out on the stand and lies with impunity. We are about to straighten out these lies in the debate, but this is unacceptable and outrageous, and we will meet you in the ethics committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u165	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to cool your emotions. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak, because we have a five-minute statement in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Poleczek, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Parliamentary draft law on investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War - Branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Westerplatte and the defensive war of 1939 definitely deserve their museum. I very much hope that in this Chamber and among the public exactly 80 years since the outbreak of World War II there is no doubt about that. On the one hand, Westerplatte is a cezura, and it is clear, between Poland free from 1918 and Poland enslaved for another 50 years since 1939. This censorship may seem obvious to us in Poland, but in many parts of the world it is either forgotten or consciously erased from universal consciousness. On the other hand, and this is a fundamental thing, it is impossible to understand the essence of Polish attitudes towards totalitarianism without a symbol, an archetype of Westerplatte, which means such a national readiness to fight for important values for us in the face of a dominant enemy. After all, apart from the memory of this corner of Polishness in the German-dominated Free City of Gdansk, beyond the dimension of the beginning of this most horrible war, Westerplatte since 1987 also bears in itself the value of this universal message, the national good which was sanctified there by the word of John Paul. II. Today Westerplatte - in the essential part for the future museum - does not tell in a full, adequate way its history. Leaving without comment the issue of ordering the peninsula area, however, one cannot go indifferently with the fact that the transport paths of the peninsula do not lead tourists to memorial sites. Thus very often they are avoided, and in an exceptional way, I would say indifferent, traces of the memory of Polish soldiers who died in guardhouse No.5 - the cemetery on Westerplatte - or the deeply hidden place of the death of Konstanty Jezierski, perhaps the first soldier who died during World War II. It is enough to say that the only substitute for a museum exhibition in this area equals 9 ha takes less than 70 m2 and deviates far from the museum standards of the 21st century. Finally, a real museum must be built at Westerplatte, and the process that started at the initiative of Minister Jarosław Sellin in 2005-2007 must be completed. It was brutally interrupted after the loss of government. A proven method of building the museum is a special act which triggers the potential of the Westerplatte peninsula, and thanks to the parliamentary initiative supported by the state over 150 million PLN it will be possible to break the long-term inertia and government. This means that the formal legal and investment work on Westerplatte will be launched and finalised efficiently and that the substantive work on the final shape of the exposure will be accelerated. Regardless of the two visions that exist today in the public space, the proposal to develop the Westerplatte area, around its final shape - as declared publicly by the investor's bill - is to take place, which I want to make clear on behalf of our club, the debate of expert and kombatantian environments. All of this will end with an international architectural competition for the construction of a museum, which will commemorate this place with dignity. Today, our proposal is to create an open-air museum on Westerplatte, to develop the area around it in a way that takes into account both the restoration of the historical road system and the respect for its natural values, the creation of a coherent educational path covering all sites and historical objects and a number of other activities. All these activities are to be carried out in accordance with the principle of sustainable development, with a view to establishing the cultural heritage of this place appropriate functions in collective life and social awareness. I think that we can be calm about the dimension of these works, especially when we follow the last two years of the success of the World War II Museum in Gdansk. Some of these successes are e.g. tens of thousands won [[♪ The bell ♪]] on Westerplatte as part of archaeological research on artifacts or the World Forum of Museums of Battlefields with the participation of museum powers of the world, which have become milestones in the construction of the museum. If your marshal will allow me - 20 more seconds, I will finish the performance. We're all just waiting for this museum. We also know, as proposed by the Ministry and the director of the museum of Mr Karol Nawrocki and in accordance with the speeches of Minister Sellin's committee, that the work on the shape of the museum will not exclude the local government of Gdansk. He will be invited to participate in conceptual work within the framework of the World War II Museum Programme Board. Today, the Sejm will decide the fate of one of the most important places in the history of the 20th century in Poland. The adoption of the proposed project will mark the beginning of the expected process of construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939. Failure to work on this project will undoubtedly bring this historical, important for public awareness in Poland and the world into chaos and uncertainty, its status quo. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u167	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u168	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to address the rapporteur. I don't understand your aggressive attack on sleep. Lech Kaczyński. I'm sure you don't know that he signed the agreement on the establishment of the Polin Museum. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I present my position on the parliamentary draft investment bill for the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Wars - Branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk. This is another installment of the Westerplatte battle and an attempt to take them over for political purposes of the current government. Last year, President Adamowicz was proposed to buy Westerplatte for PLN 2 million. The president refused, rightly stating that this is not a place that can be traded. So you tried to undermine the communalization of these areas, but it turns out that the communalization signed the dead. voivode of Płażyński, so you held back. Ladies and gentlemen! When the PiS wants to take something from the local government, it produces a specialty in which it contains noble goals, such as the creation of a museum. After all, the museum can be realized and without a specialty. This is the first case since the end of World War II, when one museum in particular owns the other museum. The last nationalisation took place in 1945 by decree of Bierut. I wanted to ask you if the system rightfully passed is your pattern. Why won't you accept President Dulkiewicz's offer to commemorate Westerplatte together? Denial and forceful procedure on this bill is proof that your intentions are completely different. On September 1, we will celebrate the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. The current government wants to take over this ceremony completely, it is part of the election campaign, but Westerplatte served and should serve all Poles who respect the heroism of Polish soldiers, not manifest the views of one party. On behalf of my club, I'm filing a motion to reject in full the draft of this scandalous bill and an amendment to expropriation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u169	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u170	Thank you very much, Marshal. I think that both the rapporteur and the representative of Law and Justice have basically confirmed that the title of this law is wrong. It's not a building bill, it's a demolition bill. That is why we will also report an amendment concerning the title of this law not to mention that you want to build something, but that you want to tear it down, you just want to take Westerplatte from Gdansk and try to impose your own version of history on us. You're trying to do this all the time. I would like to remind you of the scandalous words of Mrs Pawłowicz, who said that Gdansk is not Polish, and Gdansk is not Polish. All those who have doubts about this are referred to the Sejm Library, where 2 years ago I submitted an encyclopedia of Gdansk, in which one can read about difficult but rich in various - good and bad - experiences of Gdansk's history. There you can read about it and see how it really is. All those who believe in the piss are invited to Westerplatte. I was there on Sunday. Mr. Reporter, I have a question for you: when were you at Westerplatte? [[Voice from the room: Never.]] Did you see what you were talking about? I was there, and I was even ready to clean up Westerplatte because you said it was a mess. Yes, the mess is on the territory belonging to the State Treasury. The city takes care of its territory. First of all, I will remind you, the city has prepared three concepts for its development. Are you interested in that? Do you know what these concepts look like? We can talk about this in a minute, because I see you have nothing to say now. There's probably gonna be a committee meeting tonight. I hope you'll want to take a look at these projects. And I appeal to all those who are taking part in this debate: Don't be manipulated, don't let them impose a version of a story that doesn't exist. Go to Westerplatte, see that this is a living monument to history. See, there's history in every place, in every building, including the one that's left practically intact after the war, because that story feels there to learn lessons from it. I also encourage you to look at the inscription that is on Westerplatte: No more war. I encourage you to take this password to heart and tonight you have given up this war and the battle of Westerplatte. The battle of Westerplatte is behind us. Let's build something together, positive, and don't start a war. I repeat: No more war, also in the Polish parliament. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u171	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Kobylarz, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present the position of the club on the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Wars. The bill was prepared to improve the preparation and implementation of investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War - Branch of the Museum of World War II in Gdańsk. Protection and proper development of the field of battle at Westerplatte is aimed at preserving unique historical, spatial, material and intangible values symbolizing heroism and the sacrifice suffered by a Polish soldier. Ladies and gentlemen! I am a frequent visitor in Westerplatte and have experienced not what you have said. Because it was really dirty, there were cans and there was garbage. [[And when were you?]] Ma'am, I am very often, because I am a resident of the Pomeranian Voivodeship. [[But when was the last time you were here?]] A week ago. [[And who do they belong to?]] But I'm not going to confess to you right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u173	All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u174	Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to defend Mrs. Dulkiewicz, then defend yourself in another way. I want you to defend yourself in such a way that you throw away the vice president for the words he said, [[Applause]] that we as Poles in one word caused the Germans to murder 6 million Poles. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But that's not what we're talking about right now.]] That's what I'm talking about. [[Voice from the hall: But he didn't say so.]] That's what he said.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u175	I'm asking you to calm down. [[Voice from the room: But he didn't say it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u176	Ladies and gentlemen! You were all at the committee meeting. Were you at the committee meeting? [[We were at a committee meeting.]] I am very happy because the committee meeting lasted six hours, a team from Gdansk arrived. Very well, only without any issues that concern the fact that you should leave this place in the state in which it is. [[How can you not? How?]] No, this place deserves to be so well-developed that the memory of heroes is exposed as best as possible, and so far it isn't. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about political issues, because the war on Westerplatte has been moved to Warsaw - it is not good, because I think that we should deal with these matters differently - if it has already sounded the subject and it has taken such a momentum, then I will say that 150 million PLN for Gdańsk should be enough money to manage this area. If you want to give this money, I think that's a good thing. Second thing. No one's taking this area anywhere. This area will stay where it is. Today is the PiS government, in some time there will be a government of another party, a political option, but there will be no problem and there will be no problems with any local government. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u177	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Jan Mazowiecki, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. [[But you referred to me as an MEP.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u178	Dear Polki! Dear Poles! High Seym! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft investment law on the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939. On September 1, 1939, the German armadillo Schleswig-Holstein opened fire towards the Polish facility. A symbolic place for each Pole. A place that was the beginning of the cruelty of World War II. A place that is a monument to history that should never have happened. Unfortunately, this symbolic place is today an image of the Polish-Polish war, in the current dispute on the line government - the government of Gdańsk, in particular President Aleksandra Dulkiewicz, the Polish culture suffers most. The project which entered the Sejm as a parliamentary project, without any consultation, without dialogue, without respect for the rights of the local government, so-called. the special act is intended only to take over the place sanctified by Polish blood for the political purposes of one party. There is an analogy to the removal of Józef Piłsudski's square for defence purposes in Warsaw. And defence in this case is manifested in the construction of monuments. I'm sure the level of safety has improved considerably. History, the difficult Polish history of the 20th century, should be part of the national consent and joint commemoration of the heroic deeds of our ancestors. Unfortunately, once again, there is an image of the power of the ruling political party, for which only the propaganda effect is important. You want to take over the area by force to conduct your own celebrations, as it has done many times. It must be made clear: a project that destroys self-government Poland cannot be supported, which destroys all manifestations of independence from central government by means of a legislative waltz. The historical activity of the current authority is widely known. According to their assumptions Poland was not until 12 November 2015, which is as true as Mateusz Morawiecki's negotiations on Poland's accession to the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. As regards historical and cultural activities, it is important to mention earlier activities of the current governing team. The Minister of Culture issued a decision to merge the World War II Museum with the Westerplatte Museum and, as a consequence, appointed a new director of the combined facilities. There is an iron consequence in the ownership of all possible sectors of life of Poles. There can be no consent for actions contrary to elementary decency. A constitution that is binding in this country. You have a duty to keep it, not to break it every step of the way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u179	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Circle of Members Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members! Westerplatte is undoubtedly a symbolic place in the history of Poland and Gdansk and what is crucial - I say it to Members of Law and Justice - it is a symbolic place for Poland and Gdansk. In the establishment of the museum Westerplatte completely and completely unjustified and even vile procedure which you present, there is a dispute with the authorities of Gdańsk and an attempt to marginalize Gdansk in this project. Westerplatte is a symbol of both Polish and Gdańsk. In this statement, very short and small, there is all the historical complexity of this place and of Gdansk itself, where the fate of Poles and Germans - citizens of the Free City of Gdansk crossed. But what does Law and Justice do? Knowing your 3.5-year-old activities with regard to cultural institutions, looking at what you're doing, how you're tearing down these cultural institutions, how you're trying to influence the management of these cultural institutions, what do we see? We see that you want to create a museum that will forge history, and a museum that forge history will not be a museum, but a place for political propaganda, political propaganda of Law and Justice. Our history is a multi-national, complicated and slippery zero-one rating, but every time we talk about history, culture, it's all over and overwhelm. You have repeatedly shown how disastrous the law and justice policies can be. I would like to remind you of a policy against Israel or a completely inept policy on the east of Europe. As I said at the beginning, Westerplatte and September 39 is a symbol, symbol of bravery and sacrifice of soldiers, but it is also a symbol of the inability of the politicians and military then who were unable to build then neither effective political alliances nor an effective army. Apart from heroism, this is also a symbol of disaster, but you, or Law and Justice, enjoy celebrating disasters and hopeless situations. You can disgust... You've shown over the last three and a half years how to disgust national holidays, like. On June 4th or the Feast of the Constitution on May 3rd, which is not yours either, you don't like it either. [[What kind of nonsense are you talking about?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Historical policy, which is presented by the Law and Justice you want to present and which you want to own the Westerplatte Museum, is based on a lie, a unilateral glorification of defeats and a reduction of real victories and achievements. This is nothing more than weakening the national community and the spirit of the nation. And that's what you're trying to do, to weaken this national community. Why? Because the weak rule better, they are better managed. Therefore, my circle and I personally will not support this project and we have two very important reasons for it. The first is Gdansk's role in this project. Without the Gdansk, without the Gdansk, this museum will only be party propaganda, only and exclusively. And that's all you want. You want another institution for your own propaganda. And the other thing. So far, it is virtually unknown what the substantive side of the whole project will look like. If we want to commemorate the heroes and victims, then we should also show the tragic consequences of the misguided and self-righteous politics of that day's power. Finally, I would like to say one important thing. This whole discussion about Westerplatte, the Westerplatte Museum, or the next cultural institution you want to take over, is only to take away the city's space to control this space and to realize the selfish motives of several politicians, including you, Minister Sellin. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u181	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of the Polish Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the draft law on investment in the field of the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War - Branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk. The project of this specialization involves facilitating and simplifying the procedures for the creation of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War, which will be a branch of the World War II Museum and whose cost is estimated at about PLN 150 million. Westerplatte's defense in 1939 became one of the most important and best-known symbols of Poland's resistance against German aggression. It is not surprising, therefore, that since August 2003 the area of the field of battle on Westerplatte is a regulation of the then President of the Republic of Poland considered as a monument to history, a subject of particular concern of the Polish state. It is sad that, despite such great importance for our cultural and historical heritage, this place has been so neglected. Unfortunately, the authorities of the city of Gdansk did not stand up to the task and did not take due care of the memory associated with this place. In addition, it requires that it is not a matter of last year, and many years during which every day nobody cared about Westerplatte, thus showing disrespect for the death of Polish soldiers. I am convinced that today's initiative will serve to properly commemorate the dead and disseminate the history of Westerplatte. Looking at the devastation of this place of memory, I have no doubt that the government has failed to cope with this task, so state intervention is necessary in this regard. Westerplatte is the property of the entire Polish nation, which is why the arguments about trying to politicize this area seem to me to be curious. I share the view that it is our duty to use it properly. I trust that the cooperation of the government and the local government in this area, despite the continuing burning of the ongoing dispute, will still be possible for our common good. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the bill presented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u183	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Ms Agnieszka Pomaska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to correct the words of the party's representative, the Kukiz Club15, who agrees that the government should take over Westerplatte. He likes it very much. In addition, he believes that he can also furniture the president of Gdańsk's city his collaborators. I want to tell you one thing. No one like the murdered President Adamowicz cared about Westerplatte territory. No one like President Dulkiewicz and mentioned by your Vice President Grzelak cares about the memory that President Adamowicz cared about. Let me remind you, President Adamowicz started his rounds every year at 1 September at 3 p.m. 4.45 the start of the outbreak of World War II. I want to remind you of this because I have this feeling that you think that the history of Poland began in 2015 when PiS won the election. That is not the case. And remember this also in this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u185	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? I'm closing the list. Please, the first Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's another bill that doesn't require consultation. It will pass like a torpedo through the Sejm, the Senate and the President's signature. Once again, the PiS disregards the dialogue, the PiS disregards the law again, the PiS refuses to debate the local government and, above all, refuses to debate the depositary's knowledge and history of Westerplatte. And all in order to take this area away from the government of Gdansk. Thus, it kills self-government, because only for this is the reason you want to take the land to accomplish only your political goals. It's not for the Sejm to decide, it's for the PiS to decide. They use the power, the law of the stronger, and these solutions are already a symbol of their rule. You, ladies and gentlemen, do not know what a compromise is, do not know what a dialogue is. You want to control everything, you want to control everyone. You're the champions of conflict-building, you're the champions of division and division. PiS does not rule in Gdansk, so it uses parliament to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What you are doing today should light a red lamp in all local governments throughout Poland, because in a moment there may be an avalanche of such behaviour, there may be a forceful takeover of areas in each municipality. It's centralization for communes. You centralize everything: voluntary firefighters, rural housewives, Piłsudski Square in Warsaw. Westerplatte, ladies and gentlemen, has much more to say. Why do you take the tasks and land of Gdansk self-government in such a rogue way? Finally, I would like to say that I was, Mr Reporter, all the time present at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, during these six hours. You can't even be decent here and tell the truth. You didn't act like a committee rapporteur, you acted like a political officer. You're even out of decency here. [[Applause]] [[Party.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u187	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The government is trying to take this area away from Gdansk by any means possible. When you fail to do so according to law and decency, you proceed over the specialty. You want to prove that you can't be banned. Why do you not want to accept the proposal of President Dulkiewicz, who was going in a very good direction so that the city would put the land in, and you would put the money you want to invest in so that we could work together and decide on these celebrations? You forcefully want to take it, nationalize it. The last nationalization was in 1945, for Bierut. Not Bierut, but Bierut's decree. I think that's your pattern. That's what you want to go back to, and you miss it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u189	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, there has been a political dispute over Westerplatte between the Gdansk government and the Ministry of Culture for three years. Its first beginning was the acquisition by PiS of control over the Museum of World War II. Today we all understand that it was not only about filling this facility with your people, but above all about winning war, a war for memory, which is still being used in a political dispute. The PiS on its way to its destination has prepared a devoid specialty de facto Gdansk self-government of all rights to the earth, memory and ideas. President of Gdańsk Aleksandra Dulkiewicz in response to the PiS specialty proposed cooperation in the development of a new Westerplatte project with a material and spiritual dimension, but according to Minister Gowin who is not here today - I quote the statement of 26 June 2019. - That's it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] na There is a democratically elected majority in rural areas that will determine whether these areas are to become the place of a new state museum. This means that the democratic majority of rural countries with a violent law will stand in front of the democratic majority...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u191	Go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u192	...chosen in the local elections in Gdansk. Last sentence, Marshal. So which democracy is more democratic, Mr Gowin? Do you have a theory about that? The one who's trying to find a consensus, or the one who's talking about expropriation, lack of recourse to court and deprivation of rights? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u193	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask you very much, because there are a lot of questions to follow in time. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u194	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We in Warsaw know exactly how it is You've done Piłsudski Square. First the square was to be needed for the defense of the country, then it turned out that really to commemorate things that could have been carried out legally, but everything that PiS does is done by force, by imposing their own will, by their own patterns. Ladies and gentlemen! This is another problem after the problem with the World War II Museum, with the ECS - an attempt to take over space, also an attempt to take over institutions. This is also a good opportunity, Minister - I am talking to Minister Sellin - to present to the High House what is happening to the issue of the final competition for the position of director of the Museum of the History of Polish Jews Polin. Professor Dariusz Stola won the competition for this position, he was elected for a five-year term. Why doesn't Minister Gliński appoint the elected director to his position? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This case also raises international controversy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u196	It's time for you to answer these questions from the speaker. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u197	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Westerplatte Military Transit Component was the arena of some of the most heroic fights against German aggressors during the 1939 defence war. The heroic defence of a few crew against a massive attack from water, land and air remains a very clear symbol and part of the national identity for the next generations of Poles. In my town of Gliwice, it is very clear about the celebrations held at the graves of two Westerplatz people who found their home here after the loss of the Eastern Kres. The deplorable material state - and I was there a year ago - remains of the storage facility, as well as the presented attitude of the local government of Gdańsk prove that until now responsibility for Westerplatte rested in the wrong hands. The proposed law gives hope that future generations will still be able to draw inspiration from this piece of land soaked with Polish blood. However, I have a question: Does the proposed solution sufficiently protect the formation of the facility from [[♪ The bell ♪]] irresponsible obstruction by the politically motivated authorities of Gdansk? And one more more question. What happens to another heroic place, a place of heroic defense in Gdansk? I'm talking about Poczta Gdansk. I think there's an interesting signal from there. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u199	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a quick question. Is Westerplatte currently being developed in a manner appropriate to its national rank and international importance? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u201	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm standing here with my heart pressed. Do you have any idea what it's like to be ungrateful, who have built this monument in a social way? I'm one of those chubby girls. I used to carry rocks when I was a kid. Can you imagine what they think of you? You say the sovereign is the most important. Why don't you talk to that sovereign? I don't get it. One more thing. Our president, Gdansk, Aleksandra Dulkiewicz, tries to reach a consensus with the state at all costs. I don't know why you guys are so resistant. Are you trying to take everything away from us? And one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, stay away from Gdansk Post. Our Gdansk will remain only for people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Polish Gdansk.]] It's just that. It's true, it's Polish. We won't let you take anything from Gdansk. That's the truth. And there's nothing to laugh about, sir. From Gdansk to Starogard a bit further. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u203	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Adam Korol, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. And Gdansk is where, sir? Is Gdansk in Poland? I don't know what you have in our town. The weekly, which you are so eager to support with large sums, wrote recently: Gdansk wants to go to Germany. When are you gonna stop insulting the Gdansk? [[Applause]] Minister Sellin, you're also a Gdansk man. Why didn't you respond to that? Who wants to go to Germany? You really insult us every step of the way. I have a question. What happened that suddenly you wanted to take the lands of the city of Gdansk to Westerplatte? Why now? After all, you were four years old, you could have built a museum for four years. Only now, on the eve of the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, under the cloak of building a new museum are you trying to forcefully take over the area of Westerplatte, where the museum is already on. By the way, just like you said. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Member of Pomask, the city already has three concepts, ready concepts for the development of this area. Is the real reason for your actions a desire to organize the Westerplatte event on your own? Unfortunately, it looks that way.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u205	Now, you're gonna have to stop.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u206	You don't want to ask anyone's opinion, you don't want to cooperate with anyone. Despite opposition from many backgrounds, you want to impose your will on everyone. I'm just gonna finish my sentence. The latest survey, which appeared yesterday or the day before yesterday, clearly shows that those who participated in it said that this area should be managed by the city. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u207	Thank you very much, sir. I don't mean to interrupt, but please follow the timeline. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are bored to see another demonstration of the power of the ruling party, observing with great ignorance how it treats not only the opposition's opinions, but also the citizens themselves. This time, after an unsuccessful attempt by the director of Karol Nawrocki's Westerplatte sites belonging to Gdańsk - because everything is for sale - by the back door, a summary legislative path, attempts to own the cultural institution belonging to the city of Gdańsk. For it is not for public interest purposes, and for political purposes the museum Westerplatte will be built. Unfortunately, that's the bitter truth. I have a question for the Minister why this bill is being prosecuted in parliamentary rather than government mode. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u209	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The legislative intention, but also in the ordinary sense of the community as a sense of generational heritage and historical attention to the place of memory of the Polish people, is the demand for proper honoring of Westerplatte. Therefore, in these particular years of functioning of the National Programme, the request and initiative of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and Members of Parliament are as appropriate as possible. And this fact will not change the validity of the question as to whether the identity of the nation lies within us, or whether it is formed by taking care of the symbolic sphere, including artifacts and spaces of historical importance for the whole community. Which, in the context of the absurdity of the dispute, to which Westerplatte belongs, is particularly pronunciational. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u211	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm really glad you brought up the posters. I wanted to ask the rapporteur and the initiator of this bill by Mr Smolinski, if they knew how much money he gave the Pomeranian Voivodeship this year - your representative from the PiS - to keep gravestones in the cemetery in Gdańsk Zaspa. Zero. Do the rapporteur and Mr Smolinski know how much the Pomeranian voivode, your PiS representative, has given money this year to support the Westerplatte cemetery? Zero. No money to support Gdansk in keeping the graves of those who died. Finally, Mr Smolinski, did you respond to President Dulkiewicz's compromise proposal on this matter? Did you manage to find a compromise on this? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u214	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Question for the rapporteur. A lot is being said about our historic Westerplatte. Is the current government going to cooperate with the government of Gdańsk in the construction of the World War II Museum branch and Westerplatte? Rather, this answer will be: yes, because Mr Poleczek mentioned it. And if so, to what extent would that be? For the construction of the museum on the historic Westerplatte peninsula, where the historical and heroic fight of Polish soldiers took place, 150 million PLN was allocated. Hence my second question: Will this sum be used to buy additional areas for the construction of the museum? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to end these party wars, respect the historic place and take care of it, reminding us of the heroic and heroic fight of the Polish soldier against the German invader. Let's leave the feud, because this place belongs to all Poles. Let's remember that and respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u216	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will continue as an applicant, but now I have two short questions. Question to the rapporteur: Does the law provide for the nationalisation of the collections of any museum in this area and does it provide for the liquidation of any monument there? And the question to the Minister: Does the law regulate the organization of the ceremony on 1 September and does the Polish state intend to eliminate the city of Gdańsk from the celebrations of 1 September, which are held every year in this place? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u217	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Polakzek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I ask a question, let me just remind all the ladies and gentlemen speaking that this parliamentary project, which is being discussed today at second reading, has received very strong support from the veteran communities. You have this in your email attachments, especially the members of the Infrastructure Commission. Second point: I have been working in the Committee on Infrastructure for 20 years and I have never heard such absurd allegations during my parliamentary work on this type of bill. [[There's never been a law like that.]] And the question I want... I wanted to ask you a question using the Minister's presence. Should the Minister possibly be able to develop these two themes that have already been discussed in the Committee on Infrastructure. Firstly, it is the integration of the local government of Gdańsk into conceptual work in the Programme Council of the II World War Museum. And secondly, if I could also ask the Minister for a comment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which concerns the entire expert procedure connected also with the selection of the project and the international archekto... [[Architectural.]] ...architectonic on the Westerplatte Museum itself, World War II. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u219	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Borowczak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u220	Thank you, Marshal. The question is: Why? Why are you doing this? But there's nothing to ask, because you're doing it for yourselves, for your own greed... [[For Poland.]] ...not for Poland. [[Voice from the hall: Yeah, for Poland.]] You're acting like it's completely outside of any democracy. I remember in 1970 the people's authorities said: the shipbuilders are not shipbuilders, these are the Germans who want to take Gdansk back. The same was true in 1980 during the strike of August. [[The voice in the room: That's what they say...]] And now you say, "Cdancing doesn't care, cdancing doesn't do." I want to ask you something, Minister. You're from Gdansk, I'm ashamed of you! [[Applause]] Because in August we learned solidarity and talking to people, and what do you do? A bill, by Kazie Smolinski? ♪ When you're gonna do it ♪ ♪ When you're gonna do it ♪ ♪ When Would you put Tczewski on that list? How about the Wielenias? How about the Grunwald fields? Do you miss it? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u221	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it was possible to conclude from the discussion at the committee meeting what is the real reason for Westerplatte's drastic negligence by the government authorities of Gdańsk. [[How can you lie like that, Eve? Have you ever been there?]] I was.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u223	I'm asking you to calm down. Please, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u224	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask why, within the framework of your historical policy, you share sacred places for Poles and Poles, important for historical reasons, for better and worse. I'd like to claim Hel. The defense ended on 2 September 1939. [[October.]] Kępa Oxywska - 2 000 were killed during 19 days of September 1939. Polish soldiers. Not a word in your historical policy about these places. And why - and what decided - did you choose Westerplatte? What are the real reasons for the bill to take over the city of Gdansk land and this sacred place, important to everyone? If Gdansk was the beginning, it should be respected. And for these reasons, I make it clear that this project of yours has only a purely political dimension. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the second point, Minister. Why didn't you want to accept the arguments of the President of the City of Gdansk to reach a good, agreed compromise on the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u225	Thank you, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is an example of the total defeat of the PiS. I wanted to remind you that the Polin Museum, which you gave here as an example of a disaster, is a museum that was founded by the sleeper. President of the city of Lech Kaczyński. And as a self-government officer, he was able to reach an agreement with the SLD's trilateral culture minister: the Ministry, the City and the ŻIH Association. You name this museum of Polin as an example of disaster. How can you despise a Polish museum that has such great successes in the world? This first museum, which became the European Museum of the Year, is the museum which received the Europa Nostra Award, the museum which received the award of the association of European museums, is a building that received many international awards, it is a museum that visits half a million visitors a year, which has the highest ratings in Poland and the world. Such contempt for the achievements of the Polish museum, contempt for cooperation with local government it is It's just a total disaster. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PiS and insulting Lech Kaczyński's memory and heritage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u227	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u228	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The history of Poland is our great and common heritage, which should unite us and not divide us. Such a good is Westerplatte, a place of great importance for Gdansk itself, Poland, Europe, but also the whole world. For decades, the units of the Gdansk government have been collecting collections related to Westerplatte defenders and exhibiting them for all visitors. In this area there is also intensive educational activity, and the Gdansk government takes care of this area in spite of what you say. Therefore, I do not understand why the Government of PiS wants to take Westerplatte from Gdansk people with strong legal solutions, creating a dangerous precedent through which the government can gradually lead to a reduction of the powers of government. And you do it all the time. The areas around Westerplatte should continue to be concerned with cdancing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u229	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this bill. A year ago, I drove some guys from abroad to Westerplatte. I was ashamed for the infrastructure and for this place, which is unfortunately neglected. [[Come on, stop it. Stop it.]] Westerplatte is history, a symbol of the struggle for dignity, freedom and an example of great valor. [[Let the voivode give the money.]] The purpose of protecting the monument of history... [[The voice from the hall: She's the one to be ashamed of.]] ...is the preservation of unique historical values and for that, Minister, thank you. The meeting of our Pope John Paul II with the Polish youth at this very moment in this time on Westerplatte is gaining even more importance today. Today, values and truths that are trampled and destroyed must be defended. A nation that doesn't know history has no future. [[What rights are being destroyed? What rights are being destroyed?]] I have a question, Minister. How were the talks with President Gdansk and whether there really was a great willingness to cooperate [[♪ The bell ♪]] and kindness for the sake of Poles and history? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u231	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! What I believe connects us in this room is the will to honor this special place for all Poles, a symbol of Polish resistance to the German invader. Right now, I'm asking you to reflect on this. Isn't it appropriate that this place should be developed and celebrated by the World War II Museum, which is less than 3 km from Westerplatte? Isn't it appropriate that we take care of this facility, which is thematically connected to this place? [[And the Museum of Gdansk isn't?]] And finally, the last argument. Remember, this is not the sole property of the local government... [[The voice from the room: Well, certainly not the PiS.]] ...because Westerplatte is a symbol of the whole of Poland. And let me just remind you, before the war, this area was owned by the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish country... [[There it is. And it's not owned by the PiS.]] ...and it was so cleverly taken over by the Polish state. So I'm asking you to reflect like that. [[Applause]] [[Gdansk is in Poland, if you'd like to know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u233	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to calm your emotions. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr Gryglas says: Isn't this the property of the Polish state? [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Mr President, local government is also a Polish country. I think you should know that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Many questions are asked: Why are you doing this? In fact, why are you doing this? Why are you doing this without respecting the principles of social relations? Why are you doing this without respect for the public? From the sacred place, you're making a battlefield of party combat. The answer is probably based on these four years: You want to make your own story. You're talking about the World War II Museum. You just don't like the exhibition the professionals presented. But that's not gonna work, because society isn't dull enough not to know what the real story is. Mr Smolinski asks: Is there a provision in the Act that the authorities of Gdansk will be eliminated from the ceremony? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no bill. Your practice is that it's just the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u235	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u236	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Almost every Pole knows these important words, very symbolic words: Westerplatte defends itself still. This sentence is very relevant today. Westerplatte still defends himself. [[Voice from the room: From whom?]] In front of the oppressive state. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha.]] You want permission when it comes to Westerplatte? Please prepare an amendment of the budget, pass on the special grant to Gdansk for Westerplatte. The whole House will support this project. [[Applause]] If you don't, it means you have impure intentions. That's not enough. You're raping a constitution. Constitution in Article. 15 is unambiguous: The Polish Government ensures the decentralisation of the public authority. And you want to expropriate this piece of Gdansk land as the central authority. Self - government participates in the exercise of authority [[♪ The bell ♪]] public. It's another provision of the Constitution. Local government units have legal personality, they have property rights. Self-reliance, I stress, is subject to judicial protection. And Gdansk will claim his rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u237	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Mazowiecki, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u238	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you something like that. On April 10, 2010, you wanted to drive around Katyn, after the officers. Now, on September 1st, you want to ride Westerplatte. What's going on here? My friend took my article, and I wanted to quote it to you. What's going on here? On April 10, 2010, you drove around Polish officers to start an election campaign. September 1st you want to do the same thing on Westerplatte? Think about what you're doing, and finally apologize to President Gdansk Aleksandra Dulkiewicz for your behavior. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u239	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You repeat here today many times that World War II began at hours. 4.45 Westerplatte. However, it should be recalled that 5 minutes earlier, at 3 p.m. 4.40, September 1, 1939, the first bombs of World War II fell on the dormant and defenseless Wieluń. [[Voice from the room: Take it there.]] Many people are a symbol of German monstrousness and terror. In view of the above, I would like to remind you of the special importance of Wieluń in the historical policy of the Polish state... [[Voice from the room: But we're talking about Westerplatte.]] ...and at the same time ask the Minister to take special account of this place. I would also like to say that this year at 3 p.m. 4.40 ceremonies in Wieluń will have a special rank, because they will be attended by both President Andrzej Duda and the President of Germany. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u241	Thank you very much. And I would very much ask the representative of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski's applicants to answer the questions at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity that the discussion on this project has taken on such an emotional dimension. The Museum of the Second World War had not previously been able to communicate with the Gdansk government in order to take care of this area in any formula or common form, or by buying the land. I'll remind my friends on the Platform that you're asleep. Paul Adamowicz himself admitted that he felt remorse that this area was not properly developed. And unfortunately, aside from that phrase, it didn't happen much there. In response to one of the letters of the resident of the Tricity to the President - this is yesterday's answer - which expenditures were incurred by the Gdansk government on Westerplatte within 10 years, from 2009 to 2019, it was answered that in total the current cost of living was 2,200 thousand. zł, this includes cleanliness, maintaining a cemetery, raking leaves, trimming shrubs, engraving, planting ivy, gardening, service of portable toilets of the type toi toi, illumination, repair, maintenance of the inscription Westerplatte Museum, sorry, the museum of the city of Gdansk, which in turn is maintained in guardhouse No. 1 in 20 years cost 3,800 thousand. zł, of which 1300 thousand. PLN is wages, and for the renovation costs spent for 19 years 114 thousand. zł. With regard to the money that the voivode uses to maintain the grave, from 2012 it was between 5, 6 and 8 thousand, in 2017, it was 12 thousand, in 2018 it was 19 thousand. At the moment, in 2019 no contract has yet been concluded. This grant to maintain the graves of the Westerplatte cemetery may also be granted. [[Half the year is.]] So much for this. Now the answer to the question asked by Mrs Pomaska: Have I responded to the proposal to compromise the President? We had a conference, and I replied that I could not withdraw the bill because the President's only expectation was that as an applicant, I would withdraw the bill. At this stage of the proceeding It's impossible now, isn't it? I can't withdraw this bill on my own. As far as I know, the President has written to the Marshal of the Sejm. I don't know if the Marshal of the Sejm or the president of the club responded to those letters that the president sent to them. [[You know exactly what I'm talking about.]] I got a copy, so there was no other expectation of me. Other expectations were presented, but I think this is a repetition of what was presented to the Minister, so maybe the Minister will respond to that. On the other hand, it is difficult to talk about a compromise if at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure one day we are talking as Members of the applicant, as representatives of the parliamentary club and are challenged by Stalinists, Nazis, etc., and the next day some compromise is proposed. I don't think very many people are gonna believe that this is really the will to cooperate. 'Cause right now, some formula... First, there was a formula for bringing a fetch to the cultural institutions. The story's gone. They're cultural institutions, so you can't bring a fetch. But if the president wants to make a donation to the World War II Museum, he can do so at any time. I think it would be a pleasure to receive this donation. However, the solution in the form of a donation to the Gdańsk Museum does not solve anything. And here is an answer to the attention of the Member who said that the museum of Gdansk is doing this. I would like to remind you that, according to the statutes of the museum of the city of Gdańsk, this museum is not included in the statue of dealing with both Westerplatte and the field of the battle of Westerplatte, but such a record has the statute of the Museum of World War II, because such records were made once. And that is why a branch of the museum is called to handle the Westerplatte area, not the Gdańsk City Museum, which has other statutory purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a completely different vision, and that is a fundamental problem. It's about another vision of this area, this battlefield. [[Who's got a vision?]] Let me remind you that this is a battlefield, as Members have already said. All over the world, everyone is trying to bring the battlefield to the state in which it was during the battle, i.e. the state of it of 7 or 8 September 1939, and unfortunately it is not. There were various reasons for this. First there were the actions of the Germans who made there a branch of the concentration camp Stutthof, where the prisoners were killed. The prisoners also stripped the remaining objects after the battle and built a concentration camp. Some of the objects were undressed. Then, in 1945-1946 - whether the Russians or Poles, it is difficult to say - all these mines, unexploded mines, etc. were thrown in as a result of mining. To the surviving barracks and they were blown up. So this has nothing to do with the battlefield that was there on September 7. There's a dispute going on all the time. The state or many of you think it is necessary to preserve the condition which is, or ruins of these barracks. Ladies and gentlemen, they survived the war. When someone comes in there, they don't even know what that battle looked like. He doesn't know that there was the first attack from the area of the Mewiego Chance, here was the first line of defense, here were the tranches, here was the second line of defense, here was the right guard, here was the third line of defense, there were barracks - that must be told. If anyone comes in there, he has no idea what that battle was like, what Westerplatte's defense looked like. The whole area has been leveled. It's a park building right now. Indeed, these measures, which are issued by the city, serve mainly to maintain this conservation of greenery. We want to rebuild the objects that survived this defense, and they should be rebuilt. This is a beautiful example of Polish defence architecture built by Poles in the 1920s, not by the Germans, not by the Gdansk people, but by the Polish government bought this area and built a beautiful defence architecture there, and it should be shown. We also want to show the Second World War, because the World War II Museum talks about the Second World War on a global scale of 6 years, but there is little about our war in 1939. This must be said because there is still such a concept in public space: the September campaign. This is the repetition of German terms. There was no September campaign, there was a defensive war in 1939, which lasted the longest of all defence wars in other countries outside the Soviet Union. [[That's what we learned at school.]] We're proud of it, and we're not gonna find that out on Westerplatte. We won't know that at Westerplatte. [[We'll find out.]] We want to build a museum like this so that anyone who comes there... And the chubby will be proud, you'll see, the chubby will be proud of the museum... And they will go there, and all Poles, as well as residents from all over the world, who come there and will come in even more numbers, and Gdansk will be proud to have such a beautiful museum. [[Voice from the hall: But we are not against the museum. Who's against the museum? We're not talking about that.]] And we will do it, but there is no guarantee that if we do it together, and that is the expectation of the President, we will be able to find a compromise that some will be rebuilt in such a historical formula, some in some form of light, some in some form of glass. There is a definite difference here, and we will not communicate in this respect. As for the polls, because one of the Members mentioned this, a survey of the Polish Radio Three... [[The voice from the room: What nonsense.]] ...was, for example, quite different, more than 80% of the audience said that they thought that the Polish state should take care of it, so polls do not decide on the legislative process. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, please do not repeat the following: Gdansk mail. Ladies and gentlemen, the post office was German. Polish Post Office was Polish Post Office in Gdansk. So, please use the right formula too. The post office of Gdansk was the mail of the free city, which was de facto German at the time. After all, the NSDAP gained the highest support in the first elections throughout Germany, with more than 50% support, so we really need to be careful about what we say. The Gdańsk Post Office was not Polish. What else? I think the Minister will be able to say more about this, but when it comes to cooperation with local authorities in the field of cultural units, the Ministry has never spent so much money for four years and so many local cultural units have not been left. supported as in the last 4 years, and an example of good cooperation between the Polish state and local governments, which care about their places of remembrance, is, for example, Las Szpęgawski, where the Polish state gave the local government the area in which the local government wants to invest, had a vision, organized money, there is support from the government of such activities, there is such support from actions... [[Then why don't you want to pursue a vision in Gdansk?]] ...because there's good will on the part of the government. There was no good will until yesterday or the day before yesterday. If suddenly, as I repeat, the other side is called the worst and there are examples of nationalization... We're not nationalizing the harvest, are we? Ladies and gentlemen, please read the bill. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: But the area is...]] I want you to review the bill. This area was state-owned... [[Property.]] ...has been communized. [[Property.]] Unfortunately, the local government did not deal properly with this principle of communalisation. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[How much money did you give? How much money did you give?]] I admit it's been cleaned up, it's about garbage. This was taken after the conference I organized with the councilmen. After these photographs appeared, the area was cleaned up. But, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the remnants of the objects that are there, please go in and see all these graffiti with a lot of very insulting words. I'm not going to quote them. It's also a shame that it still exists. You can't function in such a formula. You can't function. [[You're gonna take the security guard.]] There is really a chance to build a good museum there, the use of the territory also of the State Treasury, military unit, Border Guard. For so many years, neither the previous government nor the previous state authorities have been able to communicate with a special military unit or with the Border Guard. There's a possibility right now. Some of the land will be used. The existing power plant from Westerplatte will be made available, and this is an undestructed facility. Warehouse 4 will also be available, the property will not be destroyed. That's not a possibility so far. [[That's nationalization.]] Thanks to this law, these possibilities will arise. So that I would ask you very much to put out your emotions, ladies and gentlemen... [[A voice from the room: Make a deal. Make a deal.]] ...expression. We're not taking anything like we didn't take Piłsudski Square. [[Voice from the room: Make a deal.]] I was there the other day, I didn't see a space hole or anything. [[What do you mean, no?]] There's this square, he exists, and so will Westerplatte, and someone who's going to be there won't even know if it's the territory of the state or the government. If the government wants to leave... I asked President Dulkiewicz that if the local government wants to leave the museum collections that are there, they can stay in the same place, Mr. Director said it was absolutely possible. No one's even gonna notice that something's changed in there. Those emotions that were built here are completely unnecessary. We know many local governments who would be happy to know that the Polish state wants to invest and this is for the benefit of the local government. No one will associate this area with the Polish state later, but with the city of Gdansk. It's always gonna be like this. Gdansk was, is and will be Polish, and now such trials, I don't know... We don't do that. I do not know who is afraid that we want to push Gdansk out of Poland. On our part, at least by the government, there have never been such accusations by Members of Law and Justice. We didn't even think of anything like that. [[Oh, you don't have good intentions.]] This is a matter of assessment, right? Of course, the question of evaluation. So once again, ladies and gentlemen, let's cool our emotions. [[Guilty as charged.]] This area stays in Gdansk, no one's gonna take it away, no one's gonna fence it in the sense that it's gonna be closed to the Gdansk people... [[Only the owner will change.]] ...that you won't be able to go in there. Everyone will have the same access as before. Everyone will be proud of this land, that properly honored are those who died there. I really go there very often and last time I heard what your guide - one, two, three - says that the government wants to tear down the monument, I won't let it, I'll tie myself to this monument, so I ask, why all this stupid stuff in my head? How? Well, the result of your attitude, because you're starting this kind of thing. That's what turns it on. You guys are starting to spin. [[We're the ones who want Westerplatte?]] We don't want to take anything from anyone. Again, I appeal for reason. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I'm in corrigendum mode. One sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u243	Here you are, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u244	Thank you very much, Marshal. One thing I have to say is that it can't be that the Member, the applicant, goes out on the stand and just lies. Mr President, since you are on Westerplatte every week, you have certainly seen the outdoor exhibition and the educational path: the history of Westerplatte is shown, there are beautiful, large pictures. For several years this exhibition has been functioning, perhaps the problem is that it was prepared for the previous directorate, who approached the history of Gdansk and Poland in a reliable way, including the history of Westerplatte. This was prepared during the time of Director Machcewicz, not during the present Director, who is the prospective candidate of the PiS for President of Gdańsk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u245	Thank you very much. [[In corrigendum mode.]] Mr Grabarczyk is still being corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just turning around... [[But what correction?]] Because you misunderstood, I was talking about self-government reform, about the fact that local governments were equipped with property. [[And they neglect their responsibilities.]] You also confirmed that, in the communalization mode, this area became property. Every child will tell you who gives and picks up, he's in hell. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u247	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Jarosław Sellin, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. [[Your Marshal...]] But there is no ad vocem mode, sir. [[Voice from the room: There is no mode.]] The ad vocem mode is gone. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] It's in correction mode, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u248	Thank you, Marshal. But it was the Member who didn't understand me either. There is also a principle, and it is European, the principle of subsidiarity. And there it is said that the stronger does not enter into the law of the weaker if he is able to cope. On the other hand, the subsidiarity principle tells us that a stronger one helps the weaker one if he is unable to cope. We're helping the city of Gdansk... [[Give me a donation...]] [[Big help: take the area.]] ...and beyond the city of Gdansk we will manage this area properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u249	Thank you very much. There you go, now Minister Jarosław Sellin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u250	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I express my gratitude to the group of Members of the Law and Justice for bringing this bill, because it gives us a chance to realize the dreams and needs, I think, of Poles, of Poland as a whole, in order to organize a worthy Westerplatte museum, which we have been trying for several years and various obstacles prevent us from doing so, which I may have a few more words about. But I'm going to start by answering questions specifically addressed to me. Mr Pyzik asked who the Polish Post Museum belongs to. I remind you, like Mr Smolinski, he did to use the right nomenclature, because in pre-war Gdańsk there were Polish Post and Gdańsk Post. The post office of Gdansk was by post of the Free City of Gdansk, by German mail. I do not know why on one of the buildings, newly renovated, in Gdańsk the authorities of the city of Gdańsk decided to recreate the German inscription Postamt. I don't think that's right, and I'm gonna have to say it again. The Polish Post Museum, on the other hand, is indeed the place where Polish posters attacked on 1 September 1939 fought bravely, is a subsidiary of the Gdańsk Museum and responsibility for how this museum looks rests on the Gdańsk Museum, the museum belonging to the city of Gdańsk. It is good that this was asked, because the second question which was addressed to me, Mr Korol, why I did not respond to the historical policy of the city of Gdansk in matters relating to its heritage, including this German heritage. Well, I would like to inform Mr Korol that I have just responded, and it was almost a year ago at the ceremony on 1 September 2018 at the Polish Post Office, just at the annual ceremony there. Seeing that some of the authorities of the city of Gdansk are present at this ceremony, I very cordially asked in my speech - and this was freshly after the death of the famous Gdańsk writer Brunon Zwarry, who throughout his life in his literary work, but also in various public speeches asked for it - not to build any sentiment and positive worship of the Free City of Gdansk. Because such a trend unfortunately in the historical politics of the city of Gdansk is noticed: roundabout of the Free City of Gdansk, settlement of the Free City of Gdansk, hotels somehow strangely called, played border poles, etc. I believe that in the thousand-year history of my beloved city, the proud city of Gdansk, which is the crown on the map of Poland and in the history of the Republic of Poland, especially the First Republic, this fragment of history, the Free City of Gdansk from 1919 to 1939, was one of the most shameful and shameful periods. It was a period in which, unfortunately, the Allies, the powers that decided what Europe would look like after the First World War, mistakenly decided - and this was treated as an excuse for the outbreak of World War II - about the creation of a small country called the Free City of Gdansk, a country aggressively anti-Polish, chauvinist, nationalist, German, where the support for Hitler's power was even stronger at the time of the elections than in Germany. The atmosphere was there, for example. when these posters were arrested and driven through the streets of Gdansk, the people of Gdansk, the Free City of Gdansk, spontaneously beat and spit on them. Therefore, I suggest that such sentiment and worship around the Free City of Gdańsk do not create. [[Applause]] Mr Smolinski asked whether the law regulates the organisation of the annual celebrations held there on 1 September. In fact, in a few words, this theme also appeared. No, ladies and gentlemen, these are two separate cases. The law regulates the possibility of building the Westerplatte Museum and the Defence War 1939, while the anniversary of the outbreak of World War II has been organized for 21 years by the local government of Gdańsk and I am grateful to him for that. I also mentioned this at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure that such a tradition had developed, that always on 1 September at 3 p.m. 4.45 The local government of Gdańsk organizes celebrations, but also participates in them the highest state authorities. This will also be the case this year due to the round anniversary. And one thing has nothing to do with the other. The objectives of this law have nothing to do with this anniversary. Here I must add, unfortunately, that this special act, our will to build a worthy outdoor museum, came also from the fact that unfortunately we have the impression that the authorities of Gdańsk about Westerplatte remembered only one day a year, i.e. September 1st at 3 p.m. 4.45. The state of this place, for which the main part is responsible in the territorial and ownership sense of the city of Gdansk, indicates that for 364 days a year, except on 1 September at hours. 4.45, the city of Gdansk did not remember this place very much. In his time, for being neglected, he also apologized. Paweł Adamowicz. There were also questions about proposals for the city of Gdansk, which were formulated during my meeting with President Dulkiewicz a week ago, both sides of the proposal. This conversation took place in a good spirit. Both Madam President and I have agreed that this should be something that should not be between us. I confirmed it in writing today in a special letter to President Dulkiewicz. I received such a letter from President Dulkiewicz on Monday. The proposals are as follows. Firstly, we propose that the Honorary Committee of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Wars enter a strong representation indicated by the city of Gdansk. It is about people who will influence the shape of this museum in the end. The concepts are on one side and on the other side, on the side of the Museum of World War II and on the side of the Museum of Gdańsk. I admit it. They are sometimes converging, sometimes divergent. It would be worthwhile for both the Ministry and the city of Gdansk to delegate the right number of people, most likely experts, historians, museums and also combatants, to such an honorary committee to discuss and develop the final shape of such a museum. This is an offer that's on the table. Secondly, we propose that Gdańsk finally delegate its representative to the World War II Museum Council. This counsel has been in operation for two years now, and the city, despite repeated requests from us, has not delegated anyone to this counsel. Look at the composition of this advice. There are outstanding historians, prominent museums, leaders of the combatant environments, and the city of Gdansk, despite our requests, did not delegate anyone to this World War II Museum Council. However, it would be good to be in this council and have an influence on what the whole Museum of World War II is doing, not just its subsidiary, the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War. I encourage you to do that. Finally, the third proposal that the city of Gdansk, and preferably President Dulkiewicz herself, should enter the Honorary Committee of Witold Pilecki's Monument to Witold Pilecki's Monument, because such a monument on the initiative of the Museum of World War II will be revealed in Gdansk. The daughter of Witold Pilecki entered this honorary committee, entered the Gdańsk Metropolitan, entered the Marshal of the Pomeranian Voivodeship Mieczysław Strug, a member of the Civic Platform, entered the Pomeranian Voivodeship, entered an IPN representative. The president was asked to do the same. She didn't answer that request, but I repeated that request. I hope that the President will join this honorary committee as well. The president, in turn, asked to withdraw from the specialty and co-host the Westerplatte Museum, which is the Ministry along with the city. My answer is this. First, the special act regulates the entire property problem in Westerplatte. In this small area there are many owners, not only the city of Gdansk. In order to build this museum really effectively and well, you have to solve the whole problem of ownership, and not just the problem of this part, this 1/5 area, although crucial from the point of view of the drama of the battle that took place there, which is today on the management board of the city of Gdansk. The main part of this area is the management of the Treasury run by the city of Gdansk. Retreating from this specialty will not simply solve the problem of the possibility of building this museum. This is a comprehensive solution to the owner's problem. And when it comes to co-hosting, I remind Members of the Civic Platform, also in this letter to President Dulkiewicz, that it is not someone else, but Prime Minister Donald Tusk and the Minister of Culture Bogdan Zdrojewski, who decided that the World War II Museum would be a museum which had one organizer. This organiser is the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. At that time there were no proposals or demands from the city of Gdansk that it would be a museum co-financed by the city of Gdansk. You're a little late to wake up. [[Better late than never.]] The Minister of Culture is changing. This is due to the election verdict of Poles. [[And that's why you're taking Westerplatte? It's illogical.]] However, in order to manage or manage this investment efficiently, it would be better to maintain this organizational structure, ownership structure. [[But you want to take Westerplatte.]] We don't want to take it. Westerplatte is part of the Polish state. The Polish state has its government elected in democratic elections. Mr Plocke asked about other commemorations, including in Pomerania. This question was even a little painful for me, because my grandfather Felix Bach died on September 13, 1939. I would just like to draw Mr Plocke's attention to the fact that the museum we want to build is called the Westerplatte Museum and the Defensive War of 1939. Finally, there will be a place where you can also talk about the incredibly bloody battle of Kępa Oxywska, about defending Hel. If there is any accusation that we do not remember this at all, I will remind you, on whose initiative a pantheon of Polish sailors in Oxywiu was organized, that such a pantheon would arise, who brought the corpse of the Helu Adm's defence commander. Unruga, who also brought other officers from different places scattered in Poland and around the world to stay there. Somehow before 2015, no one thought about it, and we're not thinking about it. We did. [[Applause]] Mrs Dziuk asked what the talks with the President looked like, what will they do. I feel like I've already answered that question. However, I must react to the wrong opinion, and even, it can be said, the disgraceful words that Mr Mazowiecki said that someone was going to Katyn on April 10, 2010 to ride the officers. You've said it twice. And now we want to ride the Westerplatte soldiers. So I remind you that you signed up for a parliamentary club, from which important politicians - from PSL - took part on this flight on 10 April, and they certainly did not drive around officers, but went to celebrate the 70th anniversary of Katyn's murder on behalf of the Polish state. And all of them participated above divisions, also parliamentarians of the Civic Platform, the head of the Polish state, was the head of the Polish state on exile, all commanders of all types of Armed Forces of the Republic. It's what you call running over officers. I must say that I have great respect for your father's historical merits, but when I hear what you have said now, and what you said at the Committee on Infrastructure, I must say that sometimes the famous proverb that an apple falls not far from an apple has to be corrected, because sometimes it falls very far away. [[Applause]] Here, too, it is said that we cannot cooperate with Gdansk, as shown by this tension, this completely unnecessary conflict in the Westerplatte case. I think Mrs Pomaska asked such a question from the parliamentary jury. I would like to remind you that we are co-hosting the National Museum in Gdansk with the city of Gdansk. I would like to remind you that we are co-hosting with the city of Gdansk Coast Theatre and somehow I do not see protests that we dare to finance or co-operate with these institutions. Nor do I hear protests when we give tens of millions of zlotys, 20 million zlotys, to renovate the Basilica of Mariacka. Nor do I hear protests from the city of Gdansk, when we give several million zlotys to renovate the church of St. Joseph. I do not hear protests of the city of Gdansk and the Museum of Gdansk, which is also with us in an unnecessary dispute when we give serious money for the renovation and reconstruction of the Fortress of Wisloujście, a branch of the Gdansk Museum. And recently we decided that we would allocate serious funds to the Gdańsk Museum for the development of a new catalogue of war losses that the Gdańsk Museum suffered in various branches during World War II. I can't hear the protests of the city of Gdansk when we give several million zlotys to the Gdansk forts on Hevelianum. Nor do I hear protests from the city of Gdansk when we declare the transfer of funds and already give the first funds to rescue the church at St. Santa Claus, who is in danger of collapse, and funds for the church of St. Peter and Paul, who had recently been on fire. I have this feeling that you can cooperate in all these matters, so why can't you cooperate in the Westerplatte case? The offer is financially generous, the concept is to be agreed, concepts lie and can simply be confronted with each other, and I think that in the interests of Poland, Poles, but also the world, because the world knows about Westerplatte and recognizes this place, it is to build together the Museum of Westerplatte and Wars 1939. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For a quarter of a century of management of this area by the city of Gdansk, this city did not realize it, so we, on the basis of subsidiarity, want to do it together with Gdansk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u251	Thank you very much. In correcting, please, Mr Michał Mazowiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u252	Thank you kindly, Marshal. High Seym! I have received an answer from the honourable Minister of Culture. I know why you're doing this. I got it. You want to fight us all. And what you said: never again will war succeed. You want to fight us all. You want to make us all eat. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Corrigendum.]] [[That's a corrigendum?]] No, that's the answer to my question to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u253	Thank you very much. And last, in the procedure of correcting Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u254	Minister! You yourself gave examples of cultural units in Gdansk, which are co-led by the Ministry of Culture and the City of Gdansk. If we're talking about the Westerplatte area and the new museum that's supposed to be built or built there, then that will is gone. There is no willingness to cooperate, there is no proposal to create a unit together and lead it, so that you co-finance such an investment, while you want to take Westerplatte territory and manage it through the World War II Museum. No one has a grudge, and no one today wants to rule and impose anything despite many critical remarks and reasons that would probably be found in order to impose something on the director of Nawrocki, the director of the World War II Museum. However, there is no willingness to cooperate with Gdansk on this matter. The problem is that, in the case of your proposal, which is not actually there, you can't see the will to cooperate. So please, and I urge you to think about it so that you can sit down at the table. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And at least a little bit of good faith. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u255	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, as corrected. But please, in this mode, because we're finishing this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u256	Thank you very much. Minister! Please do not manipulate the facts, because indeed Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Minister Zdrojewski, as the leading authority, made their appointments in the World War II Museum, only that, at that time, there was no mention of it and this was not part of the Westerplatte area. And don't state that we're suddenly awake now and that we're too late. At the time it was a completely different museum. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u257	Thank you very much. Just a second, Minister. Mr Michał Szczerba, as corrected. And then the Minister, the rapporteur, and we finish this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u258	Dear Marshal! Minister! I hope that at the moment, using the opportunity to answer, you will answer the question, however, what about the conclusion of the competition for the position of the director of the Museum of the History of Polish Jews Polin. It is also an institution co-chaired by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. The 15-member committee appointed by the Minister has decided and elected Professor Dariusz Stoli to this post for a five-year term. This is an institution that was created not only by public funds; here I am thinking about the means of the Ministry of Culture and the means of m.st. Warsaw. [[Ad rem.]] Private donors are also concerned about this situation. I have a right to know and I would like a concrete response from the Minister today, when Professor Dariusz Stoli will be appointed and when this temporary term will end.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u259	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u260	This museum has a role that the Minister, I hope, appreciates as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u261	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u262	Will your marshal allow me to answer that question, aside from correcting it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u263	You're welcome. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Mr. Speaker! Nothing disturbing is happening at the Museum of the History of Polish Jews Polin. The museum has a good B.O. Director of Mr Zygmunt Sędnieński, who was a longtime vice-director of this museum and was designated as acting by Professor Stola. But you're right, the contest has been held, the contest decision is, the minutes of the contest committee's meeting were sent to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. The Minister has the right to decide in due course on the recognition of the results of this competition after having read these protocols, so it is necessary to wait patiently. On the other hand, I wanted to comment on what Mrs Chmiel said. Well, honourable Member, it has already been mentioned here that in 2003 your coalitionist in the last European elections, i.e. President Alexander Kwasniewski, entered the battlefield at Westerplatte as a monument to history on an exclusive list, then probably counting 40 seats - today it is already over 100 places - indeed the most important in Poland. It was a signal that the battlefield at Westerplatte should be interested in the Polish state as a whole. Therefore, when we took power in the years 2005-2007, we appointed a representative of the voivode for the revitalization of Westerplatte and the preparation of the concept of such a museum. Even on September 1, 2007, we announced that such a museum was created as a branch of the Museum of Polish History. Then we lost power, but it seemed for a while, already under your rule, that there was some hesitation in the Westerplatte case. On 1 September 2008, the Minister of Culture Bogdan Zdrojewski established the Westerplatte Museum, only that after a few months, its name was changed to the World War II Museum and it was decided that the World War II Museum would be located completely elsewhere - where it is located today, built, already functioning - and the Westerplatte Museum was again forgotten. This is still the case today - except that the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War have actually been established as a subsidiary of the World War II Museum carried out four seasons of archaeological research in Westerplatte - no one had ever thought of that before - digging up 50,000. Artifacts, of which several thousand are suitable for a permanent exhibition. These are very exciting things, and the authorities of Gdansk tried to hinder the conduct of these archaeological studies. Who is showing good will here, Member? [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Jan Kilian, rapporteur for the committee very briefly. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Most of the questions that were addressed to me as rapporteur were properly answered by the Minister, Mr Smolinski, the applicant. There was a lot of excitement about the lack of order in this area. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska asked what it looked like during the committee meeting. Well, I just want to remind you that in the committee's meeting there were a lot of guests who did not only witness with words but also with photographs the state in which the peninsula was on the day of the committee's meeting on 18 June. I myself went to Westerplatte a few days later and found that it was all true. Indeed, when I was there for the second time last Sunday, I found an orderly area. It wasn't trash, it's true, I even took some pictures as a souvenir. Well? I mean, it's been about the last few years, not... This condition lasted for a long time. It's about taking over the harvest. Of course, we are only talking about the ownership of the area, as the Minister mentioned. After all, there are many owners, and in order to approach work very realisticly, these matters need to be sorted out. All exhibits, etc., what is owned by the museum remains the property of the museum. What will be found - because archaeological works, I hope, will be resumed - will be the property of the museum. It's actually all my fault. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u265	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] We proceed with the examination of item 7 on the agenda: Report from the Commission on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Supporting the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws (Prints No 3484 and 3545). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, print No 3545 on the Government's draft law amending the law on the promotion of the development of telecommunications services and networks and some other laws, seym print No 3484. The project entered the Sejm on 28 May 2019 and Mr Marshal addressed it to the first reading in the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies on 3 June. On 10 June, the committee received a positive opinion on the draft law from the Office for Sejm Analysis. The first reading was held on 26 June. Drafting amendments were proposed during the first reading, which were notified by the Legislative Bureau. The amendments were accepted by the committee. I would like to say a few words about this extremely important project. The aim of the draft law on amending the law on the promotion of the development of telecommunications services and networks and some other laws is to increase the access of citizens and entrepreneurs to modern telecommunications services. In particular, the further expansion of modern fibre networks, especially in digitally excluded areas, i.e. rural and suburban areas. In a broader context, the aim is to enable our country and economy to develop through digitalisation and modern technologies. The project concerns inter alia, firstly, the acceleration of the investment and construction process for telecommunications infrastructure, secondly, the reduction of construction costs and the operation of modern telecommunications networks, thirdly, the increase of the possibility of using existing technical infrastructure for telecommunications purposes, including the reduction of access costs. I have to admit that a government-designed project solves many problems and eliminates those barriers that have been identified for more than 10 years and have not been solved so far, such as. the reduction of maximum tolls for the occupation of road lane for telecommunications infrastructure. The Ministry of Digitalization was able - it is worth noting - to get a positive opinion from the local government on these actions, these changes. A draft law besides the liquidation of the so-called. White spots on fibre access also apply to mobile networks. In this respect, it responds in particular to the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber taken at its meeting on the basis of a recent audit of public authorities' activities in the field of protection against electromagnetic radiation from mobile telephone devices. The draft law takes into account the issues raised by NIK, which only demonstrates the completeness and need of these regulations. At the first reading of the draft law in the committee, the government presented the justification of the project fairly and it should be fully agreed with Minister Wanda Buk that it is a modern law for modern time. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology, I recommend that the High Sejm adopt the report in accordance with the submission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u267	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the law on the promotion of the development of telecommunications services and networks and certain other laws. The aim of the project is to increase citizens' access to modern telecommunications services and broadband Internet access eliminates digitally excluded areas, including rural areas. Digitisation provides the economy with growth and stimulates growth in areas without these opportunities. The solutions adopted are based on the objectives of the Responsible Development Strategy by 2020 (with a view to 2030) and the recommendation of the European Commission Communication Links to a competitive digital single market: towards a European gigabit society. Access to broadband internet should be made widely available by 2015 at a much higher rate than so far. The project contains solutions that will facilitate and speed up the implementation of the investment and construction process. It contains regulations that provide access to information on electromagnetic radiation emissions in the environment in connection with the construction and modernisation of mobile networks. The draft law is compatible with European Union law. The proposed regulation will not require notification to the European Commission under the Law of 30 April 2004 on State aid procedures. The proposal does not require it to be submitted to the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union, including the European Central Bank, in order to obtain an opinion, to notify, consult or agree. The Act published in the Official Journal will be passed to the European Commission as a national implementing measure. On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I strongly recommend the above. the law and I submit nine amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u269	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Carrot on behalf of the Civic Coalition Civil Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u270	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The Internet accompanies us today at every moment of our lives and is something inherent for us in the 21st century. The construction and development of telecommunications networks is a great challenge that we face. The construction of this network will, of course, serve to implement the fifth generation of Internet. It is a network that will not only involve the possibility of using the faster Internet, but will also provide an opportunity to improve the quality of life of citizens. The fifth generation Internet will offer opportunities for developing telemedicine, public transport, use of autonomous cars or entertainment. Playing videos in 4k quality will be something that will be obvious thanks to this fast network. Therefore, it must be said explicitly that the fifth generation Internet is an opportunity, a great opportunity for development, also economic development, and not any threat. And that's what we have to say to each other directly. We need to take advantage of this opportunity that modern technologies give us. And in order to implement these technologies, we need to carry out well projects related to the construction of the network. The draft of this law has many assumptions that are worth paying attention to. Of course, those that are positive include, first, the reduction of the toll for the occupation of road traffic in the implementation of telecommunications investments, second, free access to the vertical infrastructure belonging to local authorities, such as lanterns, stops or road signs. Other issues are important. But attention should also be paid to aspects that require some clarification. He is appointed here, among others. so-called. The Wideband Fund and the Wideband Fund as an idea are right, but the law does not clearly specify which entities, to whom the money will be collected, will be transferred as part of the fund. This should be clarified and we will call for such an amendment. That's one thing. Secondly, as was pointed out in the public consultation process - telecoms companies have said about it - too much red tape is being proposed in the context of the reports on the inventory of these networks. So far this has been done once a year, so today, according to the new proposal, it will be done at least twice a year, which, of course, involves the destiny of special resources, not only human but also financial, to implement these issues, so it would be burdensome for entrepreneurs. And since the law talks about supporting the development of services and networks, then why implement solutions that are not conducive to development, but even when introducing bureaucracy, they contribute to the fact that much more time and money must be spent on things that have nothing to do with the development of the network. And the third thing I'd like to draw your attention to. - the fifth generation of Internet cannot be implemented without changes in the impact of the magnetic field and without the definition of acceptable standards. Today, these standards are almost a hundred times higher than in many countries of the European Union and apply to the 1980s, when radio communications were somehow regulated by the communist regime and hence these restrictions were taken. This needs to be clearly changed. Until now, an integral part of the many draft laws that have entered the Sejm have been regulations. In this case, it's not there. This is interesting, because in order to take advantage of this opportunity and implement modern solutions, there must be clarity and certainty that these standards will be changed. This raises the question of how it will be, how it will be implemented and implemented in the future. With regard to details, of course, in the package of several amendments on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition I will pass on these comments, which concern, among others. issues raised by telecommunications undertakings and telecommunications chambers in the context of a public consultation. These are technical amendments that we will probably be discussing at the committee meeting. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Act offers great opportunities and better opportunities for the operation and construction of telecommunications networks, so we are inclined to support its project. At the same time, I'm handing over to your marshal a package of amendments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which I would like to justify during the committee's work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u271	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Masławski will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present our position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Support for the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws, print No 3484. As you know, I am in favour of not prolonging Sejm meetings by repeating the statements of my predecessors. Quite a lot of things have been said, and that's good. On the other hand, since this is a very important subject from a social point of view, let me say so briefly that the law clearly clarifies the concepts of building law, the procedure for reporting electromagnetic radiation installations and the issue of public participation in this process. It welcomes and deserves to be commended for the reduction of the maximum tolls for the occupation of the road and the reduction of the fixed fee for the entry of service in the perpetual book. It is obvious that the law deals with many things, it is intended to introduce broadband, a fifth-generation network. And as my previous speakers have already said, the fifth generation network brings more benefits than threats because it is autonomous cars, whether it is primarily about eliminating white spots, because the main aim of this project is to increase the access of citizens and entrepreneurs to modern telecommunications services, including broadband Internet, especially in areas that are digitally excluded, most often in rural areas. In a broader context, the aim is to provide incentives for the economy as a whole through effective digitalisation. E.g. This bill, these regulations will, I hope, eliminate these white spots on the map of Poland. As my previous speakers mentioned, it is somewhat controversial and curious that we have not seen, that we have not yet learned these regulations, because issues concerning electromagnetic field emissions should be clarified. There is absolutely no discussion here about whether it is radiation in itself - I am not talking about issues related to the law here - it is good or not. It is not about whether I, Mr Marchewka or Mr Sachajka like it. It's about the fact that this should all be consulted with citizens. As you know - this is not a secret - many people have expressed concern about the 5G network. I think that all of us, both the parliament and the ministry or the government, could have done the whole process a little bit better. We should focus mainly on education to make people aware of the dangers, to listen to their opinions, to their concerns, to clarify the rules and to calm the social moods. I think we could convince our citizens that there are more than negatives in this educational effort. These are the advantages I mentioned earlier, i.e. Autonomous cars, fast data transmission or medicine at a completely different level. Ladies and gentlemen, in a moment's time, my colleague, Mr Sachajko, will present some amendments on which we may be making our vote on the bill dependent. We are a citizens' movement, and since citizens have asked us to do something, it does not matter whether I or Mr Sachaiko support the 5G network. We must represent citizens, as you do, and we will therefore ask that these amendments be examined at the committee meeting today. I would like to thank you very much at this point. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u273	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, also on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You've got one minute left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As Mr Masłowski has just mentioned, we are a citizens' movement and we believe that if citizens have any doubts, they must be resolved before the law is adopted. Apart from increasing the availability of telecommunications services, which Poles are waiting for - we can see that the level of data transmission has been increased 57 times in 2010 and this is necessary - it should also ensure that the risks are eliminated. The NIK and Environmental Inspection reports show that we have a total mess in the telecommunications infrastructure. We cannot allow this to happen, and in this bill we agree to do so. It is very imprecise. There are wordings: slight influence, close range, small device, low power. Ladies and gentlemen, that doesn't mean anything. For someone close to it is 100 m, for someone else 1000 m. For someone, a small power is 1 mw, for someone else it's 10 or 100 mw. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can't do this. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, we have prepared a number of amendments which we ask to accept. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u275	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform the High House that Mr Kazimierz Kotowski's statement on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats has been received in writing. I would ask Mr Robert Majka to speak on behalf of the Confederation's Parliamentary Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u276	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, There's no Prime Minister. On behalf of the circle of the Confederation of the Republic of Poland, I wanted to draw attention to the very important statement of the Minister of Government in Brussels, who said on 5G technology as follows: I cannot welcome such technology if the radiation standards that must protect the citizen are not respected. The people of Brussels are not guinea pigs whose health I can sell at a profit. We cannot have any doubts about this. I would like to remind you of the Parliamentary Interpellation on 5G technology, which I made as the first Member in this Parliament. Minister Zagórski to my question as to whether Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will be personally responsible for the implementation of this technology... Mr Zagórski's response was, in my opinion, inappropriate. Let me get this straight. He didn't answer my question. This shows a lack of responsibility in this matter. Like Minister Céline Fremault of the Government in Brussels, which I referred to, our prime ministers and ministers should also make a clear and concrete response to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from my humble person, there are also other people in Poland who also disagree with the unclear approach of this technology and have their concerns. These are among others. Mr Zbigniew Gelzok President of the Association Right to Life, Mrs Maria Kozminska, Mrs Ewa Wójcik, Mrs Justyna Czarnota, Mr Tobias Żychowicz, Mrs Agata Ratajczak and Mr Rafik Ennaoui. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a joke. Finally, I will ask the Minister a very important question. Namely, the citizens of the Polish state, especially women, asked me very much to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister if this technology does not adversely affect the life and health of women, especially pregnant women, and the development of the human fetus. As long as we do not have an expert document on the safety of 5G technology, in my view and in the Confederation's view it is important to consider very seriously the further implementation of this technology. Once again, I stress: the issue of developing technology in Poland, including 5G technology, is very important and I am far from rejecting all concepts that are pro-development in terms of economy, defence of the state, etc. But it must be a question of security, it must be 100 percent certainty of the citizens of the Polish state. Therefore, on behalf of the Confederate wheel, I propose five amendments to this project. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, Minister. There you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Sachajko asked for the floor in a corrective manner. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just wanted to make a brief correction to what Mr Majka just said, because he said that he was the first Member to make an interpellation on 5G... [[You were the first.]] ...and this is unfortunately a big mistake. The first Member was Mr Sachaiko. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u279	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform the High House that 12 Members have joined the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the questioning list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Please ask Mr Paweł Arndt, the Civic Platform Club, the Civic Coalition, as the first question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to address my questions to the Minister of Health, but it seems that the Minister of Health is not in the Chamber, so maybe the Minister will be able to answer. This is about the problem that we talked about here before. We are also amending the Environmental Law in this Act and we read that the Minister responsible for Health, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Information Technology, will determine, by means of a regulation, the different acceptable levels of electromagnetic fields in the environment for residential areas and places accessible to the population. I would like to ask: Is this regulation ready, or is the draft regulation already known, if not the regulation itself, and what do these acceptable levels of electromagnetic fields really look like? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u281	Thank you very much. I invite you to the speaker of Mr Piotr Pyzik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to raise in my question the issues that have already been raised, the health ones, but a little bit in a different way. Minister! New telecommunications technologies are a critical part of a major leap in industry, transport, movement of people, goods and services. According to many experts, this field is becoming an increasingly important field of competition in global politics, and even part of a conflict at stake with dominance. In the media area, especially social media, it is noticeable that doubts about the negative effects on health and biological life of electromagnetic fields, which are a consequence of the use of wireless communications, are raised. Given the above-mentioned circumstances, does the government provide for wide-ranging information campaigns on this subject, which will enable society to be protected from manipulations that may be allowed by stakeholders who are interested in triggering specific reactions, both politically and businessly motivated? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u283	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Jarosław Goncier, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The fifth generation mobile technology, also known as 5G, also has many opponents. The most common arguments relate to the impact of 5G electromagnetic field on health. The draft law states that, according to the European Commission's communication, each country of the European Union is obliged to have in 2025 undistorted access to the 5G network in all urban areas and on all major transport routes. In this context, I have a question: Does the Ministry have knowledge of the implementation of 5G networks in other countries of the European Union, in particular Central Europe, and will attempts be made to develop uniform standards for electromagnetic fields for all countries of the European Union? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u285	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two simple, very precise questions. The first is about what a little power means in the bill, so we know what it means. And second question: What does low impact on the landscape mean? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u288	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. Why was the bill not accompanied by a regulation of the Minister of Health amending standards on electromagnetic radiation, without which the implementation of this modern technology will not be possible? And second question. Minister, is it necessary to reduce these standards in order to implement this technology and simply liberalize them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Mężydło, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As far as broadband costs are concerned, I take this as a personal mission. And as for the tolls on the road lane, I fought for this in my last term of office. Most regional broadband networks are owned by Marshals' offices, which, because they cannot find themselves on the telecommunications market, cannot sell their broadband infrastructure. For them, however, these rates are a huge cost. Now that you're changing these rates, you're lowering them significantly, you've left the fifth amendment in Article. 2, which sustains old rates for current networks. On the other hand, the rapporteur spoke about the fact that we want to reduce not only the costs of building new broadband networks but also the operation of these networks. That is why I am making an amendment on behalf of [[♪ The bell ♪]] And with the approval of my club so that this point 5 in article. Strike 2 out. I think that this will be accepted because we are walking in the spirit that the rapporteur was talking about, of course, with regard to what the justification prepared by the Ministry of Digital Affairs is saying. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u291	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u292	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As it has already sounded in the hall, Poles expect the development of communication infrastructure. I'm sure this bill will be conducive to the development of this network. On the other hand, there is also a heated discussion on the health impact of the development of the network on social networks. And I have a question: Minister, are there any legitimate concerns about the 5G network? If so, say so. I have one more suggestion and such a question: are you planning a wide campaign on social networks that would dispel any doubts and concerns, because it seems that various myths, legends have grown around this topic, and it would be appropriate to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just disperse and explain. I think it's a campaign that's very important, and that's where we should start. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u293	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the European Commission's guidelines, we should choose one city by 2021 in which the 5th generation pilot network programme will be launched. Has it already been chosen and if not, then at what stage is the process of identifying this city? And second question. You can't run a 5G network without accessing the 700 MHz band. There are various services of our neighbors on these bands at our eastern border. At what stage are negotiations with the Russian Federation to make this band available and to use it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u295	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz,15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In preparing for today's point, I found in one of the old newspapers this article, that the inhabitants of one of the villages in 1945 protested because electrification was to threaten fire. I have the impression that this whole discussion is a little bit like this debate about electrification, which was supposed to be dangerous. I do not know what is more dangerous, mobile phone in the hands of an annual child and fun in front of his monitor, watching TV meter in front of a large plasma TV or using Wi-Fi in every hotel and city points. In fact, I have a big dilemma, Minister, and if you had a record of what it looks like with the harmfulness, because I feel like there's a 5G war today... [[There isn't, there isn't.]] ...and moms, parents hurt their children today, here and now, in their homes, using electronic gadgets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u297	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u298	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, technological progress is inevitable, that is for the majority, and maybe for everyone it is obvious, but it is not my opinion that we should ignore the concerns raised by organizations, by people, also by specialists who talk about electromagnetic smog, that is, the harmfulness of electromagnetic radiation. I wanted to ask the Minister about the fact that Polish coalition, which is also 5G-free - not only her, because also in Krakow, where I come from, many people are involved - says that the International Agency for Research on Cancer of the World Health Organization classified radio waves emitted by mobile base stations and wireless devices such as Wi-Fi router, mobile phone or wireless home phone as possible carcinogens. It's a serious concern. Are you planning on it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the introduction of in-depth research after the introduction of 5G networks, or is it simply treated as a closed case because there is no need for such research? I think it's important to see this in further action plans. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u299	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question will be asked by Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the so-called assumptions. mega-rules are right, investment incentives in low-population areas are also very interesting and beneficial. Nevertheless, Minister, High Izbo, I regret that you have brought the debate on this point, on this issue to health issues which, although important, with all due respect, are not the most important issue in this law. In modern economies, ladies and gentlemen, the broadband internet network, the Internet, is crucial to state security, which is why I ask: should this not be the issue that should play an absolutely prime role here? I also wanted to ask if the government envisaged the introduction of mechanisms that would synchronize [[♪ The bell ♪]] infrastructure works carried out on telecommunications networks, because, dear country, it is sometimes so that one street is dug up three times. This causes great chaos and nuisance for the inhabitants and is also economically unjustified. I'd like an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u301	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the government, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Minister Wanda Buk, will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u302	Good morning. [[Good morning.]] Dear Marshal! Dear Members, First of all, I wanted to start by thanking you very much for these positive opinions about the bill. Today we have published the results of the study "E-Polish" which indicate that 84% Poles use Internet access on a daily basis. Interestingly, it turned out that 86% This group continues to choose access to the mobile network while wanting to use the fixed network. As you know, we have almost 5 million white spots in Poland today. We managed to cover almost 2 million of these 5 million investments. It is about households that, today and potentially in a 15-year perspective, could not have access to broadband. On the other hand, there are still 3 million that, in the present reality, without the changes that we propose in the law, as I said, would not be able to benefit from broadband access within the next 15 years. This is a huge scale of exclusion. This is what we need to face, and that is what we need to change, the more that this is happening mainly in small cities, in villages, where housing is scattered, and today the telecommunications network is not only an integral part of the life of every Pole - it is also a pillar of the economy, which has been said many times here. Allow me, in answer to questions, to begin with the last question, and more constancy, Mr Cieślinski... [[It's the most important thing.]] ...who said that he regretted that today this discussion was brought to health rather than to what is the subject of this law. I, too, regret that we are not focusing on what this law introduces and what we really need to discuss. By answering the other substantive questions... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] For the next question, sir, I'll be back. To answer the first question, Mr Arndt, who asked about the change of delegation and whether the regulation setting limits on electromagnetic field intensity is ready, I would like to say - although there is no Minister for Health - that it is precisely because of the position of the Ministry of Health who asked him to give him time to prepare for this regulation, to carry out appropriate measures, to carry out appropriate studies, to decide that this will be postponed in time. We're gonna give the ministry time, the department, to prepare themselves honestly and competently. Here, as additional questions have been raised regarding the change of delegation, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is our response to social demands and the fact that the use of the mobile network may have an impact on health, which is repeated in public space. If this can affect people's health, it should certainly be the minister responsible for public health. To answer Mr Pyzik's question, whether we are planning an information campaign, whether we are planning a fight against misinformation... In fact, there is a very wide-ranging disinformation action. We all know that today technology is building an advantage, building the strength of the country. Every country wants this technology to be the first. If any country stops, it's better for another country. Of course, we are planning, not only planning, but we are already carrying out information activities and fighting, we are trying to combat disinformation, from which we also draw very strongly, cynically, some, some part of the society, which is simply building business on these fears. Some of you may have had the pleasure of familiarizing yourself with the content of the White Paper, which we have published as the Ministry of Digitalization in cooperation with the Institute of Communications and the College Medicum UJ, while it is only one of the elements. We will, of course, continue to fight disinformation. Mr Gonciusz concluded that people were afraid of the 5G network and asked if we had any knowledge of what the fifth generation of networks were like in other countries and if there was any chance that standards would be harmonised at European Union level. To answer your question... With regard to your conclusions, I would like to draw your attention to one thing. In fact, today this fear of the fifth generation network is generated, and it is so unjustified that if we are afraid of the fifth generation of networks, we should also be afraid of the fourth generation of networks, third generation networks, 2G networks and even 1G networks, because these are exactly the same physical phenomena that are used in all generations of networks. We can't underestimate our fears. Everyone has the right to be concerned, especially when it comes to his life and health. We have to answer them. But it's always worth to straighten it out. If we are afraid of the 5G network, then let us be afraid of mobile telephony at all, the telephone we have been using in Poland since the beginning of the 1990s, because nothing changes in this respect. Please note that in exactly the same way radio waves will be used after the introduction of the fifth generation network, which in large simplification is a network that simply has a different architecture, which does not focus on the construction of large base stations, but will function on the basis of micro- and picnic cells. What is the fifth generation of networks in other countries? More than 1 million users in South Korea today have the opportunity to use 5G networks. In several cities of the United States there is also this possibility. Today I read the information that in the coming year in Germany 20 cities are to be covered by the fifth generation network. Today, the fifth generation network is being launched in Switzerland. On the other hand, when it comes to our country, we are at the stage of pilot tests. Currently in Poland there are several tests, for example 17. The question was whether there would be harmonised standards at European Union level. I'm not familiar with these initiatives. This was left to the Member States for decision. I don't know anything about that when it comes to changing things. Mr Marchewka asked why there was no regulation on the intensity of the electromagnetic field. I've already answered that question. Is it necessary, in the case of 5G, to reduce the liberalisation of restrictive standards in force since 1984? Mr President, let me rephrase this. If we want to use the mobile telephone network, given how much data transmission increases, adapting the standards to the current state of research is necessary, even when using the 4G network. Today, most of you, entering our capital, probably experienced a situation when data transmission slows down. That's because the systems that work today are clogging themselves. They have a certain capacity, too. It was said here, I do not remember which of you said this, that 7 times from the very beginning the amount of data transmitted has increased. Mr President, I would like to say that this amount of data transmitted has increased 24 times. She will still grow really, really dynamically. [[30 times in 10 years.]] I answer Mr Man's question. Mr President, we have been discussing for a very long time the solution to the rates for already functioning networks. And there's one thing we have to say to each other here. If we introduced an obligation to lower rates for already built networks, but only for regional broadband networks, it would be public aid which needs notification. I do not rule out that such notification should be made. However, I admit that I do not fully agree with the concept of reducing all other operators who operate commercially, who at high rates have decided to invest in a given area, because this means that it was profitable for them. Of course, a completely different situation concerns regional broadband networks, which can only provide wholesale services which do not operate in this competitive market and which in their feasibility studies created at the turn of 2009 and 2010, as I recall, had set rates of 20 PLN. This is actually a huge handicap for them. We are aware that this must be dealt with. However, this will require notification. A number of questions were repeated in a large part. If I miss one, I promise we'll answer it in writing. Mr Ruszczyk asked about this one city, which according to the European Digital Agenda in 2020 should be covered by the fifth generation network. Ladies and gentlemen, we are planning activities related to the distribution of frequencies, mainly in the C-band, in the 3.6-3,8 GHz band, which is due to start at the end of this year and end at the latest in the middle of next year. In line with our current plans, we want to oblige operators in selection procedures to cover at least one city's fifth generation network. As a result, there may be more of these cities. In answer to Mr Ruszczyk's question, more simply stating that the fifth generation networks cannot be launched without the 700 band, I would like to point out that this is not true. As far as the 5G network is concerned, there's also a C band here, as I said, and there's a 26 GHz band. Fewly this, we can also use other frequency blocks in accordance with the principle of technological neutrality, provided that we do not adversely affect other functioning systems. This was more or less the case with the LTE network, which was launched on frequencies designed for 2G networks. This bill, just so we're clear, because it's been raining here many times, isn't a law that introduces 5G. I would very much like to write a bill in which I will write that we are introducing any new technology in Poland, give a 2-week vacathio legis and be glad that after 2 weeks it materializes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case. If we are looking for any changes in the law system that would affect the implementation of the fifth generation of networks, it is clear that these were primarily changes in the telecoms law that we carried out at the beginning of this year with the approval of most of the countries that allowed for the cleaning of certain frequency bands. On the other hand, the amendment we are discussing today is an amendment that simply facilitates the development of the telecommunications network in general, so I will say the old Polish language. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to Mr Lassota's question, which I had not told you before, which pointed out that the World Health Organisation classified the electromagnetic field as potentially carcinogenic, I would like to point out that the World Health Organisation provides for five categories of potentially carcinogenic factors. 2B, where the electromagnetic field is located, is the lightest of them. There are over 300 other factors, there are nickel-plated earrings, there are aloes, there is talk for children. The World Health Organization is potentially more carcinogenic, for example, in red meat or coffee. I think I answered most of the questions. Like I said, if I missed something... [[Mechanisms yet, Minister. Synchronization...]] Ah yes, Mr Cieślinski finally asked for synchronization. I will refer to what Mr Marchewka said, who complained about excessive reporting. Exactly, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to synchronize the construction of telecommunications networks, operators need to know where it is built, and reporting twice a year is not excessive bureaucracy. The state, but also the operators need to know... [[Once a year isn't enough?]] ...where telecommunications networks are built, where it is worth investing, and where for example. from another operator they can lease the network, because so much are built and planned telecommunications businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u303	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Antoni Mężyłka, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking of regional broadband networks, I wasn't just talking about that. We have a competitive market, and the competitive market is that if we lower the rates for commercial operators to whom, as you said, it also pays off in a competitive market the effect is that prices will fall for subscribers, i.e. consumers. It's not gonna be like they're gonna get too much profit. There's always such a thing in the competitive market that whatever we bring down... Because that's how you even explore the competitiveness of the market, also by artificially induced impulses. An impulse is given, for example. discounts or increases and the effect is observed: if there is a competitive market, then the market responds to this, and here there is no concern that this will be an excessive profit for telecoms companies. This will not be the case because Poland has four such large operators [[♪ The bell ♪]] mobile phones, i.e. data transmission, are not really anywhere on the European market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u305	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u306	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club PSL-UED, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on the promotion of the development of telecommunications services and networks and certain other laws. The main objective of the project is to increase access for citizens and entrepreneurs to modern telecommunications services, including broadband Internet, especially in digitally excluded areas, most often in rural areas. In a broader context, the aim is to provide incentives for the economy as a whole through effective digitalisation. The project provides for a package of solutions that will facilitate and speed up the implementation of an investment and construction process that is important for the development of modern telecommunications networks. It also includes regulations that provide access to information on electromagnetic radiation emissions in the environment in connection with the construction and modernisation of mobile networks. This is a response to the findings of the Supreme Audit Chamber resulting from the control of public administrations concerning protection against electromagnetic radiation from mobile devices. Among other things, it is envisaged. Accelerate the investment and construction process for telecommunications infrastructure (e.g. by clarifying the concepts of the Construction Law and by clarifying the procedure for reporting electromagnetic radiation installations and public participation in the process), as well as reducing the cost of construction and operation of modern telecommunications networks (e.g. by lowering the maximum toll rates for the occupation of the road lane and by reducing the fixed fee for the entry of service in the perpetual register). The PSL-UED Club is in favour of a bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u307	In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and some other laws (print No 3521). I ask the Minister of National Defence, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The responsible state has a special responsibility to take care of those citizens who risked their lives and health in defending world peace. The responsible state has a duty to take proper care of those who did not hesitate to fight at the time of the crisis. The responsible state has a duty to remind you of the respect that each of us owes to soldiers participating in missions outside the country. The Government of Law and Justice is responsible, so today I have the honour to present a package of changes which will introduce more facilitations and privileges for a special group of people: veterans and veterans injured in missions outside Poland. I stress that this project has been prepared in close cooperation with this environment and takes into account all the demands they have made. I present to the High House a draft law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the borders of the State and some other laws. I'll start by quoting: I've dreamed of getting to know him, personally thanking him for being alive. Coray became my brother, even though I hadn't seen him in years, he was always close to me. At first, I didn't understand how serious my condition was. The first thought that occurred to me at the time was that my fiancée would kill me if I had to reschedule my wedding date. Luckily, she's my wife now. I have three sons. If it wasn't for Coray... These are the memories of kpr. Marcin Kulas, who was wounded during a mission in Afghanistan in 2009. He was rescued by an American soldier, Sergeant Coray Speck. I met them twice this year, recently in Washington almost three weeks ago, and I saw with my own eyes how strong Brotherly ties connect them. While soldiers can count on their colleagues on the battlefield, they must be sure that they will be properly taken care of when they return to the country. Corporal, tonight, Mr. Sergeant! I'm addressing you, but I'm addressing all the veterans. I assure you that as long as I am the Minister of National Defence, the Polish state will always stand up to the task with regard to soldiers and their needs. [[Applause]] The state will not leave alone the soldiers who risked their lives, fulfilling our allies' obligations. Veterans won't have to ask for help themselves. We owe the veterans respect - that's the main rule of the government, which I have the honour of being a minister. High Izbo! Our predecessors introduced a law in 2011 which enabled soldiers and officers participating in activities outside the country to obtain the status of a veteran and those who suffered injury as a result of these actions - the status of a veteran injured. However, the Act was underdeveloped and required a number of amendments. The initial condition for status was continued participation in the mission for 60 days. The amendment of President Andrzej Duda introduced in 2018 extended this possibility. Now also those who have been on missions several times, but in shorter periods, although in total not less than 90 days, may apply for status. The amendment of the bill that I am presenting today has been prepared by listening to the voices of those most affected by it. Both myself and my colleagues have spent many hours in intensive conversations with soldiers in order to develop effective, effective and beneficial solutions. The veterans needed this bill, which is why it's more my satisfaction that we'll be bringing this case to an end soon. High Seym! Today we are expanding the existing package of veterans' rights. We propose changes that will support them more strongly and will provide more assistance. First of all, we will provide more support for veterans injured with at least 30% health damage. We will provide them with comprehensive medical care covering all the diseases, not just those directly related to the injury or disease acquired during the foreign mission. The benefits will be fully implemented. We will provide free access to medicines and medical devices. In addition, the project offers the possibility to participate free of charge in readaptational-conditional tournaments together with an adult member of the family. Regardless of extended medical care, we will raise the amount of the existing allowance for the injured veteran. The allowance will also be granted to injured veterans who have a serious injury of between 1 and 9%. Thanks to these actions, a veteran with e.g. 90% the damage will receive a monthly amount corresponding to 130% minimum pension. It's real help. I also want to extend the right to learn aid to veterans who suffer a 30% loss. And more. Currently, they can only apply for funding for one of the forms of education. We're going to raise this number to two. In this way the entitled could, for example. not only to obtain funding for first-cycle studies, but also to continue to study and, with the support of the state, complete second-cycle studies with a master's degree. I am aware of the importance of reducing daily costs for veterans affected. The new rules will allow any veteran affected, regardless of the benefits collected, the right to reduced travel by public collective transport and exemption from charges for radio and television subscriptions. If he decides to stay at a veteran's home, we will reduce the fees for such a stay to a maximum of half the monthly income of the person concerned. Each of the veterans, and now it's a constantly growing group of 23,000. people, will have free access to state museums. In addition, all will have free access to local sports facilities. High Izbo! The revision of the Veterans Act is cross-cutting and introduces a number of facilitations and privileges for veterans. However, on this we will not finish our work to properly and worthy of honoring the heroes. I decided that we would prepare a whole package of solutions for veterans and veterans affected, including non-legislative initiatives. I've decided to set up a V.A. Treatment Center at the Military Medical Institute. It will be a specialized and extensive cell, the main task of which will be to help the soldiers affected on missions. We will also introduce a veteran card that will allow them to use different types of services and goods at preferential prices throughout the country, regardless of the solutions adopted by individual local authorities. For the second time, I also provided funding for the participation of Polish veterans in the next edition of the Games. Invictus Games. In 2018, Polish veterans competed in Sydney, and another struggle awaits us in The Hague. The money to finance participation in the competition will come from both the Ministry of National Defence and the Foundation of the Polish Armed Group. High Izbo! I would like to remind you that not only soldiers participate in activities outside your borders. They are also military personnel, but also police officers, Border Guards, State Security Service, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Intelligence Service, Military Counterintelligence Service and firefighters of the State Fire Department. Therefore, we will allow them to participate in free medical-profiling turnsos after returning from the mission to the country. Only soldiers have the right to such tournaments now. I know how important it is to support the loved ones during treatment and recovery, so in turnus veterans will be able to accompany the closest family member, whose half the cost of stay will be covered by the State Treasury. According to the calculations, all the changes I presented cost about PLN 12 million a year. Respect and support for veterans is our absolute duty. I firmly believe that no one in this room has any doubt that it will be money well spent. High Seym! It is also impossible not to mention the court cases which the most injured veterans brought to the Ministry of National Defence, especially at the time when the Polish coalition of PO-PSL ruled. This should never happen. The responsible authority should ensure that the most important needs of the injured soldiers are protected. This is another vivid example that illustrates the scale of the negligence of the previous government. Once again, the court cases that some veterans have brought against the MON are led by the Attorney General. Contrary to what some media have said, the MON has no impact on the adopted procedural strategy, but we believe that the limitation requirement should not be applied in some cases and that each of these matters must be treated individually. We're in constant contact with the D.A. and we're looking forward to ending these cases, which will suit all parties. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Veterans are our national good. That's, among other things. thanks to them the international position of Poland is at the moment the best in history. They are the ambassadors of our country and they are strengthening the status of our homeland in the North Atlantic Alliance. Since 2004, we have also been actively involved in the activities carried out by the European Union. We were members of international coalitions that cared about global security. Afghanistan, Iraq, the countries of the former Yugoslavia, the Middle East, Africa and the Far East. Everywhere in the Polish quotas or as observers were served by those whom we call veterans activities outside the borders of the state. We want to assure them that the Polish state remembers them. They are heroes who loyal to ethos have fulfilled their duty to their homeland. My priority as Minister of National Defence is the welfare of those who served Poland in missions outside its borders, risked their lives in war zones, supported our allies, defended the civilian population, supported the reconstruction of countries affected by conflicts. The Polish state does not forget its heroes and does not leave them in need. High Seym! I ask the High House to accept the proposal submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u309	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u310	Oh, I'm sorry. In the meantime, the speaker has changed. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for conducting this part of the session.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u311	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Jach will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and some other laws, print No 3521. I confirm that I agree with the Minister's first opinion that the State should take care of the safety of its citizens, especially those who serve their homeland with dedication not only in the country, but above all beyond borders, if necessary. This group, which carries out duties towards the country, consists of soldiers, officers of various services and workers posted to the furthest places in the world in the framework of international missions in which Poland participates. After joining NATO and the European Union, the number of these tasks increased significantly. This resulted in more and more veterans' needs as they returned to their homeland. At first, we weren't prepared for this. The legal arrangements that were in place at that time did not respond to the needs of the victims. Let us recall how our first soldier, Captain, died in Afghanistan in 2006. Wozniak, growing three children, and since he was not yet well served in the ministry, his family, apart from the drama of his father's absence, would be deprived of the means to live. At that time, the Sejm in very fast, extraordinary mode improved the law on pension provision of professional soldiers, which solved this problem and possibly similar in the future. More and more soldiers and officers were assigned to various UN missions, NATO or the European Union, and more and more returning needed help. It was only in 2011 that the Act on Veterans of Action outside the country was adopted, Dz. U. z 2011 poz. 1203. Although well, I am sorry, it was very good that it was created, it was criticised by the interested parties since the beginning of their entry into force because of the shortcomings of the various regulations. In the following years, it was revised, but this law still did not fully respond to the expectations of the veterans. The number of veterans grew from year to year and unfortunately also the number of people returning with health problems, diseases. At the end of June 2017, the national defence minister granted the veteran status to 16 700 people and the veteran status of the injured person - 724 persons, while those statuses were also granted by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the head of the ABW. In total, the total number of veterans is about 18 thousand. Various Veterans' organisations in Poland have been asking for years to lean on this issue and to create a comprehensive system of assistance for veterans and, above all, veterans affected. And it was only the government of Law and Justice that approached extremely responsible to the expectations of those Poles who risked their health and life outside their homeland. The government has prepared an amendment to the Veterans Act, which fully responds to the expectations of the Veterans of the Armed Forces, Police, State Fire Department, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Security Service, ABW and Intelligence Agency. It is also important that all departments have been included in the work, including the law firm of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Health, which guarantees equal treatment of veterans regardless of the formation in which they serve. Minister! As chairman of the Parliament's committee, I personally thank you for taking up this subject and for this broad, comprehensive response to the expectations of our veterans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to thank all those who have contributed to the uprising, to the drafting of this law and on behalf of the club, and I assure you that we will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u313	Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on print No 3521 containing a draft law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and some other laws. Indeed, we all say that this is a very, very important law, which concerns veterans, people who have put their lives at risk, health on peaceful missions, stability beyond the borders of the country. These are particularly important for us people and the environment for which the State should, as the Minister said, carry out the obligation, in particular, to provide them with proper care. That is very good, but I would also like to point out that this is a law that has been prepared by the Government of the Civic Platform and the PSL, still in its earlier term of office, and left to you. We are glad that she is finally in this House and is being processed, but she has had to wait more than four years for this. They didn't have to wait so long to support these veterans to come to their aid. This was not justified, I do not see the justification for the fact that it took so long, the more that there were indeed consultations with the environments affected by the missions. The United Nations Peace Mission Combatants Association, the Association of Wounded and Damaged Missions outside the borders of the country or the Association of Veterans of Action Outside the borders of the State consulted Minister Mariusz Błaszczak on the amendments notified to this law. I also encouraged them to express their views and share their comments. Of course, I'll put it right here. They're actually happy that this bill is finally being processed. We are very pleased that it includes additional powers for veterans and veterans injured. However, this law - which I very, very specifically wish to draw attention to - which unfortunately, with great sadness I say, divides veterans who are injured because of their status. I just want to mention that in fact there are nearly 18 thousand veterans in Poland, but the veteran status of the injured in the case of the Ministry of National Defence was granted to 724 people, and in the case of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration - if only 67, this is about officers from this department, i.e. together veterans injured in our country, in Poland there are 791, Minister. [[Lucky for you.]] And this law, of course, guarantees all victims the privileges that Minister Błaszczak mentioned here, but I would like to pay particular attention to where the veterans affected need the greatest support. This is about free rehabilitation tours, care, also about free medications, about providing health benefits outside the queue. Unfortunately, you have limited in this law the possibility of using these facilities only and only to veterans who have health problems in the amount of mines. 30%. Minister! Of these 791 veterans, there are only 120 victims. Can't the Polish state afford to take the same care of all veterans affected, or 791 people, so that they can have this free rehabilitation tournament so that they can benefit free of charge from benefits and health care without a queue? [[Applause]] I'm pretty sure we can afford it. What's the difference between a person who suffers a personal injury of 29%, 28%, 25% or 21%, from which this loss is 30% ? There is a large discrepancy - from 10% up to 40% - as regards qualifications within the State Insurance Institution in relation to invalidity and victims who have the possibility to take advantage of additional issues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not enough, I'd also like to point out...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u315	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u316	Thank you very much. Let me ask you a question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u318	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the advantages of the bill, the Minister and my previous speakers have already spoken, so I don't think there's anything to repeat it. The bill is good and worth supporting. Certainly from Members of the Kukiz Posel Club15 support It will be. For me, as an ex-soldier who has many veterans' colleagues, it is very important that these people are given special care, because I think they deserve it, as well as the seriousness of the Polish state requires that these people be given special care. On the other hand, I would like to make another point. Well, the Foundation doesn't stay, which takes care of veterans and families of veterans. It takes care of, among others. organizing rehabilitation tours, artistic tournaments for victims and their families. There was a problem recently because the Polish Armed Forces newspaper wanted to include information so that veterans soldiers could learn about such actions, but there was a misunderstanding between the Foundation and the Military Publishing Institute and this announcement could not be placed. I think it's a little ridiculous, because if someone is trying to support veterans and their families by their own means, then all the institutions underneath the state should support such activities. And here I am appealing to the Minister to consider whether it is possible that such announcements may appear in the Polish Armed Forces or other magazines supervised by the Military Publishing Institute. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u319	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Eight Members have entered the question. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. The first Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This law significantly improves the system of assistance to veterans and veterans affected. Please inform, clarify whether the exemption of veterans and veterans affected by admission fees to museums applies only to museums created by government authorities or museums created by local government units. If not, I am convinced that local authorities will soon follow this good example and will also introduce such facilities to me, as I already receive such information. Thank you for the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u321	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u322	Thank you very much, Marshal. As I did not have the opportunity to complete my speech, I would like to say first of all that the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club is in favour of referring this bill to committee work and will also propose amendments to this project. On the other hand, from this point of view, I would like to ask about the issue of transitional provisions. Why is it in the transitional provisions concerning the changes referred to in this Act for veterans who have a minimum of 30% health damage assumed that these changes will be ex officio, whereas veterans who are injured, who have less than 30% health damage, will have to apply individually? I believe that everyone needs to be treated evenly and that everyone should be assured of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u323	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, this is a long-awaited bill, a bill for great people. It is a fact that these heroes are the best ambassadors of Poland. On the other hand, it is a bit strange, ladies and gentlemen - and it is a pity that the Minister is not here - that the Minister has approached this group of incredibly brave people who have put their lives at risk. 12 million PLN is the annual cost. How to classify 27% and 30% - as my friend said - in the case of people who risked their lives? Who's gonna classify this? It is not clear - and I would like to ask for a written reply - which means the concept of purchases at preferred prices. Can't the Polish state afford it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To pay full reimbursement of travel expenses by means of communication? It's a little weird and I'd ask you to think about it, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the days of the previous government, we created a system of care for soldiers injured during the service, especially veterans. The end of the veterans' work was the adoption of the Veterans' Act. We've established the Veteran Center. Actions outside the borders of the country. After 4 years of operation of this law, we prepared together with the veterans' community a revision of this law, which waited 4 years. This government, and Minister Błaszczak, cared about veterans after critical articles recently published in the press. Four years they waited, didn't come to correct this bill, although it was prepared, now they're coming. Maybe because they had so many of these laws? Maybe Minister Błaszczak presented a bill here every day? I think this is the second bill for his term of office. He suddenly cared about the veterans. What about the veterans he took away from his pensions, those soldiers who were on missions outside the country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't just fool this environment and all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u328	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. Will what you are announcing in the draft law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and some other laws be implemented because the previous authorities have done little for veterans? Each year the European Film Festival Integration You and Me takes place in Koszalin, where I participate. I also meet veterans there who have fought, for example. Afghanistan, Iraq. They said a lot about how they were forgotten. These veterans, for example, had soldiers. After the explosions severed their legs, they had prosthetics, but also in terrible condition was their psyche, they were in bad shape. They were talking about how they always had what was in front of them in those wars. That's why I'm particularly glad that there's a bill coming in, that veterans will be able to feel that they've been reminded of them now, and that they'll be able to count on different things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] relief, rehabilitation...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u329	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u330	...or even stay in sanatoriums.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u331	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u332	That's what they deserved. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u333	Now Mr Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u334	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The status of a veteran of activities outside the country also includes persons subject to a reduction in pensions on the basis of the provisions of the Act of 16 December 2016. That's the so-called one. It's a dehubian act. These soldiers and officers served outside the state under exactly the same conditions, exposed themselves to the same danger and stress, regardless of the formations they served before 1989. The Sejm and the Senate received petitions on the exclusion of a group of veterans from the act of 16 December 2016. I would like to ask what the ministry's position on this matter is. Is the Ministry considering disabling this group from the deubecisation bill? This project is being investigated by the Senate at this point, and it would be worth linking it to this bill. Minister, this environment has been divided. Since 2017 parts of this [[♪ The bell ♪]] environment...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u335	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u336	...life conditions have worsened dramatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u337	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a good thing that this bill is finally in session, but this bill should be a gesture act. Homeland should honor its veterans as in the United States. There's a veteran. He's somebody. This is a man who doesn't pay anywhere. Why are we introducing travel reliefs and not giving free travel to all veterans, a whole group of veterans, even the caretakers of injured veterans who have more than 30% health damage? I have a question: What is the percentage of veterans treating mentally? If there's no such information at the moment, I'd ask for it in writing. Why relief and care are taken by veterans injured in more than 30% ? In my opinion, every one of them should be taken care of and should not be done. Already then the differences, whether he's more than 30%... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u339	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u340	...is injured, or...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u341	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u342	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u343	At this end, we have concluded our parliamentary speeches. Please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to clarify a few points, perhaps due to the misunderstanding of the law itself and the provisions that are there. I'd like to introduce you to this. It's not like we're limiting something that's right now. If we are talking about veterans who are injured, especially those who have health problems above 30%, then we are introducing free medicines for them. We're keeping free medical care here, but we're introducing free medications for all non-injury diseases. When it comes to soldiers, when it comes to veterans who are injured, whether they have a 5%, 10% or 15% health injury, they still have free care and free medications due to injuries. We extend this directory for those from over 30% to cases not related to it. This is one issue that needs to be clarified. I do not know why this information is coming from you, but I would like to assure you once again, because it was already discussed during the Parliamentary meetings of the Committee on National Defence, that no one was reduced or retired in the Ministry of National Defence, as Mr Mroczek said. That is also what Mr Wójcik said. As far as other areas are concerned, this is a question concerning the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and I do not feel competent to answer you in this way. I hope that in writing, in agreement with the Minister of the Interior, we will provide you with an answer on this subject. Mr Furgo asked about the cost of the bill. Mr President, 12 million zlotys are not bill costs. 12 million PLN are the costs of introducing the solutions that we present to you today. This is an additional 12 million a year resulting from the provisions of this law. Ladies and gentlemen! Veterans injured on Mom's missions - this is the state of the last days - 857. As for all veterans, and those injured, and those who served, that is 23 339. Of course, anyone who served his country, as well as spilled blood on behalf of his country, for his country, must be taken care of by the state. Therefore, there is this proposal, which, as Minister Mariusz Błaszczak said, came out of the veterans' environment in a way, but was also fully consulted with them. These were months of conversation, those were months of discussion, those were months of agreement that we had with associations, people who in this environment are who come from this environment. There was information from a Member regarding one of the foundations. We're gonna check that information, and we're gonna try and do it the way it's supposed to be done. But these associations, these NGOs that work with veterans who also work with their families, because it is particularly important that they also take care of their families, cooperate with their families, also work very closely with the Ministry of National Defence. Every year we announce a number of competitions for NGOs, for these associations that also bring together veterans, so that they can carry out these environmental activities even better. These are really very large funds, which additionally each year we provide for the environment of veterans and victims. And it's not just the funds directly addressed to them, but, what's important is what I said a few moments ago, it's also the funds that the families of the victims can benefit from. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Thank you for these votes, for your support and for your support. I am convinced that together, I hope that unanimously, this bill will be adopted, because this is our civic duty, to us as politicians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u345	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u346	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club PSL-UED, I will present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Veterans of Activities outside the State and some other laws. The draft amendment envisages increasing aid for veterans and veterans affected. It is proposed to increase the amount of the allowance for the injured veteran and to grant the allowance to a group of injured veterans with a loss of health of l% up to 9%. The amount of the allowance shall be subject to a fixed percentage of the damage to health suffered as a result of an accident in connection with activities outside the borders of the State or a disease acquired during the performance of the tasks or duties of activities outside the borders of the State for which the compensation has been granted. The right to treatment has been offered outside the order and without a time limit to veterans affected by at least 30% of the damage to health for all diseases, even if they are not directly related to injuries or diseases arising from activities outside the country. Veterans whose health damage is at least 30% have been offered the right to participate once a year in free readaptational-conditional turns.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u347	The role of veterans in building morale and tradition of armed forces is known since the first civilizations and cultures. The state's relation to these people is one of the indicators of the level of social development and the quality of the state itself. I would like to ask if the Ministry of National Defence is simultaneously developing a policy on the use of veterans' experience and employment opportunities for training and building moral and spiritual tissue of the Polish Army.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u348	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and certain other laws contained in print No. 3521, to the Committee on National Defence for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 9 and 10 of the agenda: 9. Report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2018 together with information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2018 (print No 3482) and the Commission draft resolution (print No 3546). 10. Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018 (print No 3351) together with the Commission's draft resolution (print No 3513). I ask Mr Krzysztof Czabański, President of the National Media Council, to present the information from print no. 3351. Are you the chairman? [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: I am here, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. Please be kind soon, because we're behind schedule.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u349	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to provide you with information from the activities of the National Media Council in 2018. It may be worth recalling that the National Media Council has five members, including three appointed by governing camps and two nominated by opposition clubs. The Council has access to all basic information on what is happening in media companies. One can say that thanks to this and opposition, and the governing camp has an insight into the functioning of public media in terms of their financial aspects, as well as personal and programme aspects. The powers of the National Media Council are focused on the appointment, formation of the authorities of media companies, i.e. supervisory boards and boards. The National Media Council agrees to appoint directors of Polish Television Field Branches, as well as formations of programme councils in these media companies, but it is worth reminding here that 2/3 of the composition of programme councils is shaped by parliamentary clubs, by candidates designated by parliamentary clubs. The National Media Council is a notary on this matter, but only takes note of these applications and formally appoints the Programme Councils. You received information about how the National Media Council was specifically active in 2018. This information covers all statutory duties of the National Media Council, is full, transparent, shows the full operation of the National Media Council. As all the statutory tasks of the National Media Council last year have been carried out, I request that this information be accepted by the High House and, of course, I am ready to answer any questions if they are. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u350	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your brief report. That's very nice. Now I will ask the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council of Mr Witold Kołodziejski to present the documents from print No 3482. I hope that this will be an equally concise report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the report of the National Radio and Television Council. The report shall also be accompanied by information on the state of the market in 2018. The National Radio and Television Council shall report annually to the Sejm, the Senate and the President, as well as to the President of the Council of Ministers on its activities for the preceding year and on the basic problems of radio and television. That's from the article. 12 of our bill. This year there has been an important legal change, followed by the reporting documents of the National Radio and Television Council, which will be presented by the new statutory deadline, which is until 31 May. This allowed us to give better, more complete information, especially on the state of the radio and television market in 2018, because we already have all the company reporting documents, mainly public media companies. The report shall include information on the implementation of the various statutory tasks of the National Radio and Television Council and an analysis of selected market phenomena and processes, which is included in the information section. If we look at the report and the information in more detail, we will see there an analysis of the impact of new technologies, the development of technology on the media market and the ongoing processes in 2018. There is a section devoted to the tasks of the National Radio and Television Council, one of which is the protection of pluralism in the media. It is also referred to the introduction of changes in the radio and television market, namely the development and introduction of a process for the digital radio, i.e. the introduction of new advertisements for digital radio, this time addressed to commercial broadcasters, the concept of a strategic transition to a different terrestrial TV standard, i.e. DVB-T2 with codec coding in HEVC, which will allow to increase the quality of terrestrial television to a high resolution standard with similar multiplex capacity development. This means that the offer of terrestrial television will not increase significantly, but its quality will improve. There is talk of participation in the legislative work, the major changes of which were related to the introduction into the Act on Radio and Television of an amendment introducing an obligation to sign public media obligations cards with broadcasters and, consequently, programme and financial plans. These changes are dictated by the use of a communication aimed at regulating the rules on public media co-financing from public money. And this amendment has been introduced. This year we're gonna be signing the first cards of duty. Ladies and gentlemen! In the report and in the information we will find a detailed description of all the work carried out by the National Council on subscriptions, on the consideration of applications for redemption or distribution into instalments of subscription arrears, on the downloadability of the subscription, also on complaints which came to the National Radio and Television Council, as well as the proceedings which the National Radio and Television Council initiated from its own office. We are talking about a circular media table, which is really about the co-regulatory initiative of the National Radio and Television Council, and a number of other initiatives that we have written about in the report. The report was discussed in detail at the meeting of the Culture Committee. I think I answered all the questions I asked at the committee meeting, which is why there's no need to go back to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u352	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now I will ask Anna Sobecka to provide the reasons for the draft resolutions in print 3546 and 3513.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u353	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media at its meetings on 11 and 13 and 25 June 2019 has examined it in accordance with Article. Paragraph 125. 4 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on 31 May 2019 by the Marshal of the Sejm, the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2018 together with information on the main problems of radio and television in 2018. This is print number 3482. Following the presentation of the report for 2018 by Witold Kołodziejski, President of the National Radio and Television Council of Witold Kołodziejski, the committee held a discussion at the end of which a proposal was proposed on the content: The Polish Parliament adopts the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2018. In this case, the committee met three times. As a last resort, the final vote reached the result: 11 votes in favour, 6 against, with 1 abstention. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Culture and Communications at its meeting on 11 June 2019 considered the referral addressed to it in accordance with Article. Paragraph 125. Section 4 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on 3 April 2019 by the Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018, i.e. printing No 3351. After the presentation of the information for 2018 by Krzysztof Czabański, President of the National Media Council, there were questions and doubts within the committee. The President of the National Media Council gave comprehensive answers to Members of the Committee on Culture and Media, after which a proposal was submitted on the subject: The Polish Parliament accepts information about the activities of the National Media Council in 2018. The Committee on Culture and Media after the vote: 12 votes in favour, 9 against, with 1 abstention, adopted a proposal for a resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018, print No 3351. I submit these texts to the High House and recommend that they be adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u354	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Grzegorz Puda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u355	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on information about the activities of the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council for 2018. In 2018, the National Media Council held 14 meetings. In order to ensure the functioning of the Polish Press Agency SA, the Council decided to elect Wojciech Surmacz as President of the Management Board of the Polish Press Agency SA. During this year the Council also dealt with the situation of Polish Radio SA and decided to change its statute. In connection with the suspension by the Supervisory Board of the President of the Board of Polish Radio and the delegation to perform the duties of the President of the Management Board of Andrzej Rogoyski, the Board also dealt with this situation. As a result of the actions taken, the National Media Council adopted a resolution on the dismissal of the President. Importantly, it was also decided to determine the minimum share of broadcasts created by the field branches of TV Polska Spółka Akcyjna in national programmes in 2019. In Program 1 it will be 254 hours, in Program 2 and 85 hours, and in TVP Polonia it will be 349 hours. In 2018, the National Media Council continued the process of setting up new programme councils for public broadcasting companies in 2017. By also exercising other competences arising from the provisions of the Act, the Council, among others, agreed to change the statutes, initiated a change in the statutes, agreed to appoint directors of the regional divisions of TVP. On several occasions, the Council held positions on matters important for the functioning of public media. In order to obtain detailed information on the matters of broadcasters, the National Media Council met with representatives of public companies of radio and television broadcasting, and especially often, which should be emphasized, representatives of the Polish Television SA. By safeguarding the wider public interest, members of the Council also met with representatives of different backgrounds. It is worth noting that at the time when the National Media Council was set up, for the first time in the history of law, two seats in a five-person opposition were guaranteed, which ensures pluralism and guarantees access to information about the activities of companies. In 2018, the National Council of Radiophony and Television implemented its competences during meetings, during which it adopted 347 resolutions in the field of its activities, submitted to the publication in the Official Journal of the 11 Regulations. As part of her participation in the legislative process in the field of radiophony and television, she gave an opinion on five draft laws and nine international agreements. Radio broadcasters received 13 new concessions to disseminate local programmes. The Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council issued 54 decisions on the so-called "Radio-TV'. the renewal of radio and television programmes. It also issued 24 licences for the dissemination of programmes in telecommunications networks, other than those used for the distribution of land-based or satellite-based spreaders, i.e. so-called. cable networks. 221 notifications were received by the National Radio and Television Council for inclusion in the register of television programmes only distributed in the ICT system and distributed programmes, which together with the notifications submitted at the end of 2017 were the basis for issuing 240 provisions on entry. The State budget for the activities of the National Radio and Television Council was allocated revenue of over PLN 38 million, which consisted inter alia. proceeds from concession fees. The website of the National Radio and Television Council visited a lot, because more than 340 thousand. users, generating almost 1,300,000 views. During the reporting period, within the reporting powers, the Council worked on issuing six regulations implementing laws, four of which were published in the Official Journal of the Laws. The work on the other two continued also in 2018. In 2018, the National Radio and Television Council also dealt with issues related to: procedures for agreeing with broadcasters of financial and programme plans projects undertaken to carry out missionary tasks; control of the use of subscription appropriations for public broadcasters for the financing of missionary programming activities; distribution between public companies of radio and television of PLN 980 million, which compensates for the proceeds of subscription fees lost in 2010 and 2017 as a result of statutory redundancies of certain social groups; monitoring of linear programmes and on-demand services; investigation of complaints and requests. Nearly 35 penalties have been imposed for abuse related, among others. exceeding the permitted time of advertising or concession violations. The National Radio and Television Council has also implemented a number of educational projects and social campaigns. It also operates at European level, working in institutions such as the Council of Europe, the European Regulators Group. audiovisual media services, Management Committee for media and information society or the European Audiovisual Observatory. High Izbo! In view of the above and given that the reports on the activities of the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council objectively represent their role, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the actions taken and will vote in favour of the information on the activities of the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council for 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u356	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It will not be pleasant, because this debate should be held in a completely different place. After all, a courtroom would be a more appropriate place to assess the achievements of the National Radio and Television Council, [[Applause]] 'Cause it's out there, and it's not where you judge cases of notorious lawbreaking. Yes. I say - and this is not an isolated view of a single Member, so thinks my entire club, on behalf of which I have the honour to speak - that the National Radio and Television Council, allowing disregard, avoidance, violation of the article. 21 Act on Radio and Television by public broadcaster, co-operated in criminal activities. I'm accusing this counsel. Yet, I apologize for the reservation, because President Kołodziejski will say that the entire media market is on the head of the national council. Yes, but not the whole media market receives public money and not the whole media market has specially recorded tasks in the Radio and Television Act in Article. 21. So we as all Polish citizens are interested in the public broadcaster. The commercial sender complements the offer, but does not balance. So I accuse this advice that, without paying attention to public television antennas, venom, lies, bias, servility towards the rulers, and often promoting tandeta, it feeds the President of Kurski's money with billions of zlotys from the budget, our billions, our taxpayers. I accuse you that by participating in unlawful, far from any standards of impartiality, integrity, responsibility for word and independence of conduct, he does so, having absolutely full knowledge that these are wrong actions, that these are unlawful actions, that these are actions detrimental to the public interest. And the national council upholds freedom of speech, the right to information and public interest in radio and television. He knows what it's like, because it was by order of this national council that the research group from the University of Papal John Paul II in Cracow carried out monitoring of programs on TVP 1, public television, that was in February 2017. This monitoring on behalf of the National Council - I can quote - is simply devastating. He's talking about the lack of pluralism and impartiality, he's talking about a language that's supposed to depreciate a large part of society. He talks about the propaganda of success, he talks about the lack of any balance. So? And nothing, if you don't count on the fact that the monitoring report was hidden, was treated as a confidential document and appeared on websites only in June this year. Finally, I accuse the national council that it is idly looking at the conversion of public antennas into the electoral staff of the ruling party. There are two reports from the Journalist Society, both of which have nuclear power for the television board. [[Applause]] It was election college for our taxpayers' money. I don't know if the State Elections Committee will want to put this into the cost of the PiS. I can still ask, "Well, what? Nothing. A summary of this degrengolade of media policy on Law and Justice could be an incident from yesterday. The Committee on Culture and Media was to review yesterday the report of the Polish Language Council, a report prepared by scientists of the Polish Academy of Sciences. They had the bad luck of analyzing the so-called. stripes that appear on public television. On the basis of a false argument, Mr Czabański personally interrupted the committee meeting. He requested that these issues be stopped even though the printing was sent to the committee by the Marshal of the Sejm. The chairman of the committee, putting this proposal to the vote - the parliamentary majority, of course, won - broke two laws. He broke the rules and the Polish language law. That was yesterday. [[Voice from the hall: What was a lie? What was a lie?]] The lie was the argument I had on me. I'd love to show you later. Nothing here is real. [[The code is not a code. Legislative tech.]] In conclusion, I only have one more comment. [[Terlecki...]] I will repeat this, and I will repeat this for as long as Mr Kołodziejski is President of the National Council. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. You're a professional, no one's questioning that. I don't understand why such an expert can't understand that if art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that a member of the National Council of Radiophony and Television cannot belong to a political party and to trade unions... You believe, even though you are systematically running from the list of Law and Justice to the Mazowieckie Sejm, and you are becoming a councilman, that you are a partyless, professional man. I can't understand it, and I'll never accept it. Mr. Marshal! As a club, we make two amendments. They relate to amendments to the resolution of the committee. There you go. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u358	Thank you very much. There's still some time left, isn't there? [[You're getting less and less.]] Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform Club. Is there time?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u359	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to Mr Czabański, the aim of the National Media Council is to define strategies for joint actions of Polish public media and - attention - ensure the reliability of their work. This integrity of public media work I'd like to sacrifice my short speech. I would like to ask, where was the National Media Council when public television led the hunt for the murdered President of Gdańsk Paweł Adamowicz? Where was the National Media Council when the Ethics Council stated that President Paweł Adamowicz was the object of slander, but he had no right to defend himself? Where was the National Media Council when a public television journalist was acting aggressively towards President Aleksandra Dulkiwicz? I understand that public television hasn't learned any conclusions, and you can see that to this day, but the National Media Council should, however, lean on this problem. Where was the National Media Council when TVP's news aired a material full of slander, impudently hitting the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar? The same spokesperson has already won public television in court. Did the National Media Council take the floor on this? I don't recall. Madam President has already mentioned an analysis by the Journalist Society and the Batory Foundation on the election campaign. Maybe I'll show you the table. The green stripe shows how the news shows the ruling party - only well - red - as shown by the Civic Platform and the opposition. I leave this to the National Media Council. One more thing: I think it's worth going back to the Media Ethics Board. You have also not spoken on this matter. To this day, no consequences have been drawn towards anyone on public television who, so to speak, had a share in what happened in Gdansk. You're co-responsible for this. I say this with full responsibility, and I expect a clear position... [[Voice from the room: How can you?]] ...from the National Media Council on this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u360	Member Michał Kaminski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate is a debate It's not just the media. Today's debate is a debate about the state of Polish democracy. Democracy, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, is not just a technical process in which - and in Poland this is happening and it would be ridiculous if, someone questioned it - we technically put the vote in the urn and we have a guarantee that this vote is honestly counted. This is a very important feature of democracy. In Poland this is done beyond any doubt. But true democracy is when everyone has access to the truth, when everyone can shape their election decision on the basis of truth, based on access to information, both good and bad, about those who rule, and those who wish to rule. So in Poland in public media It's not happening. I put my thesis, perhaps brave, but I fear that extremely true, that the state of Polish public media in Poland is a state that threatens Polish democracy, [[Applause]] because it makes it impossible for a large part of Polish citizens, who are technically dependent on this public television, to have access to the truth about the situation in our country. Just now, from the benches of Law and Justice, the name of one of the commercial television stations that you think is hostile to each other. It is good that it has fallen, because it is worth noting what the interview on private television looks like with the opposition policy, whether it will be Grzegorz Schetyn, or whether it will be Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, or whether it will be one of us, Members. Every time we're in private media, we know that we're going to have to answer difficult questions, that we're going to be confronted with uncomfortable facts as well. That's how reliable media work. I would like to recommend you, and it will not unfortunately be a cabaret, but a reminder, interviews on public television with the leader of the ruling party. If they weren't real, they'd be funny, but they're real. And that's the fundamental difference. And today I want to tell you that it is always worth asking ourselves questions about the future which Poland wants, which Poland wants. In many aspects of life in our country, the rule of law and justice is limited and bound by European rules, a constitution which you sometimes do not respect, sometimes you are forced to respect, the justice system is a good example here, but there is an area of action of the Polish state where you have no inhibitions, because they are institutionally absent. The National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council should be a barrier to you, but they're not, so they should go. In this area, i.e. In the field of public media, you do what you want. If everyone wants to answer the question of what is the ideal Poland according to the Law and Justice, they should turn on public television. This is TV, and this is your Poland, in which for political opponents there is only lie and contempt, in which for their own there is only vaseline. This is the kind of Poland you want. This is the kind of Poland you can build in public media only for the time being, and this is what you are building. Moreover, this television in an important way, like you as a political formation, refers to what is in us, Poles, the worst, and not the best. You are not referring to our best traditions, but to our worst traditions. You sow fears, you arouse hatred towards strangers, strangers because of your behavior, aliens because of your origin, religion or lack of it. This division of Poles, which is the trademark of Law and Justice, was brought to perfection on public television. This public television is one of the main tools of this vital purpose of your policy, which is to divide Poles, which is to dig ditches daily between us. Our job is to bury them. Therefore, such an important task, which stands before every responsible citizen of the Republic of Poland, is to stop the Law and Justice and reunite Poles, [[Applause]] because we must not allow your propaganda to be pushed into this trap of the Polish-Polish war, into this trap of the Cold Civil War, in which the army on the first front is unfortunately public media in Poland. Poles don't want civil war. I firmly believe that this belief that we are first and foremost brothers and sisters, citizens of the Lightest Republic of Poland, and only later are we sympathizers of this political party or of any other worldview, will win among most Poles, but then you must lose, then the public media must change, because they must serve what serves all Poles and not just one political force. I would like to say to you that, of course, journalists have their views, left-wing, right-wing, centered, and have the right to do so. However, the problem in Poland is not that politicians, I apologize, do not have the right to vote. The problem is that they alone have the right to vote in public media, and, in principle, the public media are also the media of those who have not voted for you, who are therefore daily, 24 hours a day belied, insulted and mocked by public television antennas. And unfortunately we have not heard from the National Media Council, nor from the National Radio and Television Council: non possumus. We did not hear that he had permission to make public media paid from our taxes a huge excavator, a shovel dividing Poles, digging a trench between us. Is there still time to remember? Yes, it certainly is. Mr President, and one President and the other, none of you can, and Mrs Katarasińska rightly said so, denying media competence and also denying you beautiful resumes. All the more so than you, because more has been given to you, the more is required of you. And we demand of you what is in the name of your party: law and justice. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u362	Member Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Discussing the situation of the National Radio and Television Council, National Media Council, public media or the media at all, of course, I could devote a lot of time to everything that these institutions didn't respond to. They did not react at least in the last election campaign, when the confederate electoral committee was vilified, bequeathed, most of the time ignored in public media, and then vilified and bequeathed in the worst possible way. I could talk about blocking the actual ideal right. I don't mean just us, the people, not just the defenders of life, but all those who don't go on the party line. I could say that, in fact, when it comes to what you have done with public media and what you as institutions should be protecting precisely the ideality, purity and the rule of law of public media, you do not do at all - these media became these propaganda tools with a mirror reflection of Michikovscy, a mirror image of TVN. Like Mr. Kurski, Mr. Sakiewicz, but also Mr. Czabański look in the mirror, they could see Adam Michnik or Walter or others, because they are simply a mirror reflection, about another party vector, but with the same methods, the same methods of slander, lies, mistreating the opponent. Unfortunately, that's how it's done. And not only for those who have applied to you for years, especially in 2010 and after 2010, by the way, the whole contempt industry. You created the counter-industrial contempt. You have created a counter-industrial disdain and apply this industry to all those who do not follow the party line. Not that they are the extreme left, they are anti-Polish, they are opponents of Polish independence, they report to Brussels. No. You have created an industry of contempt that strikes all those who do not stand on guard against Nowogrodzka and Kaczyński. And you know it. But this isn't even the most important thing today. You know what the most important thing is? The most important thing in Poland today is that Poland, when it comes to culture, customs, society, ideas, does not go the way of the revolution that has turned and destroyed the West. This is a fundamental issue today. [[Destroyed West.]] She destroyed the West, which makes the West under the invasion of immigrants today, the West today is rainbow, the West in pursuit of materialism is losing itself. [[And he has a German European Commission.]] Everything that has happened in the West, is happening, and is even gaining pace in cultural terms right now, right under these governments, over these four years. And one of the main tools through which this revolution takes place... Although maybe, I don't know, a little more priests are on public television, maybe a little more conservative or superficially conservative slogans appear on public television, it's de facto happening. There are three factors. The first is the elevation of materialism, the elevation of materialism and individual consumption as a god, as a measure of all things. This is what happens in these governments. This was exactly what happened since the 1960s, when the centroright, when the pseudo-conservatives capitulated in front of the cultural left, they said, "We're just here to fill the stomachs and wallets, and they've lost everything." This is exactly what happens in the political message of the government and the government media. This is generally a clou. The second thing is to destroy the family. Rainbow revolution goes not only through gender studies at universities, which Mr. Gowin does not want to throw away, through rainbow Fridays, through parades of equality, this year the largest in Warsaw since they are. She goes through TVP shows, the most popular, type of lucky. Day after day, millions of Poles look at this content, identify with exemplary homosexuals who even look after children - on public television, on various TV shows. This has already become the norm not only in private media, but also in yours. This is where the biggest homopropaganda exists, much bigger, because millions of people sit day by day, watch this content, identify with heroes. It is your responsibility and it is you, Czabański, Kołodziejski and all the rest, that you are responsible for such content in public media. The third issue is finally a total silence about the change that is taking place, changing the population in Poland. Not only millions of Ukrainians - tens of thousands of visitors from Asia. The public media are silent about all of this. That's what [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're walking exactly the way of the West: multiculturalism, the destruction of the family...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u364	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u365	...and a cult of materialism. And you're responsible for that, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u366	... Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Now! [[Changing society - that's what I liked the most. There's a change in society.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I begin to comment on the report of the National Council and the National Media Council - Mr Winnicki, for the last time, for the last time, I am telling you: stop pissing on homosexuals. Whether you're gay or heterosexual, it's biology, and you don't care. There are 460 people in this room, some are homosexual, and some are heterosexual. So don't sting and use it for... [[Don't let them carry...]] Don't piss on those people. I just don't agree with that, and I'm simply forbidding you because you're destroying people with these statements that just came out here. And back to the point. In fact, I will refer first to the report of the National Radio and Television Council. Mrs Sobecka probably deliberately hid the fact that, in fact, the National Radio and Television Council in the first time a vote was held, which should be the last vote, the ladies and gentlemen who are watching us, did not get the support, which is that the report was not really adopted. You just had to vote several times so that the National Radio and Television Council could hear a positive verdict. It must be made clear that for the first time in history this report has not been adopted, and very well, because it should not be adopted. I mean, what kind of report can we talk about here? After all, this is not a report based on the report of the Papal University in Krakow, which the National Council of Radio and Television for about 250,000. zł commissioned research on journalistic integrity in information services of PiS-owska - because this is PiS-owska, your TV - TV. I would like to remind you once again that the National Radio and Television Council has been hiding this report for over a year because it is a report crushing public television and information programs such as: News, Guest News or Teleexpress. This report describes in general what Michał Kaminski was very beautifully talking about: manipulation, intrusive government propaganda, speech of hatred against opposition and thinking not on the line of the ruling party. The conclusions that Krakow scientists make public in this report - I strongly encourage you to read it - say, for example. I'll quote that in the case of news... The University of Papal, presenting allegations regarding the news, says: There is a selection of information and the order of their broadcast, which raises considerable doubts. Political and economic information is very unilateral. There is no critical approach to the presented content. There is a lack of pluralism and impartiality. Only one political option dominates. What? Of course, the PiS. Government representatives and Members of the PiS are present in hundreds, speeches, quotes, graphics and visions. There is a presence, very common, of propaganda material that praises the progress of the government; it is so-called. The propaganda of success. Of course, there is the advantage of hundreds and statements of journalists and publicists associated only with the ruling option or right-wing option - in the Network, in Politics. en, Gazeta Polska Each day. The principles of separating information from comments and opinions are also broken, and the opposition is always presented in a negative light. It is also very often suggested to the viewer how he should look at the situation. All these comments, which are presented in this report, are really talking about a very strong and large misuse of the Act on the National Radio and Television Council. I will no longer tell you what the comments are about Teleexpress, because they are very similar, but I have a question for Mr Czabański. At the meeting of our committee, Mr Czabański said that he would respond to this, so I would like to ask: Will Mr Czabański, the Council of National Media, refer to this report and draw conclusions? Will Mr. Czabański refer to the attacks on the Ombudsman, the ombudsman's family? Is there anything you can do to look at yourself in the mirror? There was propaganda at the time of the commune, but never after 1989 did any public television sting at people and caused people, like President Adamowicz, to be murdered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u368	Mr Richard Galla, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! Mr President! High Izbo! When discussing the report of the National Radio and Television Council and the information of the National Media Council on its activities in 2018, I would like to lean a bit on the mission of public media in terms of the environment of national and ethnic minorities. Ladies and gentlemen! The National and Ethnic Minorities Act requires public media to take into account the needs of national and ethnic minorities in their programmes. For years now, at the meetings of the Committee on National Minorities and Ethnic Minorities, minorities have taken up this subject, always talking about the deficit of the number of programmes devoted to minorities or minorities. I think this is very important, because this general social knowledge is insufficient and we often have such stereotypes that the biggest minorities in Poland are Roma and Jews, and that is not true. We don't really know who our close neighbor is. Public media is one of the institutions that should be responsible for this. It is about this element of education and information about this environment and for this environment. We can say that while at regional media level in some part of this mission is being carried out, at central media level we do not really carry out this mission. We have been paying attention to this in the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities for many years. Even this year we had a meeting where we hosted representatives of the National Radio and Television Council, but, ladies and gentlemen, there was no one from public television anymore. Nobody was. he can answer us why there is such a reluctance, why this mission, which is the duty of the public media, is not being carried out. In my experience, I intervened at the beginning of 2018 because one of the regional television channels practically refused to sign a programme agreement, which was prepared by a national minority, not by public media. It was just about airing, and there was a problem. That is why I would like to ask the President here to lean on this problem, to take certain measures that will make this mission, in terms of national and ethnic minorities, really work more closely at regional level, but also at central level. There is, I would say, a very strong decentralisation of different environments, e.g. They know very little, I do not know, in Podlaskie Voivodship about the German minority, which is mainly in Silesia, and vice versa. And maybe it would be a good idea for the central media to put such programs in place. And the other thing. What bothers us very much is that the current information... There are regional and central information, there are some very interesting, very valuable initiatives of minority communities. And what does it turn out to be? That information just doesn't exist. I'd really like to ask you to think about it. The second topic I would like to address is the issue of programming councils. As long as the National Radio and Television Council was responsible for setting up these programme councils, we had this situation that about eight representatives of different national and ethnic minorities participated in the work as members of these councils. After the amendment of the Act, when this task went to the level of the National Media Council, it was established that the Councils were 15 people. Ten members are clubs, politically speaking, the remaining five are representatives of organisations, especially regional ones, and we know that the law also says that where there is a minority environment and where programmes are broadcast for minorities, it is advisable that a minority representative is also a member of such a programme council. Today, virtually no minority organization has its representative on the programming boards. I would also like to ask you to reflect on whether this could not be done, and I know that it is possible for such representation to be on these programming boards, for which programmes are intended for national and ethnic minorities. This will make it much easier for minority communities, but also for the state, because in this way you will have direct contact with someone who will pay attention, which hurts individual national and ethnic minorities. That's what I'm asking. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u370	Mr Janusz Sanocki, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Kaminski rightly pointed out that there is a close link between the integrity of the media and the quality of democracy and the functioning of democracy. However, I am afraid that we have a problem not only with the media but also with democracy as such. Well, in May of this year I asked the State Election Commission to indicate to me a procedure under which, individually, a Polish citizen, using his constitutional right, can apply for a Member's mandate. After all, the Constitution gives us all equality and rights which are granted to a human person, a citizen. The State Election Commission met on 31 May, examined the issue and gave me a comprehensive reply, quoting the provisions of the electoral code and concluding as follows: as is clear from the above provisions, the electoral code does not provide for the possibility of individual application for a Member's mandate. You signed Wiesław Kozielewicz, Deputy Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that the constitution has been violated in connection with the amendment of the electoral code. [[Yeah, it is.]] Prof. Izabela Lewandowska-Malec from the Jagiellonian University, acting on my behalf, submitted a request to the Constitutional Court to investigate this issue, because in my opinion, the absolute and obvious violation of civil rights in Poland, the passive electoral right was taken away. I am also saying this in the context of the action and the National Media Council, and the National Radio and Television Council, because I tried to interest journalists in this topic, but somehow unsuccessfully. Journalists, including public television journalists, who have no interest in such an obvious matter, both legal and sociological as well as factual consequences. I hope they can fix this mistake. I don't know if it's an omission. I am asking you here, both Mr Czabański and the President of the National Council, to take an interest in this important subject, because since 31 May... I have suspected for a long time that this is the case, ma'am, but here we have proof provided by a state institution dealing with elections that individual electoral law in Poland has been violated, that the constitution is violated, which puts into question the legality of elections, at least the closest ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u372	Sixteen ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I know we're talking about the National Radio and Television Council, and we're just talking about TV, but nowhere's as bad as there. Mr Witold Kołodziejski, head of the National Radio and Television Council, has repeatedly been the recipient of our complaints and appeals for a change in the course of public television, but not much has been the result. I will tell you more, Witold Kołodziejski and the entire National Radio and Television Council are co-responsible for the erosion of the proper character of public broadcasters, because she did not react when Jacek Kurski systematically turned TVP into a government propaganda nightmare. TVP has become, ladies and gentlemen, its own caricature. So is the National Radio and Television Council in its current shape fulfilling its responsibilities? I'm saying no. My question to President Kołodziejski is as follows: Which border in spreading hostility and discouragement to everything that is not the result of the PiS government must cross public broadcasters... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... That's too much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u374	Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know if the High House knows, but the so-called ones are famous. stripes, stripes in news, stripes in TVP Info. [[Frightened stripes.]] I do not know if Mr Czabański, President Kołodziejski, knows these stripes. Supporters of the total opposition do not want the EU to help Polish farmers fight drought. The next belt: Total opposition and armed Lech Wałęsa want to take over the Supreme Court. I would now like to address the members of the National Radio and Television Council, because you are such an institution, a constitutional body. You don't think you're gonna be responsible for what you're doing. I'd like to inform you... [[Five seconds.]] ...that you are also responsible for the observance of the Constitution, the laws before the Court of State and may come such a day as... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u376	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u377	Ladies and gentlemen! Since the beginning of this term, almost PLN 2 billion has been transferred by the current authorities to the media so-called. public. I wanted to ask you what the money went to. That's our money. This money serves the daily propaganda of one party, and the activities of the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council only legitimize these activities. Both institutions do not respond to lies, manipulations, contempt, spreading hatred, exposing one another. I wanted to ask what action was taken by the National Council and the National Media Council in relation to the slandering of three-city self-governments in the so-called. public media. We know exactly what the policy of slander and slander in the media of President Adamowicz has led to. Please answer this question in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u378	Member of Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! In the second part of the name of the club is the Civic Coalition also. Remember that. After 1989, there was no such disgraceful public television. It is difficult for me to say the word "public." Since money for Polish Television is generated from our taxes, public television should carry out its mission towards citizens, for citizens, and should not serve one political party. And this television since Jarosław Kaczyński took over with Law and Justice, has been practicing party propaganda. Discussions during the committee's deliberations both in the case of the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council were very hot. Let me just say one more thing. Minister Czabański, Minister Kołodziejski, resign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u380	Mr Eve Drozd, Civic Platform Club. There is no Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. This is a subject that has been discussed many times, but I don't think anyone has asked why the National Radio and Television Council didn't initiate a review procedure in connection with the apparent violation by public television of the Radio and Television Act during the last election campaign before the elections to the European Parliament. TVP conducted a clear electoral agitation for the PiS party and its candidates, promoting these candidates and their programme. And not only did she promote these candidates, she not only slandered the opponents, but she even allowed to manipulate them with sound and image and create false information to mislead the public. That's all I'm saying, you'll find in a prepared report from the Journalist Society, which has been monitoring the last two weeks of the campaign, day after day, hour after hour. Anyone from the National Radio and Television Council... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u382	Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask what is the difference between public media and the media of Law and Justice today. Or let me ask you this: What would law and justice be without public media? Today we came to live in a country where the propaganda of TV PiS on public television is valued much higher than the health of Poles. You spend 1260 million PLN on this awful propaganda and do it without hesitation. On the other hand, only PLN 738 million was spent on chemotherapy in 2019 alone. The priorities are one and the same. [[Priority is a lie.]] All that matters is taking over power, maintaining power, wielding power. The headmaster of the hospital comes to President Kaczyński when he breaks his leg. But when it comes to chemotherapy, you take... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u384	Mr Richard Galla, Member of the Independent Committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u385	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the question to the President of the National Radio and Television Council. Mr President, you report on the amount of subscription appropriations used for the implementation of the programmes, and there you report on the amount of 802 000. PLN allocated to programmes for minorities. By the way, the next item is Belsat Television - PLN 33 873,000. Is this really what this proportion should look like? I'll leave that to you. On the other hand, I would like to ask, however, to show how this amount is spread across national minorities and in this context regional and central television. And I also lack information about the level of such measures on the public radio, because there are quite important measures there too. I'd like that information in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u386	Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report of the National Radio and Television Council shows that public media are doing great. Although the material is extensive, it is very laconic and thus worthless. The singers of good change are ignored, unreliability - unnoticed. It's written about pluralism. Yes, of course there is freedom of speech, everyone can say what they want in front of the Polish Television cameras, but in ether goes material manipulated. You're holding a whole army of journalists serving with power. They make coconuts because those presenters are lying for money. Public media received huge money from the state budget. Why? If TVP is so great, it can keep up with advertising money, just like it is in Polsata and TVN. The mission's not there anyway. Today, TVP is the largest PR agency of Law and Justice. And the question is, if it's so good, why is TVP's ratings dropping so lately? And second question: Who replaced Mrs Elżbieta Raven at the National Media Council [[♪ The bell ♪]] After the passage... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u388	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Two questions, two lines. The first issue concerns advertising with a higher volume, especially in the web site's video on demand, i.e. VOD. What measures do you intend to take to ensure that the content is also covered by these principles? Second line. I would ask for an evaluation of the National Media Council concerning the functioning of all regional centres of Polish Television, with particular attention to the Silesian, Katowice regional division of TVP SA in terms of programming and institutional aspects. Please send your synthetic opinion in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u390	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Mr Czabański, whether it is time to change the name of the institution he is directing. Because it's not the National Media Council - it's the PiS media Council, because it has nothing to do with national media. And I would very much ask you to take this seriously. The second point is information, which results from reports prepared by the ethics board or scientists from the University of Papal Poland in Krakow. I would like to know, and I would very much like to ask for a reply in writing from the President, what the National Radio Council did with the information it had first classified and then made public what it had done to prevent such a situation. Because if you haven't done anything, I have some doubts about whether you're just having trouble reading with understanding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u392	Member of Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u393	I wanted to ask the President of the National Media Council, the National Media Council, if you are investigating the President of the Rzeszów Radio for firing journalist Mrs. Grażyna Bochenek for the broadcast of 16 September 2018, when she allowed the voice of a listener who called President Duda a figureman? In this regard, the President of the Radio referred the case against the journalist to the prosecutor's office, reprimanded her. He accused the journalist of violating the President's personal belongings and finally fired her on 18 June 2019. Please answer us if you support the President, who does not allow and censor the statements of the journalist. How much Law and Justice have paid for advertising in the media, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause that's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u394	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u395	The Sejm should play a role in controlling the media council, the national council, the public media. But what role can we really talk about when this debate is, when we don't respect ourselves, when I am actually sitting, listening to this debate, no question can be answered, because the marshal, without respecting this House, without respecting the Members, does not simply let us finish his sentence and exclude...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u396	I respect Members' time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u397	Don't interrupt me, don't take my time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u398	And if you can't fit in a minute...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u399	Don't take my time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u400	... I'm gonna have to take your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u401	Don't take my time. This is fiction, not control role, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] because the fiction in Poland is the control of Parliament, just as the fiction is your power, because you can't do anything. What can you do to President Kursk? You can do so much for President Kursk - after all, we read what is happening - what you can do to you, means nothing. This is one big fiction this whole debate, this country you've created. We don't have a democratic state, we just have a state ruled by one not too tall man, and... [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, the bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u402	Wojciech the King, Civic Platform. You've managed to fit in. [[Don't interrupt me. I'm sorry, what did you say?]] That you were able to fit in a minute. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council also deals with information on the fundamental problems of radio and television. And here is the question to the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council: Do you not see, do you not really see that today's fundamental problem of radio and television is the lack of reliability, lies and manipulation on public television? Why isn't Mr. Chairman responding? I asked that last year, with last year's report. Why aren't you doing your constitutional duty? Because your indifference in the future, and perhaps in the near future, will be judged as a flagrant failure to fulfil your duties. That is why, Mr President, I ask: when will the citizens get your reaction? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u404	Mr Maria Nowak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the regional TVP centers. The national media also include Polish Radio, and public television, but the organization of these two media varies. Radio is a company, so regional broadcasters have greater freedom, greater independence. Hence the question: Are organisational changes envisaged in the future in TVP, and I mean specifically, is there an increase in the bands allocated to regional centres, or will there be increased funding for these centres? The viewers, including the regional channel, primarily want to know what is happening in their region, and very often they get news from Warsaw. Are there any changes planned in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u406	Member of Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have two letters here, to the President of the National Radio and Television Council and to the President of the National Media Council. I'll send these letters to you soon. In these writings I address the issue of the regional branch of Polish Television in Białystok, although it cannot be called Polish Television, because it must be called PiS-owska TV. Journalists of Polish Television last year virtually did not come to my press conferences, this year they were not at any of the eight conferences, although to other Members, e.g. Members of the PiS, they are coming. So I would like to ask you: Is it normal that journalists of the Polish Television Division in Bialystok do not come to the Polish Parliament for press conferences? Is this how this pluralism of public media should look? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u408	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Would you like to speak? Yes? Please, President of the National Media Council, Mr Krzysztof Czabański. [[Applause]] [[He hasn't said anything yet.]] [[And for that stupid applause of $5,000. PLN per month.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u409	Never too much. [[Excuse me?]] Never too much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. [[At least you know what you value...]] I would also like to thank you very much for your participation in the debate. The questions actually to me, which is to the National Media Council, were not. There have been opinions sometimes in the form of a question. [[No, it was. Mine was.]] Actually, from what I've been writing down, there was a question about Mrs. Elizabeth Raven, and I will answer that question, of course. [[A reporter from Rzeszow.]] There are no legal obstacles for Mrs Elżbieta Kruk to continue to be a member of the National Media Council, so the question about who will replace her is a question for no reason. There's no... [[Have you checked the European regulations? Because, in my opinion, European laws prohibit.]] There have been expert reports from the relevant Parliamentary Offices, and on the basis of these reports, I am saying what I am saying to you now, too. They were also expressed primarily by your opinions. Of course, I am not losing hope that someday the Members of the opposition will come off the wrong path... [[Don't bother.]] ...and change their minds. [[Voice from the gym: After the election.]] After all, maybe... I never lose hope like this, anyone can go back to the right path. [[Poland's television will come back someday.]] But I do not hope that this will happen right now, and therefore I will not argue with these opinions. I'm just going to limit myself to a little thoughtful shortcut, but I think it's very eloquent and meaningful. Well, you're very complaining about what's going on with public media. I remember at one of the election meetings in the last campaign people asked me to make these media really change and to disappear this palace of culture from the headline news. You know, the symbol of Soviet domination, I'm not gonna talk about it all. This palace of culture has disappeared, the Royal Castle has appeared, and this is the good change that we have made and which we will continue in public media. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's the only change.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u410	Thank you very much. Mrs Skowrońska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u411	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The chairman of the National Media Council missed the truth. There were real questions. I asked about the journalist who was fired, Mrs. Grażyna Bochenek from the Rzeszów Radio, and the conduct of proceedings against the President of the Rzeszów Radio, and Mr. Chairman did not answer. I asked you how much this piss ad cost on public television. You didn't answer that question either. So you are trying to disregard the High House and the role that you perform, which requires a fair presentation of the report, secondly, to give a fair answer to your questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And news isn't even the Earthman wants to drive anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u412	There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u413	I would not like you to think that I am avoiding the appropriate question. Well, as far as employment in media companies is concerned, this case concerned these companies, not the National Media Council, and it would be terrible if we were getting into it. You're just about to have a grudge against us and a charge. [[But the basics, the basics... don't go through with it.]] ...the charges, too. But in general, perhaps it is not only the Member who is dissatisfied with what I have said. It's okay. I can handle it. I'll answer in writing. Please repeat your questions if you believe that they have not been answered. [[They'll be on the record.]] [[But they'll be in the minutes, Mr. Chairman.]] I undertake to provide written answers to any questions you consider to be omitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u414	Thank you very much. [[I'd like to repeat the questions.]] Excuse me, but in what mode? [[But your marshal, we'd like to repeat the questions.]] No. Excuse me, sir. Anna Elizabeth Sobecka asks for the floor as rapporteur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u415	Thank you, Marshal. [[I wanted to ask you if you know that Mr. Earthman doesn't want to lead the news.]] Can I have it now? Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus has asked me a question, and in fact a reservation, she has accused me of concealing the fact that I have voted three times. Well, Commissioner, I think that you listened to me very carefully, because I said that the committee met three times in this matter and only in the last vote, the result of which was... It is true, on the other hand, that there was a vote in this case, in which 10 votes were in favour and 10 against, with 1 abstention, which states that the proposal had not received a majority at the time. That was the first vote. There were two more meetings. I regret that even the Pope can be fooled by such persuasive rhetoric, and that is why I have tried to explain it to you. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I have listened very carefully to all the speeches and I will again remind you of what I said at the committee meeting: the abuse by the president of Ślesinska-Katarasinska... [[Spleidian.]] ...is to say that this is a devastating opinion issued on the basis of a report prepared by the papal institute. In this case, you said Prof. Dorota Kubick, who at the Jagiellonian University conducted the subject of psychology of media influence. And what does she say? Well, from the point of view of the purpose of the title of the study, i.e. the protection of the state of the Polish language, it is a mistake to analyze only the content of the stripes. It is only the analysis of the entire communication that allows us to determine whether there are discrediting, aggressive, lies, etc., or whether this is justified in substance and appropriate criticism. And one more statement: the language of political information These are not only stripes, which is why it is a mistake not only to limit ourselves to the analysis of the stripes themselves, but also to analyze such a cheap sample as 306 stripes out of 9,000. - all were selected on the basis of arbitrary decisions by the authors. [[One person against the whole council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude my statement justifying that these were misunderstood statements. All I'm gonna say is that it's an art. The 21th President Katarasińska mentioned is indeed talking about the public media mission. But what's in it? And what should television observe? He says that public television has the task of countering social pathology, strengthening the family and respecting Christian values. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Exactly.]] [[And there's no mercy.]] Mercy is always there. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your work and for your comments on this report. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u416	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolutions. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We therefore proceed to the second reading of the draft resolutions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the projects? [[There it is.]] I can see the call. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u417	Thank you very much. Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u418	I'm so sorry. These are my debuts. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in a joint discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! Well, if yesterday had been a discussion on the report of the Polish Language Council, Mrs Sobecka could have presented these arguments and the president of the Polish Language Council would have presented the counter-arguments. And just closing this discussion, not considering this report was a violation of the Polish language law and regulations, and that's all I wanted to say. And as for art. 21, then everyone there will read what he likes, although I believe that if Christian values were respected on public television, the programs would be different. But what I'm trying to say is that when I was talking about art. 21, I was talking about the fact that the programmes should: follow the responsibility for the word and take care of the good name of public radio and television - they do not do so, they do not honestly show the variety of events and phenomena in the country and abroad - they do not do so, they do not promote the free development of citizens' views - they do not do so. So this is what the dispute is about between us, Member. And the fact that public radiophony and television, when carrying out a public mission, should, on the basis of the principles set out in the Act, offer to the public and individual groups a variety of programmes and other services in the field of information, publicity, culture, entertainment, education and sport, characterised by pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence, and the public broadcaster does not do so. For this reason, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition proposes two amendments to the draft resolution of the Committee on Culture and Media. The first is: the Sejm of the Republic of Poland does not accept the report of the National Council of Radiophony and Television from its activities in 2018. The second amendment reads: The Polish Parliament does not accept information about the activities of the National Media Council in 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u420	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of questions you are asking? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will be asked as the first question. You're welcome, sir. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask Mr Kołodziejski and Mr Czabański, because I do not consider the Council of National Media to be a constitutional body, how you felt when medical residents were created on TVPiS. We remember the protest of medical residents who, on our behalf, of all Poles and Poles, performed to make the Polish state spend 6,8% GDP for health care. Then TVP presented programs aimed at slandering future doctors who decided to join the hunger protest on our behalf. You presented articles, materials about doctors eating caviar sandwiches, you showed protesting doctors as luxurious, traveling on numerous foreign trips, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You showed pictures of humanitarian missions in Kurdistan as photos of young doctors' holidays. Would you please apologize for these materials, the disgraceful materials? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u422	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u423	I will remind the President of the National Media Council that I asked about the journalist Mrs Grażyna Bochenek from the Polish Radio Rzeszów. And that's the answer I'm looking forward to. In the context of Mr Szczerba's statement, I would like to ask, since the programmes that are broadcast on public television are very manipulative to public opinion, serve only the interests of Law and Justice, and some people are sick of watching public television, whether you will seek a valuation which is a PIS advertisement for which the PIS has not paid. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u424	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u425	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will ask again, because unfortunately I did not get the answer, whether the normal thing is that the public television branch in Bialystok does not come to press conferences of the Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Is that normal? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Which one? Which one?]] You should have been in the O.R., you'd have heard which one. Another question. Is it normal that two people from the PiS and one person from the opposition are always invited to public programmes, i.e. there are two people from one party and two from opposition parties, but different parties? Is it normal that there are always more people from PiS than from other parties in publishing programs? Next question. Will there be any consequences for journalists who last year during the so-called. audits at municipal offices [[♪ The bell ♪]] They went into town with the PiS members, the PiS candidates? I think some people's behavior was outrageous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u426	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to urge, remind and ask that the President of the National Radio and Television Council should answer the questions of Members, and ask the Marshal to oblige the President of the National Radio and Television Council, if he is here, to present a report before the High House, to come out and answer our questions. I would also like to ask the President of the National Media Council what his duties are. What is the responsibility of the National Media Council? Because every time Members in the plenary or committee ask you something, you say that this is not your responsibility. So I'd like to know what your duties are. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: The Act read.]] [[Read the report.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u428	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I don't see a report from the National Radio and Television Council... Oh, I see. So Mr Witold Kołodziejski, Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u429	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I'm at my disposal. I've listened to the whole discussion. Many statements were made and many opinions were presented, but these were not questions. I'm going to address those questions you're looking forward to, I think, the answers. With regard to the statement by Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasinska, a number of allegations and comments have been made, as well as the situations that have been put forward as quite serious. According to the President, there have been violations of the law, hence those comparisons with the courtroom, with reference to the law itself. Ladies and gentlemen, the Radio and Television Act contains a broad catalogue of obligations and rights of all broadcasters, not just public broadcasters. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland itself ensures freedom of the press and other social media, art. 54 also says that everyone is given the freedom to express their views and to obtain and disseminate information. I assure you, Madam President, that all the activities of the national council are being prepared and conducted under the Radio and Television Act. Anywhere where he's disturbed, for example. a catalogue of prohibited things, that is, art. The 18th Radio and Television Act is the national council's response, and it often arouses great emotions. I will remind you of the punishments for the various broadcasters, then these discussions were held. The National Radio and Television Council tries to do so, so to apply and interpret the law so as to apply it equally to all broadcasters. Where there's a violation of the law, we react. Recently, the Ombudsman wrote to the National Council a complaint against television, just with the charge of breaking the law. It was about the broadcast, about the release of news after the death of President Gdansk. It was a non-pluralistic presentation of examples of hate speech, because it showed only one option. But on the same day, Madam President, there was a former Marshal of the Sejm, Mr Bogdan Borusewicz, and former President of Warsaw, Ms Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, who practically lynched public television, referring to the murder of President Gdansk. In both cases, we had complaints and in both cases we had a fair analysis of the statutory conditions. [[There's a difference.]] So if you're demanding that at this point, at this point, you react decisively and be more harshly to the person himself, then in the latter case you should also demand it, so should you demand that the consequences be drawn in the case of commercial stations... [[Don't go into politics. Answer the question.]] I answer, Member. [[Voice from the room: Do not interrupt.]] We're not discussing. We're just... I have time for answers now. [[Voice in the room: You don't answer questions, you go...]] I'm not going. I'm just saying. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, we must respond to everyone, and that is what we are trying to do. Freedom of speech is a very delicate matter, indeed very sensitive and will always cause a lot of controversy. As for the billions spent on TVP, then, ladies and gentlemen, there are billions spent on public media over the years, on 17 radio companies, on public television with 16 centres, on sports, culture, entertainment, public media, film, also information. But the most expensive elements of these expenses... [[Game in the O.R.]] Can I say something? Because you've had the opportunity, you've talked a lot, and I have the only chance to speak. The most costly cases are not related to information, they are related to other missionary elements. This is not enough for the national council to stress all the time that this money for public media is not enough and every national council in every composition has stressed this. Regarding the devastating monitoring performed by John Paul's University II, which, in the opinion of the Member, has appeared on the national council's website, did not appear, only the national council has published its monitoring, because this is our monitoring, we have paid for it, as it has published other monitorings. Please note that on the same side of the national board these monitorings are next to others and need to be reviewed. There is, for example. monitoring of the media events of 16 December 2017, which in turn shows the very biased involvement of the commercial station in the description of political events, and very critical of your monitoring, so you are selective about the analysis. But even if it's selective... Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus made a burning appeal, analyzed the monitoring: I encourage you to read this monitoring. I, Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, encouraged her at the committee meeting and also now encourage her to read this monitoring, because I continue to say that she did not read it or read only parts of it, or the journalist chose it because there were articles like this. in the Gazeta Wyborcza. I'm saying that someone can't say such foolish things if they don't read, they don't know all the security cameras. Ladies and gentlemen, the monitoring describes the implementation of the financial and programme plans of all public broadcasters, i.e. television, and radio companies, describes the implementation in all these selected emission categories and shows how much the contribution is made, how much work all public media companies carry out. The information section and the information description on information and publicity programmes are only one part. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been several thousand hours of television programme analyzed, assigning certain categories, certain weights, and if one of these thousands of hours takes 1 hour, it is no wonder that on this basis he can build such a narrative. But it's not true, it doesn't tell the truth. It's demagogy, and I'm gonna go ahead and sum it up. If we choose from this monitoring of the evaluation of information and publicity programmes, we will see that e.g. average assessments of pluralism, objectiveness assessments of TVP information programmes are 75% , at 78% ,81%,89% , average assessments, and individuals are higher, and you have to talk about it and at best discuss whether it is much or little. But that's not a negative assessment. whether positive, it is the introduction of a single measure used to compare, the use of a method that really needs to be applied comparatively, monitoring other television stations, which notabene in their concessions have principles of objectivity and pluralism enshrined in the same way as public television. As for the stripes, because Mr Szczerba asked about the stripes, he quoted them - Mr Szczernoś, you read some stripes - I do not know if that is true. Or not what you've read. I believe it was on the stripes, but I don't know if they're telling the truth or not, because I didn't compare it, I didn't check it out. The stripes are a press title and should be read so. Please indicate, if any, that this is false information, as in web headlines or press headlines, where there are generalizations that may mislead the viewer. Ladies and gentlemen! Here, once again, there has been an accusation against the public broadcaster that the level of audience is falling. Yeah, it's true, the ratings are falling, but the ratings are falling to all TV broadcasters, because some of the audience is moving to the Internet, to new media, and that's where it's located. I don't know, that's the nature of the market. So it is not true that the level of public television is falling exceptionally, but it falls to the entire television market in a similar way, and public television is the strongest television group on the Polish market, has a 30% share of the market share of the audience, which means it still maintains its position as a leader. Mr Truskolaski asked if it was normal that TV did not come to him for conferences. I don't know how I'm gonna ask you that. That's normal, because television... [[Is it normal that they come and sign? Oh, normal.]] Normal, sir. There is no obligation for a television crew to come to you at your beck and call, and you must accept it - even if it is public television. [[Art. 21 Radio and TV Act.]] Mr Szczerby's question - how did we feel, if we could apologize - is Mr Szczerby's question. I don't know, Mr Honourable is not here. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] These are non-essential questions, sir. Excuse me, sir, but I'm not going to comment on them at all. On the other hand, I also wanted to address Mr Kaminski, who is not in the Chamber, because he left immediately after he gave his speech. So briefly, ladies and gentlemen, because it was all about contempt, sharing Poles, speech of hatred, things like that. These issues are listed in the catalogue of values and limitations, which are an exception to the principles arising from the statutory and constitutional freedom of expression. Yes, spreading hate speech is such an example, but I can honestly say that every time we engage in a dialogue with broadcasters in some way, the broadcasters always respond and justify that these are not their own statements, nor their journalists, nor publishers, nor authors, but these are the statements of guests or persons asked to speak, and 90% are politicians, which I have never said in this forum, but after today's discussion, after the invectives that have fallen here, also personal, towards different people, politicians, I think that the political class is most responsible for spreading hate speech. As far as Mr Kaminski is concerned, I value his rhetorical talent very much. Today, with extraordinary emphase, as usual, he spoke about lies, contempt, the division of Poles, the Polish-Polish war. I value not only the emphase and style of Mr Kaminski, but also the permanence of the expressed message, because he said the same thing when he was a spin doctor of PiS, only then he had another recipient. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u430	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, asks for the floor as corrected. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to correct and clarify a perhaps incomprehensible question that I have asked concerning the so-called. Stripes. It is not a coincidence that the Polish Language Council in its report for 2016 and 2017 drew attention to the fact that the stripes in the news of TVP are an instrument - here is a quote - in a political fight serving one of the political actors in order to create one's own vision of the world and impose it on its citizens. And another quote, Mr President, because perhaps you do not know this report: Many stripes use unethical language treatments, such as labelling, stigmatisation, stereotyping, which are beneficial for the sender of word operations. That's the problem. I would like to see that the National Radio and Television Council has looked at this report and has also spoken on this issue. I gave two examples, in my opinion shocking, because completely lying, untrue. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaskała, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u433	Thank you, Marshal. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. You said that you did not know whether public television should come to press conferences of the Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, in particular the Member of the Sejm, and here you referred to me, on the side of the opposition. Dear Mr President, in the article. The 21th Radio and Television Act states: public radiophony and television carry out a public mission by offering, on the basis of the principles set out in the Act, to the public and to the various parts of it, diverse programmes and services in the field of information, publicity, culture, entertainment, education and sport - and most importantly - characterised by pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence and innovation, high quality and integrity of the transmission. Mr President, I have this question: Where is this pluralism? [[Voice from the room: Maybe it was in the entertainment program?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u434	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel also asked for the floor in the procedure of correcting, but your name, Mrs Małgorzata, was not mentioned in the President's speech. [[I have a question for the president.]] But we have already finished the questions, Madam, and your name has not been mentioned in the answer given by... [[But I didn't get an answer to a very important question.]] But in what mode, then? [[One sentence.]] Okay, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u435	Thank you very much. I would like to repeat the question which is very important to me, because I am from Pomerania, to the President of the National Council of Radiophony and Television: What action has the council taken in relation to the slandering of tri-urban local government officials in public media? It led to disaster, tragedy. I ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u436	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to both draft resolutions tabled, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on these drafts following the delivery to the Members of the table of amendments tabled. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolutions in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws (print No 3541). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed bill amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws contained in Sejm Print No 3541, aims to create the basis for dematerialisation of shares of public limited liability companies and limited liability companies which are not subject to compulsory dematerialisation within the meaning of the Public Offering Act and the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and therefore of companies not public limited liability companies. Dematerialisation of shares will contribute to increasing the safety and efficiency of trading in shares and simplifying the legal structures associated with this trading by enabling easy identification of the person entitled to the share. The trading of dematerialised shares will also increase transparency and the efficiency of the exchange of information in tax matters in accordance with OECD standards. The tax administration will be able to obtain and exchange information on shareholders of public limited liability companies and limited liability companies holding bearer shares. The current construction of bearer shares makes Poland a high-risk country which does not guarantee the exchange of tax information on bearer shares because it is not possible to identify them. This can lead, among others. to abuse the trading of shares, e.g. as part of money laundering. The project provides for the collection of data on shareholders and shares held by them in the shareholder register kept on the basis of a contract concluded separately by each joint-stock company and limited-liability company with an entity authorised to maintain securities accounts. This solution guarantees the reliability of keeping the register and the reliability of the data disclosed in it. Alternatively, each company may choose to register shares in accordance with the rules of the current public companies, i.e. recording of shares in the securities deposit. Both bearer shares and registered shares will be dematerialised. With regard to bearer shares, it must be stated that their construction does not serve to hide the shareholder but to facilitate the performance of the function of the bearer shares as a bearer security. As a result of the dematerialisation of the shareholders of the public limited liability company with a small number of shareholders, and such companies in Poland are the most, they will obtain from the point of view of identification a status similar to those of the limited liability company. There is no justification to guarantee the anonymity of shareholders of small public limited liability companies where such guarantees do not exist for limited liability companies. In respect of registered shares, dematerialisation means the elimination of the risks associated with disputes around entries in the public record in particular in conflict situations between shareholders and in operations of hostile acquisitions of companies. The dematerialisation of registered shares will constitute another natural step in the digitisation of the stock book, which is based on the current article. 341 § 8 of the Commercial Companies Code could be carried out in the form of electronic recording and on the basis of Article. 342 of this law could be carried out by a bank or an investment firm. The non-dematerialisation of registered shares would result in companies having to maintain two separate systems for registration of rights from shares - the register of shareholders for bearer shares and the book of shares for registered shares - which would not only cause nuisance for companies, but would also increase the costs of their operation and complicate the legal environment. Dematerialisation will introduce a single regime for the transfer of rights from shares, regardless of whether registered shares or bearer shares are traded, which will create the possibility of reducing costs and increasing the safety of trading in shares of non-listed companies. This regime will be based primarily on the disclosure function - in the case of non-public companies - in the shareholder register. The entry in the shareholder register is an analogy to the issue of the document and is therefore important not only for the identification of the person entitled to the shares but also for the transfer of rights from shares outside the stock exchange. As a result of the dematerialisation, the status of shares of non-public companies will be brought closer to the status of shares of public companies which are the subject of a public offer to be admitted to trading on a regulated market or introduced into an alternative trading venue. Dematerialisation of shares of non-public companies and full dematerialisation of shares of public companies is a sign of time. It should be noted that the existing rules provide for optional dematerialisation of securities such as bonds, investment certificates or bank securities. The absence of provisions allowing the dematerialisation of shares should therefore be considered as anachronism. This draft law is opposed to the development of information technology. The benefits of dematerialisation of shares resulting from the elimination of costs arising from the need to print, store and transport document securities should be highlighted. The introduction of a dematerialised form of shares reduces the risks associated with the loss of securities, their getting into the wrong hands or unauthorized activities involving documentary securities. This risk applies in particular to bearer securities for which the confidence in trading expressed in the ability to acquire rights from those securities is broadly protected, in good faith, in accordance with the rules laid down in the Civil Code. Dematerialisation reduces the risks associated with the disposal of securities and thus reduces the scope of cases where it is necessary to consider acquisition from unauthorised ones. This is mainly due to the waiver of the document form of the security, but also to the entrusting of keeping registers or accounts to qualified entities subject to State supervision. Those entities shall keep records and accounts in such a way as to minimise the risk of incorrect records and defective transfers. The dematerialisation of shares and the existence of a register kept by qualified entities, which are supervised by the Financial Supervision Commission, allow the use of the existing continuously improved and tested IT infrastructure for more than 20 years, as well as the procedures applied to public company shares, and consequently reduce to a minimum the risks associated with the acquisition of shares from an unauthorised person. The project also provides for the obligation for public limited liability companies and limited liability companies to operate their own website. The purpose of such an obligation is to facilitate communication between companies and their shareholders, since the obligation to maintain a website is linked to the obligation to publish notices from the company on this website. It is also required to disclose the address of the party in the National Court Register. The introduction of a solution providing for the conduct by all public limited liability companies, not only public ones, the website will increase the effectiveness of the protection of minority shareholders' rights, reduce the risk of information in such a way as not to inform shareholders in practice, which is particularly common in situations of conflicts in shareholders' and management companies, and promote stability and safety of trading, which is a systemic value. Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The proposed legal solutions implement OECD recommendations for the existing trading of bearer shares in Poland by allowing reliable information about the holder of the shares by both the company, the trading participants and the tax administration, which will improve the effectiveness of the system against money laundering and terrorist financing, and eliminating the risk of classification of Poland internationally to countries not meeting the standards of exchange of information, together with the so-called group. tax havens. Therefore, I ask the High House to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u438	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act, contained in print No 3541. The purpose of the Government's submission is to increase transparency and efficiency of the exchange of information in tax matters in line with OECD standards, as well as to ensure that tax authorities can obtain and exchange information on shareholders of public limited liability companies and limited liability companies with bearer shares. It is also important to increase the security of trading in securities by introducing mandatory dematerialisation of shares. It should be stressed that the current construction of bearer shares guaranteeing the anonymity of the shareholder causes Poland to be included in high-risk countries, which do not guarantee the exchange of tax information about bearer shares holders, as it is not possible to identify them, which could lead to fraud in the trading of shares, for example in the context of money laundering. This problem is already partially resolved in the case of public companies, in which we are dealing with the actual transformation of bearer shares into registered shares. It is therefore possible to determine the owner after an analysis of the stock account maintained by the brokerage house, which is the result of the compulsory dematerialisation of the shares and the replacement of the document with an account record. The proposed regulations will lead to the establishment of a single legal framework by introducing an autonomous trading regime for shares of non-public companies. The project, maintaining the division between registered shares and bearer shares, introduces the legal basis for compulsory dematerialisation of shares. As a result, each action, whether it is a bearer or a name action, has de facto the status of a registered share allowing also the identification of a shareholder entitled to bearer shares in legal cases. The solutions contained in the government proposal go in the right direction. Therefore, on behalf of my club, I request that the proposal be directed to further legislative work in the committee responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u440	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition - Mr Zdzisław Gawlik will speak. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I wanted to present my position on the proposed law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. Basically, as the previous speakers have already mentioned, the proposed law is moving towards the introduction into the Commercial Companies Code of the basis for compulsory dematerialisation of shares of non-listed public limited liability companies and shares of limited liability companies. The introduction of the proposed amendment to the Commercial Companies Code will eliminate from our system of law, existing since 1934 in the Polish system of private law, the system of division of shares of the public limited liability company into registered shares and bearer shares. It must have been 85 years for someone to come up with this kind of solution. Dematerialisation is the actual liquidation of bearer shares and is a kind of circumvention of the law. My previous speaker, presenting the club's position with regard to the proposed legal act, said that we didn't eliminate those bearer shares. We're not eliminating, but we're putting in place a system where bearer shares remain only by name. The designer, having set up a goal, uses tools that may give rise to the false belief that nothing has changed with regard to the type of bearer shares in question. The analysis of the justification of this proposal leads to the belief that it is completely different. At the same time, it points out that there is a continuation of various changes or practices undertaken by the rulers over the last 3.5 years in various areas of social and economic life, which are the implementation of the idea that the state wants to know everything about everything and everyone. The introduction of this change undermines the state's confidence in a citizen who is deprived of anonymity in business. In the explanatory memorandum, the developer argues that the existing legal system makes it impossible to identify a shareholder and raises concerns about abuses, inter alia. with regard to the danger of money laundering. The wisdom of the Polish legislator of 1990, who introduced changes to the Civil Code concerning securities that created their general principles, was that the solutions adopted at that time not only defined nothing but also did not restrict the ways in which securities were created. This certainly gave great freedom and was used to create a security as an instrument to support economic development. As regards the regulation of the Civil Code, it must be added that in addition to registered securities and on request, bearer securities may also be created and created. The proposed change with regard to dematerialisation of registered shares tries to eliminate one type of share, one type of bearer security, but does not eliminate other types of bearer securities, i.e. essentially this assumed change of these effects does not bring. The proposed change, on the other hand, causes the differences between the limited liability company and the public limited liability company, as the Minister said. It does not appear that the circumstances in favour of dematerialisation are the elimination of the anonymity of the shareholder vis-à-vis the shareholder in the company of O.O. Nor does it seem advisable to refer to history or old doctrinal concepts to justify dematerialisation. If by dematerialization we want to align the status of partner of the company with the o.o. and a shareholder, this raises the question of why to maintain different differences, especially when they occur in the area of the creation or operation of companies of one or another type. Nor do they support the argument that dematerialisation would increase the safety and efficiency of trading in shares by reducing the costs of this trading and would even lead to its simplification and a better guarantee of relations in the company, as stressed by the designers. Consequently, the proposed change undermines the state's confidence in the citizen and eliminates its anonymity. And this, as I mentioned, occurred in the Polish system not only in relation to the public limited liability company and bearer shares, but also in relation to the so-called. a silent partnership, which has a permanent place in other legal systems, e.g. ct [[♪ The bell ♪]] the French system as Société anonyme. None of the advantages identified by the designers justifies support for this proposal. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, I propose that the proposed amendment to the Commercial Companies Code be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u442	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u443	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. Dear country, you are proposing a very far-reaching change, a change of the rules on which it is built and on which the Commercial Companies Code is based, arguing that the OECD has threatened and said that the shares must be dematerialised because this will increase transparency. I would very much like you to listen so much to the voice of the OECD when it talks about the fact that in Poland there is really no guarantee of passive electoral law. If you leaned on it - the OECD also said - then you could actually take seriously all the actions you have done here and bear in mind that you have good intentions. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, referring to the proposal made just now to reject this project at first reading - no, we will not be in favour of this proposal to reject it, because I would very much like it to be a bit of a burning hope, but I would very much like to see a real and fair debate on this subject in committee. Perhaps only the members of the committee will realize how far-reaching these changes are in fact in the Commercial Companies Code, and perhaps you will reflect in some way and change your mind. It is not so that you will formally dematerialize the shares. They will, of course, be able to have such a dimension that it will be written somewhere on paper, that this is a bearer action, but in practice all registers, etc., this dematerialisation - this will make it necessary to change the rules on which the Code of Commercial Companies is built. The question is, is that what you want to do? I hope that we will answer this question at the committee meeting or at committee meetings when we are proceeding on this draft amendment to the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u444	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats, Mr Michał Jan Mazowiecki will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u445	High Seym! On behalf of the club PSL - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. The project aims to increase transparency and efficiency in the exchange of information in tax matters, in line with OECD standards, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The tax administration will be able to obtain and exchange information on shareholders of public limited liability companies and limited liability companies with bearer shares - so-called. dematerialisation of the action. The project provides for compulsory dematerialisation of bearer shares and registered shares of public limited liability companies and limited liability companies which are not subject to compulsory dematerialisation. Dematerialisation of shares will contribute to increasing the safety and efficiency of trading in shares and simplifying the legal structures associated with such trading by enabling easy identification of the person entitled to the share. The benefits generally identified with the dematerialisation process and, above all, the elimination of costs arising from the need to print, store and transport document securities should be highlighted. The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats is in favour of further proceding the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u446	Thank you very much, sir. Three parliamentarians signed up for the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice will be the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions in relation to the project under consideration: How are the risks related to IT security of keeping a deposit of dematerialised shares assessed and what is the difference in the estimated cost of handling the existing and proposed system? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, Piotr, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u448	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We live in a country where everyone can be monitored by law. It's just a matter of getting some motivation for why we're watching him. Is dematerialisation of bearer shares a further development of a police state? Because nowhere in the world does the economic market survive such situations. Has anyone calculated estimates of how much we're going to lose, apart from economic losses, image, throughout the entire trading company system? Has anyone calculated the costs associated with the preparation of websites, and who will? Unless there's already some prediction. Aren't you afraid of the outflow of investment, actually investors and capital, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who's going to invest if we keep looking at our hands, who's pulling money out of their pockets? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u450	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u451	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have this question: are you aware that by introducing this dematerialisation, you are essentially eliminating registered shares, I'm sorry, as a bearer, because if it is necessary to enter and keep a register of registered bearer shares, that is, Denial of the concept of bearer action? That's one thing. And secondly, asking for an answer to the question: In which countries are you proposing a system here, you postulate, it already works, because maybe it's some sort of pattern. foreign to us, or perhaps these are the patterns that we should imitate? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u452	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u453	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, who have asked questions! With regard to Mr Pyzik's questions, in our view, the introduction of a dematerialised form to a wider extent than the current risk does not actually cause, in itself, the positive things that I have already mentioned here in my speech. After all, we have a system in which the National Securities Depository operates, a system in which the Financial Supervision Commission exercises control over the market, overseeing the market for dematerialised shares, those in public trading, which today operates. And there are no complaints, we have no such knowledge, there are no arguments to suggest that something is wrong with this already dematerialized market. On the contrary, this market is well regulated, the IT tools that are being used have been improved for 20 years. In fact, thanks to the law, we will extend this good regulation and the good tools that are used in the wider segment of the market. it is in the interests of marketing safety, and also in the interests of reducing costs. In our view, the costs for companies will fall and not increase because we have 48 entities that can potentially keep a register in such a form, which means that there is competition, there is no monopoly that always works negatively with regard to the interests of those who operate on the market, and the costs that I have already mentioned will fall, the costs of printing shares, their specific security, transport costs, the costs of crimes that may be committed against documents. It's, it seems, obvious. Besides, we're in the 21st century, not in the 19th century, and the whole world is moving on to information technology. From documents that can always be forged, you walk away. Why should we keep solutions that are currently anachronistic? There have been references to a system that has been in force for 80 years. It's time for some things that were good before World War II broke out to end. And I think it's obvious with respect to public limited liability companies and limited liability companies. When it comes to overshadowing the difference between the company... between bearer shares and registered shares, we have not decided on such a profound reform to completely eliminate this division. We're leaving it. Perhaps in the future there will be time to give it up, but let us observe how this law will work in practice. This is not a police state. If someone here dares to claim that we are introducing some kind of control, we are introducing laws that are incredibly dangerous to civil liberties, then it is in deep error, unless those who say so are smarter than the British, smarter than the Czechs, smarter than the Luxembourgs, smarter than the Swiss, smarter than the Belgians. These are all economies - and pity - still more advanced than the Polish economy, richer, better organized. I hope that someday we will be able to look down on the representatives of these economies, but for today they have already done so. And that's where the civilized world is headed. I do not know why Poland would be lagging behind, on the contrary, we should introduce this law, and once again I ask the High House to do so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u454	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. I kindly inform the High House that a proposal to reject the bill at first reading has already been made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 19.55, when are we going to vote? Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 50 hrs 19 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the National Radio and Television Council in 2018 together with information about the basic problems of radio and television in 2018 and the Commission's draft resolution. An amendment was tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendment has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. The amendment was delivered to print No 3546. In the amendment, the applicant proposes a new wording of the draft resolution. The adoption of this amendment will render the Commission's proposal in print 3546 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the amendment, and thus in favour of the resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2018, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 387 Members voted. It was 145 against 233, with a hold of 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the whole draft resolution as proposed by the Committee on Culture and Media. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print resolution 3546 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 395 Members voted. For - 225, against - 163, with a hold of 7. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2018. We return to the consideration of item 10 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018 together with a draft resolution from the Commission. An amendment was tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendment has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. The amendment was delivered to print No 3513. In the amendment, the applicant proposes a new wording of the draft resolution. The adoption of this amendment will render the Commission's proposal in print 3513 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, so in favour of adopting a resolution on information from the National Media Council in 2018, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. For - 166, against - 230, with a hold of 8. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for you, Deputy Prime Minister Glinski. Do you know the report by the Prime Minister, the report of the Polish Language Council, which thoroughly assessed the so-called. information strips issued in the news in 2016 and 2017? Does the Minister know the summary of this report and the information of the board that indicated that the stripes use unethical language treatments such as labelling, stigmatization, stereotyping? Is the Minister also aware of this thesis in the Council's report that the stripes were designed to influence the opinion of the recipient of the communication rather than to provide him with an objective notification of the event? Do you approve of such action, Prime Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u456	Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution as proposed by the Committee on Culture and Media. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in full from print No 3513, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. For - 228, against - 174, holding down 2. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the act on tax on goods and services and the Tax Order Act (print No. 3255) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. Questions will be asked by Genowef Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u457	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask you if anything has changed in this harmful project that is harmful to farmers, fruit collectors and processors. A few months ago thanks to the intervention of President Kaczyński - I wanted to thank him from this place - the vote was stopped. Has anything changed? Let me just remind you that this bill is extremely harmful. [[Applause]] It is reduced to 5% of VAT on so-called VAT. junk food, i.e. for chips, sweets, waffles, etc., for tropical fruit and citrus fruits, coconuts, pistachios, and increases from 5% to 23% VAT on fruit and vegetable drinks from our Polish products. Has anything changed? I would like to ask Mr Ardanowski today if he knows about these changes, about this revolution in VAT rates [[♪ The bell ♪]] and whether this is the way it's supposed to be during the fruit harvest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u458	Thank you, Member. Mr Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Where's President Kaczyński?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you whether the Minister of Finance has already learned that this bill and what you said, namely the increase in VAT from 5 to 23%, will result in 150 000. t fruit will not be concentrated that our Polish farmers, whom the country cares about, will not be able to sell 150 thousand. t fruit. Mr. Kaczyński isn't here, so he's probably not gonna be able to stop it. Ladies and gentlemen, does the Minister of Finance know that this bill murders Polish Sadition? [[Applause]] Does he also know that we will now drink more coca-cola, mineral water and other carbonated drinks that are artificially sweetened and our Polish apples will not be bought and rot in our orchards? Are you... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Minister! Just listen, all you have to do is listen. I'm leaving information on what's gonna happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I do not advise you to laugh because the health of these drinks is very important. If the Minister drinks 1 l of soda, it'll be better than having 1 l of coca-cola. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u460	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! I was hoping that after this bill was recently removed from the agenda, there was some reflection that maybe enough of this Ministry Poland, enough poisoning of Polish children, enough of this garbage food and in cafeterias, and in shops, and you will improve this matrix. But it turns out nothing's changed. The Ministry of Health will continue to spend money on prevention so that children do not eat junk food and the Ministry of Finance will reduce VAT on junk food. I've had a dozen meetings with farmers lately, with sadists. They're terrified of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's reject this law at first reading, give Polish agriculture a chance. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u462	Thank you very much. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a touching concern on the part of our opposition, but I would like to assure you that, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will make an amendment that will restore VAT on juices, and it will be at the level at which it is at present. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u464	Thank you very much. Well, in that case, please... Prime Minister or Minister? Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin asks for the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we have heard here a very interesting and informative spectacle from the opposition, which suddenly became interested in the fate of Polish sadists. [[More serious.]] Better late than never. [[Voice from the room: Insolence.]] Indeed, we appreciate it. We appreciate it very much. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] However, I would like to inform you that you do not have a chance to outrun us in the care of Polish sadists. As Mr Schreiber has just said, the Members of the Law and Justice will report an amendment... [[It's not a cabaret.]] ...which will cause all fruit drinks produced from Polish fruit to be subject to a lower VAT rate. [[Voice from the room: Whose project is this?]] Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, we will deal with this so that we can actually provide good Polish sadists. [[Touchdown, applause]] the conditions for them to grow their crops. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What does the government say?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u466	Thank you, Prime Minister. We're going to vote because the Minister isn't... We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 3255, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. For - 173, against - 228, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 3541, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. For - 145, against - 255, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 08 hours 20 min 12]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: amending certain laws with a view to reducing payment congestion, as well as amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 3577 and 3575 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda he listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and certain other laws (prints No 3542 and 3570). I ask Mr Antoni Duda to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and some other laws, print No 3542. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 18 June 2019 the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for first reading. At this point, I'm going to say a few words about the procedated bill. The main purpose of the Act is to adapt Polish legislation to the obligations arising from Regulation No 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council on unjustified geo-blocking and other forms of discrimination against customers on grounds of nationality, residence or place of business in the internal market. This regulation is one of the documents of the European Commission's e-commerce package, published on 25 May 2016 in the framework of the initiatives announced in the Digital Single Market Strategy and the Single Market Strategy for goods and services. The draft law also provides for changes in the internal structure of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. It also introduces provisions allowing the President of the Office to have access to tax confidentiality in proceedings under the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and the Act against unfair exploitation of contractual advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products and to banking secrecy in the case of the second of these laws. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 2 July 2019, requests the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u468	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will be spoken by Mr Antoni Duda. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club with regard to the government draft law amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and certain other laws, print No 3542. The draft law amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and certain other laws aims, first, to bring national law into line with the provisions of Regulation No 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council on unjustified geo-blocking and other forms of discrimination against customers on grounds of nationality, residence or place of business in the internal market. The purpose of the geoblocking Regulation is to ensure that consumers, regardless of their nationality or place of residence or establishment in the European Union, better access to goods and services in the single market by preventing direct and indirect discrimination in cross-border e-commerce, when purchasing online as well as when travelling to other Member States for the purpose of acquiring goods or using services. The aim of this regulation is also to enable entrepreneurs to expand their business to new markets and to be interested in their offer of new customers. Secondly, it is about enabling the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection to be more flexible in relation to the state of the current internal structure of the office, in particular with regard to delegations. Currently, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection is composed of a headquarters in Warsaw, laboratories supervised by the President of the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection and nine delegations with legally defined offices. The draft amendments aim to introduce greater flexibility in the creation and assignment of tasks by the President of the Office to off-road units, i.e. Delegations. The project involves regulating the tasks of the UOKiK delegations in the statutes issued by a regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers. Thirdly, the aim is to improve the effectiveness of detecting infringements of the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection by broadening the access of the President of the Office to legally protected secrets, such as fiscal secrecy in proceedings under the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and the Act against unfair exploitation of contractual advantages in trade in agricultural and food products, as well as banking secrecy in the case of the latter. Fourthly, it is about adapting the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Competition and Consumers and the Act on the Prevention of Unfair Use of Contractual Advantages in Trade in Agricultural and Food Products to the current legal situation. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I propose an amendment to the contested law giving a new wording to point 7 in Article. 1 and I recommend to the High Sejm that the Act on the amendment of the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and some other laws be adopted, print No 3542, together with the proposed amendment. I'll allow myself to put the amendment on your marshal's hands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u470	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - The Civic Coalition will present the position to Mrs Magdalena Ewa Marek. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u471	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Civic Coalition Platform club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and some other laws, print No 3542. The main reason for the amendment is the alignment of national provisions with Regulation 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council on unjustified geo-blocking and other forms of discrimination against customers on grounds of nationality, residence and place of business in the internal European market, which entered into force on 3 December 2018. These are important provisions from the point of view of a very dynamic, evolving and changing digital market. Dry data can show that over the last 4 years the number of Internet users who have sought cross-border access to content that is on the Internet has almost doubled. In 2015, it was an interest rate of 8%, 4 years later, i.e. in 2019, it was 15% . Given that these indicators are the highest among young people - up to 28% is in the age group of 15 and 24 years - it shows that the dynamics will grow from year to year. The prohibition of unjustified discrimination in online sales on grounds of nationality, place of residence or place of business is an embodiment of European values of equality between citizens of all Member States. This law is also important in order to encourage Internet users to reach out to content from a legal source. It is therefore necessary to adapt the Polish provisions to the provisions of the Regulation. It is precisely about imposing an obligation on the Member State to comply with the provisions of the EU Regulation, but also to equip it with instruments and the possibility of helping businesses and consumers in the event of a dispute. The President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection will be equipped with such instruments as amended by the Act, but also with common courts. The elimination of geo-blocking is another important and beneficial step for consumers and businesses to regulate the digital market following the Payment Services Directive, cross-border rules on services, parcel delivery and strengthening consumer protection for online purchases. The amendment also involves changes in the structure of the OKAiK itself: first of all, the delegation in Warsaw is liquidated, and duties will be taken over by the headquarters and by delegations in the field. The change is a similar application to similar institutions, such as the Electronic Communications Office or the Civil Aviation Authority. The Act will remove the provisions that refer to the seat or the operating principle of the OOKiK so that these issues are regulated by the statute or by the regulations of the work. Moreover, according to the amendment, each voivodship will have a representative in the National Council of Consumer Ombudsmans. There are now eight of them, this number will be increased to sixteen, so that each voivodeship will have its representative, it will not increase budget costs. The law provides for three months to be adapted. It should also be mentioned that the President of the UOKiK will be given additional authority - he will have access to the tax secrets of the Change of the agenda. In proceedings under the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and the Act against unfair exploitation of contractual advantages in the marketing of agricultural products, the Marshal will gain access to banking secrecy. So in the course of the proceedings, which will be conducted by the President of the UOKiK, he will have access to these two secrets. It hasn't happened so far. The changes mentioned in the UOKiK structure relate to the four-month period of vacathio legis, the period of implementation, and all other changes will enter into force 14 days after the announcement. In view of the above, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition supports the government's proposal to amend the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u472	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Parda made a statement on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 in writing. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak also made a statement on behalf of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats in writing. In writing, Ms Margaret Zwierzan's statement from the Free and Solidarnia Poselski Circle was received. One Member joined the questions. I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. The list of MEPs has therefore been exhausted. On behalf of the government, is anyone speaking? No. Will Mr Antoni Duda speak? No. Thank you very much. I therefore close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u473	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club PSL-UED, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection. The project envisages the designation of authorities responsible for the enforcement of Regulation (EU) 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council on unjustified geo-blocking and other forms of discrimination against customers on grounds of nationality, residence or place of business in the internal market. The provisions of the EU Regulation are intended to prevent discrimination against consumers wishing to buy products or services in another European Union country - either directly or via the Internet. It's about geo-blocking, so-called. geoblocking. Transport, financial and audiovisual services will be excluded from the provisions of the Regulation. The purpose of the Regulation is to ensure better access to goods and services in the single market, regardless of their nationality or place of residence or business in the European Union. The means of achieving this objective shall be to prevent direct and indirect discrimination in cross-border e-commerce (on-line purchases) and when travelling to other Member States for the purpose of acquiring goods or using services. The draft law serves to apply the provisions of the Regulation by designating competent authorities to enforce its provisions. The PSL-UED Club will present its position in the voting block.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Large international companies often introduce artificial segmentation of the market in the European Union along its internal borders. They often hinder the free movement of goods and services, thereby restricting customers' rights and preventing them from using a richer offer and optimal conditions. Such discriminatory practices significantly contribute to a relatively low level of cross-border transactions in the Union, including in the e-commerce sector, preventing the full potential of the internal market from being exploited. The EU regulation introduced by that law should limit discrimination on grounds of nationality, place of residence or place of business of customers, including unjustified geo-blocking, in cross-border transactions between traders and customers concerning the sale of goods and services in the Union. The second important department in the Act is the change of the internal structure of the UOKiK. There is a legitimate concern that the primary objective is not to organize the structure, but to replace the staff with their own. We therefore propose that the annual activity reports include analytical factors to compare the changes made and their real effectiveness. Another important aspect of the law is to allow the UOKiK to access legally protected secrets such as fiscal secrecy and banking secrecy. Despite some concerns about the extension of competences, we hope that direct access to relevant data will speed up the public's response and eliminate unauthorised practices affecting the interests of consumers and businesses.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u475	Mr. President! As it seems, an essential role in the real possibility of the e-commerce market is the availability of efficient postal services, courier services or, more broadly, transport services. How does the proposed project secure these issues so that it does not turn out that Polish entrepreneurs can freely operate on the Community market, but because of other restrictions their goods will not be able to reach a foreign customer within a reasonable time as part of a service provided by a Polish shipping, mail or courier company?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and certain other laws. The aim of the project is to implement a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2018/302 in the Polish legal order, which is part of the e-commerce package. This amendment introduces a number of changes in the area of functioning of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, including changes concerning the internal structure of the UOKiK, supplementing the Director's catalogue of tasks, increasing his powers as regards the election of Vice-Presidents of the Office and the resignation of the competition for this position. In addition, the contested regulations aim to give the President of the OKiK access to banking secrecy and fiscal secrecy for the purposes of the proceedings. The proposed changes by increasing the flexibility of the Office's operation, enabling its structure to adapt to tasks, creation and assignment of tasks by the President of the OKIK individual OKI units in my opinion will positively affect its effectiveness. In addition, the solutions contained in the project aim to ensure the judicial stability of the President of the OMC and the possibility of shaping long-term competition and consumer policy. It is also important that the project provides for the appointment of the Contact Point for the President of the OMC. ADR/ODR (manager for out-of-court consumer dispute resolution and online consumer dispute resolution). This solution will increase consumer protection in the global market and the proper respect for its rights. Consumers will be among others. may have been informed of their rights and possible action in cases of breaches of the provisions on the prohibition of unjustified geographical blocking. I am convinced that these solutions will improve general access to goods and services within the European Union, regardless of the place of residence, nationality or place of business and whether they are bought electronically or on travel. About Free and Solidarni supports the bill presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u477	During the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, so I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws (prints No 3481 and 3553). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u478	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At its meeting on 12 June this year, the Public Finance Commission discussed the government bill on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws, print No 3481. During the committee meeting, the various articles and amendments were examined in detail and the opinions of the Legislative Bureau and the social side were heard. Amendments were tabled during the meeting. All amendments were accepted by the High Committee. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt this bill together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u479	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Szymańska will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u480	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As the rapporteur of the committee has already presented, at the June meeting, the Committee on Public Finance discussed the government draft law amending the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws, print No 3481. There is no doubt that the purpose of amending the Act is to strengthen public oversight of the activities of auditors and audit firms in Poland, because supervision in the current formula did not function properly in all aspects. Events related to the activities of GetBack and the supervisory actions undertaken against that entity of public interest have highlighted the shortcomings of the current public oversight system over the quality of certification services provided by statutory auditors and audit firms, in particular in relation to capital market transactions. Currently, supervision of the quality of services provided by statutory auditors and audit firms in units of public interest is exercised by the Audit Supervisory Board, which does not have sufficient tools to control the quality of services provided by audit firms related to capital market transactions, as a significant proportion of the supervisory tasks have been delegated to the Polish Chamber of Auditors, which carries out quality checks on statutory audits of entities other than units of public interest, as well as carrying out investigations and sanctions in respect of them through disciplinary action and the National Disciplinary Court. The draft law presented by the government in place of the Audit Supervisory Committee is set up by a separate body - the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency, which will be a state-owned legal entity forming part of the public finance sector, designated as the competent public authority supervising the audit. It will be equipped with new supervisory, investigative and sanctioning tools for statutory auditor services subject to professional standards performed both in public interest entities and non-public interest entities. Therefore, the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency will carry out public supervision over the entire audit in Poland. The Polish Chamber of Auditors will carry out tasks within the scope of supervision to a limited extent. It will continue to have competence to establish national standards for the pursuit of the profession, national standards for quality control and the ethics of statutory auditors, as well as to control the compliance of statutory auditors with the obligations of compulsory vocational training and carry out the tasks relating to the approval and registration of auditors. It will also conduct disciplinary proceedings for offences other than those incurred in the performance of certification services and related services carried out in accordance with national standards for the pursuit of the profession by statutory auditors. The powers of the Financial Supervision Commission will remain unchanged. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of a draft law submitted by the government amending the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and certain other laws, print No 3481. At the same time, on behalf of the club, I propose four amendments harmonising and clarifying certain provisions of the Act. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the Government's draft Print Act No 3481. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u481	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - The Civic Coalition will present the position to Mrs Izabel Leszczyn. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u482	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The regulations we are discussing are designed to strengthen the integrity, independence, objectivity, accountability, credibility of auditors and audit firms. The aim is to increase the level of consumer and investor protection as well as the level of financial stability of the market. That's what we all agree on. But it is hard to resist the impression that the changes made by the government in this law do not always serve this purpose. First of all, audit firms in Poland as a result of your changes will be in a worse situation than audit firms outside Poland, which simply do not have the requirements introduced by this law. And above all, we are asking for Polish medium and small audit firms, because it is known that so-called. The big four can handle it. What kind of excess regulation am I talking about? First of all, we are talking about the requirement to have, i.e. de facto translate the entire documentation into Polish, which will significantly increase the costs of research and other services. And it will again be painful especially for smaller companies, which e.g. they study Polish companies investing abroad, because they will have to obtain audit documentation from auditors examining their foreign companies, and this documentation in other countries is drawn up in English. It seems that the introduction of a translation obligation for checking selected pieces of documentation would be quite sufficient. Another issue is the revision of the supervisory fee base to cover all certification and related services. This will cause a huge increase in costs. Let us remember that they will always be transferred to other companies, and in fact - to the final customer. You're introducing a 4% fee. Pretty much all of the company's revenue, which is basically you're putting in some kind of turnover tax. This does not, of course, improve the competitiveness of Polish audit firms vis-à-vis foreign companies. There are two other issues that we are concerned about. First of all, you provide for the principle that auditors will control the staff of the new institution - yours. That's good, I'm in favour of the state audit of auditors, but why can the audit qualifications, according to your project, be lower than the audit qualifications? I think that's why you're being made to pay more people in it so that these people have the highest possible qualifications to attract the best professionals. I hope that you are not setting up a new institution to hire relatives, rabbit friends, to announce some common movement and hire people who are not qualified, because this will certainly not ensure the safety of consumers or investors, on the contrary. The second point is so fundamental, fundamental. You don't like any local authorities at all: either territorial or professional. You limit the competences of these local authorities in every possible place and area. It's the same here. You are lowering the competences of the professional self-government. You're setting up another state legal person, and we have bad experiences here. The transformation of the Financial Supervision Commission into a state-owned legal person resulted in a number of abuses, such as renting out the area for horrendous amounts, e.g. 16 million, and today we have a media report that here are the employees of the Financial Supervision Authority at the alcohol and integration event having a lot of fun for public money, spending 16,000 on training, and 55,000 on accommodation and board. We hope that the increasing costs of supervision of auditors will not be consumed by newly created employees That's how you do it. I would like to ask the Minister to consider whether these costs must increase so much. And one more thing: Can we not extend the deadline for adjusting audit firms' activities to the new regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u483	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski made a written statement on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. Similarly, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska made a written statement on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. No one signed up for the question. The list of Members has been exhausted. I therefore close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u484	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 during the second reading of the government bill amending the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws. Referring to the first reading of hope and bearing in mind the results of our work in committee, i.e. In our view, it is difficult for us to respond positively to the proposed changes to take into account rational requests for harmonisation (at the same time improving activities) of supervision of the financial market (or, more broadly, of all market operators and subject to supervision). According to the Kukiz15 club, the division or duplication of competences is contrary to the concept of a cheap and effective state, which we represent invariably. For this reason, we cannot support this project at the second reading stage, while the final decision of the Kukiz Club15 on this project will be expressed in the voting block.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u485	Minister! Have you considered introducing an IT system to verify the next quality of the work of statutory auditors and audit firms on the basis of objective data in the course of preliminary analyses carried out in the Ministry of Finance? Today's possibilities offered by IT tools allow for extremely complex analyses according to automated, complex algorithms, also supported so-called. Artificial intelligence. Using such tools, it would be possible to seal the system significantly without radically increasing the cost of its operation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL - UED Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and on public oversight and on certain other laws, prints No 3481 and 3553. The Public Finance Commission, after examining the provisions of the draft law at the request of Parliament's legislators, has introduced a number of editorial and legislative amendments and submit the draft for adoption. Recalling the essential standardizations of the project, the following should be mentioned: - the appointment of a new State-owned legal entity supervised by the Minister of Finance under the name of the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency, which receives supervisory powers in relation to the activities of auditors and audit firms in Poland, - restricting the powers of the Polish Chamber of Auditors in the field of audit firms - both the registration of companies and public oversight, - increase of fees for audit services and entry in the register. The social side, as well as the NIK, made proposals for substantive changes, but they were not taken into account. Members of the Committee on Public Finance expressed concerns about the short time (until 2020) to adapt audit firms, ensure the employment of competent persons and high supervisory costs. The PSL - ED Membership Club shares these concerns. Furthermore, the proposed changes demonstrate the centralisation of power, and these are not isolated cases of the establishment of an extensive central administration by the government. Costs and charges will theoretically belong to audit firms, but it is not hard to imagine that in practice they will be paid by controlled institutions, so once again entrepreneurs and employers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u487	During the second reading, amendments were tabled to the proposed amendment act, and I therefore propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a two-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 39 hours 20 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on governmental drafts of laws amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws (Prints Nos 3499, 3500 and 3557). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u488	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to submit a report to the Committee on Public Finance from print No. 3557 on the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws, prints No. 3499 and 3500. The Sejm at its 82nd meeting on 13 June 2019, as provided for in Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he sent the above draft to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the draft laws at its meeting on 27 June 2019, asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law. I would like to point out that three amendments were tabled to print No 3499, which were accepted by the committee, and six amendments were tabled to print No 3500, which were also approved by the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u489	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to government draft laws amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws, print Nos 3499 and 3500. During the first reading of both projects, the scope of amendments to the VAT Act aimed at sealing the VAT system and changes in the Tax Order related to the inclusion of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office in the catalogue of entities to which information covered by tax confidentiality may be made available. At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on 27 June this year. two government projects were considered, discussing in detail the various articles and changes. At the committee meeting, three amendments to Draft Printing Act No 3499 and six amendments to Draft Printing Act No 3500 were tabled. Amendment 1 introduced the new wording of point 7 in Article. 4. Amendment 2 allows the list of entities referred to in Article to be made available in the Public Information Bulletin. 96b. 1 Act on the tax on goods and services in a form which allows automatic verification of whether the accounts of the taxable person's counterparties are included in that list. 3. Amendment to Draft Print Act No 3499 aimed at avoiding double costs for taxable persons to implement changes in the registration of sales by means of registering registers. Six amendments were tabled to the second draft law from print no. 3500. Amendment 1 aims to repeal the provision requiring the clearing house to provide the head of the National Tax Administration with information on the total amount of the charges. Amendment 2 is related to the establishment of the State Protection Service, which replaced the Government Protection Office. 3. The amendment consists in giving a new wording to lithium. b in point 6 of Article. 2 projects. 4. The amendment concerns Article. Paragraph 2 (10) and divides the existing content into two paragraphs. In the 5th amendment, after the article. The following Article shall be inserted: 3a. In Amendment 6, after the article. 6. the following Article shall be inserted: 6a. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill in the votes. At the same time, I am proposing to the Marshal further amendments to this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u491	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint report in part refers to the introduced Central Register of Taxation Data. This is a very clear departure from the original idea of creating the so-called. a central invoice register, a solution for which it was announced that it would be introduced much, much earlier. Already at the beginning of 2016, we heard representatives of the Ministry of Finance say when this solution will be implemented. Dates were falling, it was claimed that this was a matter of a year, 1.5 years, so this solution should be introduced already in 2017. There were also specific sums rained, it was said how this solution could seal the tax system in Poland. There were payments between PLN 10 and 36 billion. Of course, this upper limit is probably much exaggerated - probably as much as the entire tax gap at the moment - but such declarations by the representative of the Ministry of Finance, the Deputy Minister of Finance fell. This solution, which is far from the original assumption of the creation of a central invoice register, is called the Central Register of Taxation Data. It's a completely different solution. The data will not be transmitted in real time, and this was the idea of a central invoice register. We'll have some sort of - it's even been named - an invoicing museum. However, it is undoubtedly a means of sealing the tax system, and in our view it deserves - despite the clear departure from the original assumptions - to support it. I would just like to see such a small reflection here, because the state, your representatives, at least on the committee of inquiry, accuse the previous government teams of introducing a solution too late, because the implementation of such a solution lasted a year or a half, and it was in the interest of the VAT mafia. So using not ours, but your rhetoric, one can come to the same conclusion. If any solution is sealing, it could have been introduced much, much earlier than you introduce it. This, too, is not in the interest of public finances and of the state budget, but, as you have defined it, in the interests of those who are unfairly engaged in economic activity or are operating in a broadly understood grey area. This is not my rhetoric, this is not the rhetoric of my political environment, but you are talking and your media are talking about the alleged looting of PLN 250 billion. If you predicted that your Deputy Minister of Finance Skiba from the Seymary said that this solution, which you do not implement literally as it was originally intended, could give the state budget between PLN 10 billion and PLN 36 billion per year, then simply counting the delays by the end of 2019 and really not introducing this original solution is over PLN 100 billion. Using your rhetoric, we are dealing with the looting of over PLN 100 billion. But as I said, this is a solution that goes against, seals the tax system and, of course, deserves support. And I'm only saying this because maybe some autoreflexion in your political camp will turn on that this rhetoric you're using today can be used against the state in the future. Thank you very much. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition will support the presentation in a version that has been supported by the Public Finance Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u493	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u494	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the draft laws on amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. Referring to my speech on the draft laws in question at first reading, I would remind you that any efforts to make life easier for taxpayers should be positively assessed by reducing taxes or by reducing the amount of formalities that the taxpayer is required to complete. While this draft law does not imply a reduction in tax burden, the proposed changes, which in fact lead to a reduction in the formal legal burden, deserve support, the Kukiz Club15 is in favour of further proceding this project. On the other hand, it should be noted that the project currently consists of two seym prints, Nos 3499 and 3500, which, as I emphasized at first reading, is the inflation of the law. However, given the consensus that we have achieved during the work of the Committee on Public Finance, at this stage we are inclined to support this bill and we are in favour of further proceding it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u495	I ask for information on whether the Ministry, when diagnosing issues related to the classification of lubricating oils, has expert expertise in the construction and operation of combustion units, which would confirm the lack of significant differences in the operation of engines and transmissions lubricated by different types of lubricating oils. I would also like to ask for information as to whether similar expertise shows that there are no significant differences in the operation of diesel power systems for diesel or lubricating oil engines. If such expertise exists, please send it to me in writing or by electronic means. On the other hand, if there is no such expertise, I ask very much for their commission, because from the information I have received from professional motorists, it appears that the arguments put forward in the explanatory memorandum appear to be far from reality. Please also indicate, how much will the service costs of all motor vehicles in Poland be higher in total after the loading of motor and transmission lubricating oils with excise duty? The vast majority of these vehicles require the use of the so-called. synthetic oils with precise parameters that go far beyond the basic parameters of density and viscosity.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL - UED Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on two government drafts of laws with the same title: on the amendment of the Act on VAT on goods and services and on certain other laws, prints Nos 3499, 3500 and 3557. Following the analysis of two VAT projects, the Committee on Public Finance has made a great deal of changes of different nature and proposes that the High House adopt one combined print project No 3557. The most important changes contained in the single project concern, among others.: - the abolition of individual redundancies for certain taxable persons, - clarification of VAT clearance in the trading of petroleum products, - harmonisation of the taxation of gambling, - facilitating the settlement of VAT on imports of goods, - restrictions on the elements of the RR VAT invoice, - to create the possibility to trade documents in electronic form. The project also introduces a new VAT JPK file which is an electronic document covering the VAT declaration and register. The proposed draft amendment to the law on value added tax after the merger of two different projects and the introduction of many changes raises serious doubts as to whether it will be a well-prepared law. However, due to the fact that the project uses electronics and to a certain extent reduces bureaucracy, it deserves support.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u497	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the governmental draft law amending certain laws to reduce payment congestion (prints 3475 and 3577). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee. There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: There is no Member, we have to wait.]] We're waiting. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 50 hours 20 min 52]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 16 on the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the draft law amending certain laws to reduce payment congestion, namely prints 3475 and 3577. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to submit a report to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, from print No. 3577, on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce payment congestion, from print No. 3475. The Sejm at its 82nd meeting on 12 June 2019, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. The Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development after considering this draft law at its meetings on 27 June and 3 July 2019 invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Two amendments were tabled to the above draft law, which were approved by the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u499	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Ewa Malik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u500	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to limit payment congestion, Seym printing No 3475 and 3577. The aim of the project is to introduce solutions for mobilising commercial debtors - both public entities and traders - to pay within a fixed period of time, and to effectively discourage them from unduly extending their payment deadlines. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law was examined in the joint committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, at two meetings: on 27 June and 3 July this year. As a result of the work of the Joint Committees, a report was drawn up which contained two very important substantive amendments tabled by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The other amendments were editorial and there were a lot of them. They were all accepted by the Members of the Joint Committee, by a committee majority. I would like to say that the first of the substantive amendments I was talking about concerning the article. 10, was more specific. The second amendment, on the other hand, to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. consisted in deleting the reimbursement: to revenue, revenue generated and losses incurred due to the non-disputed scope of application of this provision on the basis of the proposed Article. 3 laws. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice Club supports the report presented by the joint committees on the government draft law on seym prints No 3475 and 3577. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u501	Thank you very much, Member. Now Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club. [[There was still time.]] Right. The same was said by the Member at the beginning and at the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u502	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! This bill concerning the reduction of payment congestion is detrimental to the Polish economy and Polish entrepreneurs. According to the predictions I presented at first reading, behind a beautiful title expressing supposedly-good intentions - supposedly-good intentions - hide harmful to the economy the contents of the bill. For we have a title that concerns the limitation of payment congestion, and if we were done with it, we would all be happy. On the other hand, if we examine the proposed provisions of the Act, it will turn out that this is a restrictive act against Polish entrepreneurs, which will not eliminate payment congestion, but will only be burdensome and harmful to the activities of Polish entrepreneurs. From the first moment, Minister, I ask where we can find records in this project that objectively allow us to determine which of the entities in the payment congestion chain is the victim of this congestion, and which of the entities is the perpetrator, that is, the perpetrator in this payment congestion. Your answers, which each time indicate that the president of the UOKiK or, looking further, the UOKiK officials will be honest and fair in this matter, neither me nor any of my colleagues at the club will convince you. Rather, we would draw attention to the fact that PiS has been unable to fill public positions with people who are honest and fair for four years. The solutions contained in this project are radically different from what, first of all, the Ministry started working on payment congestion, but above all from the standards expressed in similar laws in the European Union and Scandinavian countries. There, the essence of the act on reducing payment congestion is the rules that really help entrepreneurs unblock these payment congestions, and in this project it is difficult to find any rules that talk about helping entrepreneurs. We are still talking about mechanisms that are restrictive, which impose penalties on entrepreneurs. It's supposed to look like businessmen are supposed to be afraid of it because there's gonna be penalties. And I have already said that the entrepreneur will not know whether the official will treat him as the victim of a payment embolism or as the one who caused the payment embolism. By the way, while we are here with the officials, Minister, I would like to say that you have tried very hard to avoid answering the question about the cost of implementing this law and the increase in administration. I managed to find 110 new jobs at the UOKiK, 121 thousand. PLN per job next year, over 130 thousand. zł next year. Who in the UOKiK is making so much money right now? Who makes more than 10,000. A month at the UOKiK? What kind of supergroup of 110 new officials will go from the PiS nomination to the UOKiK and make so much money? Other issues are also important. Well, we're dealing -- as it's ugly as it is -- with legislative diarrhea, because in addition to this law, laws are being processed in parallel, which are intertwined with what we're talking about. One of the reasons is the time we are debating this bill. But in parallel is the Act on the UOKiK and there is also the Act on the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure. In a relationship, for example. with this last law, the costs of legal proceedings will increase dramatically. As the costs of legal proceedings increase, entrepreneurs will find it difficult to claim, because it will be very expensive, their debts. ♪ I've got time ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's slowly passing...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u503	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u504	...so, Mr. Marshal, if you'd allow me...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u505	Mr Paweł Grabowski made his statement in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u506	...I wanted on behalf of the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u507	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak is not here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u508	...to make amendments that soothe... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u509	The question is asked by Gabriela Masłowska, a club called Law and Justice. You're welcome. Are you an MP? There is no Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u510	You're welcome... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u511	Thank you very much. There is no Member, so there is no one to answer. The discussion is closed. For the third reading... Oh, the corrections are, I'm sorry. Since during the second time... [[And the Minister is.]] Yeah, but there were no questions. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But you don't have an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u512	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the draft law so-called. an anti-embolic event. Referring to my speech at the first reading of this bill and bearing in mind the effect of the committee's work, I state that the draft law in question is well-founded and therefore worthy of support. The imposition of unfair counterparties, while granting preference to those who have been victims of unfair competitors, seems fully justified. Of course, the devil is in the details and it will be necessary to look closely at how the legislation will work in practice, but at this point the Kukiz Club is in favour of further proceding this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u513	Is the fact that our banking system under PiS is very stable, and the fact that we have managed to keep Polish property in a bank such as PKO BP or to recolonise Pekao SA gives us a better chance of closing payment congestion in Polish small and medium-sized enterprises? Polish banks have significant overliquidity - they have a lot of liquid assets in their balance sheets. Would it be possible, in cooperation with KNF, to create mechanisms that would allow the use of part of the bank's liquidity surplus to support companies that have problems with payment congestion? What conditions would have to be met in order for banks to engage in the elimination of payment congestion?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u514	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Thank you very much. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws (prints No 3495 and 3575). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee. Where is the Member? [[And is there a representative of the Ministry?]] About this? [[It's a government project.]] Exactly. There it is. There isn't. However, we have gained some momentum. [[Exactly, Mr. Marshal, that's right, but I don't think so.]] We're in a bit of a hurry, but... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 minutes 04 hours 21 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee. [[Is there a minister? Is the minister here?]] Yes. They're here. [[Voice from the room: There is no minister.]] They're here, [[Mr. Marshal, we have questions...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: These are finance ministers.]] They'll come before... [[Voice from the hall: But they should be.]] You haven't asked a question yet, and you're already worried about the answer. [[Well, yeah, I'm worried, 'cause they should be to the whole point.]] Madam, we have been waiting for you for 15 minutes. [[I didn't expect that, marshal.]] You always have to be on standby. You're welcome very soon. [[This is an important bill, Marshal.]] Sure, but everyone knows what the rapporteur says. [[But the minister is?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the joint committees: the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on a draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. The draft is contained in print No 3495 and the report of the joint committees is published in print No 3575. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been a number of problems in the field of waste management, especially in recent years, which have plagued all stakeholders, i.e. owners of real estate, who have to fulfil their duties, municipalities that carry out waste collection and disposal, companies in the industry. There weren't any of them. there was no clear incentive for selective collection of municipal waste, there were no significant differences in the rates of fees for segregated and non-segregated waste. We were faced with a situation such as the lack of incentives that would stimulate landowners to have home composters, due to the lack of possibility of reducing the fees for residents who process their own biodegradable waste fractions. Nor was there such clarity in view of the divergent case law of the administrative courts concerning the applicability of more than one criterion which would differentiate the rates of charges in municipalities and inter-communal associations. We have certainly had too little control of local government units over the municipal waste management system, including the supervision of entities that receive waste. It can be said without a doubt that we have been dealing with a monopolistic market for the collection of municipal waste. I have heard from my wójtów such information that after organizing the tender the price in a small, several thousand-dollar municipality increased by a million compared to last year's price and they are afraid to make another tender because one monopolist threatens to raise the price by another million. This was undoubtedly a very cumbersome situation that required change. It is also a very bad practice for waste managers to dump waste in places not intended for this purpose. It was equally important to seal the recycling levy system for all plastic bags. In 2018, I remind you, the recycling charge was imposed on light shopping bags, up to 50 Sm. This reduced the release of these bags, but at the same time some sellers replaced these thin plastic bags with thicker ones, avoiding the need for recycling charges. As a result, we had a situation that actually the amount of bags used was not significantly reduced. Also an important problem that this law solves is the lack of sanctions for not registering an imported car and not registering an end-of-life vehicle. This change is the result of formal allegations by the European Commission concerning the failure to transpose Directive 2000/53/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 September 2000 on end-of-life vehicles. The European Commission considered that the Republic of Poland did not ensure the effective application of the Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 and Article 2 Article 6 (6) (a) 1 Directive 2000/53/EC. In connection with the work at the Ministry of Infrastructure on solving the problem of the implementation of this directive, which was prolonged, this was included in the draft law discussed here, in Article. 4, so that at least the most urgent issues, which are the subject of the reasoned opinion of the European Commission, find a solution. High Izbo! There isn't much time to discuss such a comprehensive and multifaceted bill. In short, I will tell you what solutions have been put in place. That's, among other things.: making the possibility of using these criteria which differentiate the rates of charges in municipalities and inter-communal unions more flexible; introducing the possibility of exempting from part of the municipal waste management fee property owners who have home composters and compost biodegradable waste; clarifying in the provisions of the Act the time for reporting corrections and setting the deadline for the final report by the recipient of municipal waste to the municipality, by the municipality to the marshal's office, and by the Marshal's office to the Minister of the Environment, because this is how the waste management system works. There is also the addition of a provision for a 3-year period of non-entry into the register of traders who have been deleted from the register of regulated activities. Sanctions shall also be imposed for the submission of false declarations of compliance with the conditions for carrying out activities in this field by operators receiving municipal waste from owners at the time of application for entry in the register. High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6, which contains changes, a total of 36 amendments to the Waste Act of 14 December 2012, is introduced a number of changes, e.g. rules have been introduced that enable the competent environmental authorities to dispose of the waste without delay because of the risk to human life or health and introduce an obligation to reimburse the waste holder. A new possibility is introduced, i.e. funding it from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in such a way as to increase the activity of environmental authorities in response to crises, i.e. those related to the need to dispose of waste and then enforce this levy in accordance with the principle: the polluter pays. Another issue is the incentive for environmental authorities to use all available legal administrative instruments to enforce environmental legislation, in particular waste management. Let me remind you that a new chapter is being introduced: waste disposal. Amendments to Article 7 to 13. 6 which relate to amendments to the Waste Act, all of these provisions introduce. Such a very important provision, I think, is the decisive elimination of the obligation to regionalise waste management, bio-waste, non-segregated waste, mixed waste, and residues from sorting and mechanical-biological treatment of municipal waste for storage. This is intended to enable the transfer of these waste to installations located throughout the country, i.e. to reduce the monopolization of the waste market that I mentioned at the beginning. I don't know. I still have 6.5 minutes. [[Minus the 15 you're late for.]] I think that the honourable Member should deal with the substantive discussion on this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u516	Madam President, please don't get into the discussion, just get to the point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u517	I'm continuing, Mr. Marshal, as I understand it. These rules also introduce the responsibility of the manufacturer for hazardous waste in the case of waste management until they are recovered or disposed of, so that there is no simply carousel or domino, or company, and in the end there is no one to deal with this waste. There are also provisions that introduce a solution to ensure that, should the repeal or expiry of the waste management decision be annulled, a procedure for the disposal of the effects of the activities carried out is applied, as is the case with the withdrawal of the waste management decision, in order to reduce the problem of persistent waste which poses a risk to human health and life as well as to the environment. Penalties for waste management not in accordance with the waste management rules are tightened. Art. 7 in turn, the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act amends the recycling levy to cover all bags. So that this escape in bags of thicker plastic will no longer be able to take place. In turn, the article. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Ladies and gentlemen! The great emotions from both your Members and the social side have aroused a change in Article 8. 1, which concerned the management of waste from uninhabited immovable property. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we were in a lot of trouble because the controversy was really serious. I'm gonna explain this exactly because it's causing a very big social resonance. On the one hand, leaving the parts, i.e. A dozen or so percent of the market, which is non-inhabited, small and medium-sized enterprises, is in favour of municipalities because it favours the demonopolization of the market for the collection and management of municipal waste. If one company shuts down, there are others on the market who can take over these tasks. If it were so that small and medium-sized companies had nothing to live from, then there would simply be an even greater monopoly on the waste market. On the other hand, leaving property owners free to decide to join the municipal municipal waste management system imposes on the municipalities the burden of enforcing this obligation by the property owners, which, of course, involves a certain amount of force and resources they must involve. The representatives of local governments raised the issue of the risk of sealing the system. Finally, the 8th amendment leaves the decision to the owners. Amendments to the Article are deleted. 6c, it's the mouth. 3a-3c, which relate to the manner in which these declarations are to be made. High Izbo! My time is running out, so I'm just gonna say a few more words about the amendments that have been made at the last stage. A package of amendments has been introduced, five amendments aimed at simplifying the rules for building waste treatment facilities. To this end, it is specified in these provisions that the installations planned for construction should be included only in the list updated on an ongoing basis by the Marshal of the Voivodship and not, as so far, in the voivodship waste management plan. This list will be kept and supplemented by a marshal in the Public Information Bulletin. An amendment to the Cleanliness and Order Act was also introduced by adding new articles: Article. 35b and Article 35b 35c, which make it possible to introduce issues relating to the share of thermally transformed waste and waste resulting from the treatment of municipal waste in the country in relation to the total mass of waste generated in the proportion of 30%. I think it's already difficult to explain these issues in detail here. The aim is to move the current requirements from the national waste management plan and the regional waste management plans to the law. The municipal installation is also defined in Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 6th Waste Act. As I say, we waive the requirement to define waste management in the voivodship plan and replace it with only a reference to the list of installations referred to in Article. Article 38b (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1. High Izbo! I don't have much time to explain. I think that some things will also be outlined in the club debate, perhaps in the debate on amendments, because I expect some amendments that have been tabled at the stage of the subcommittee's work, the work in committee, to be tabled again. On behalf of the Joint Committees of Local Government and the Environment Committee, I propose that a draft law be adopted to amend the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws contained in the report of the Joint Committees. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u518	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Gosievski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u519	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the joint committee on the government draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws contained in print No 3575. The original printing is printing number 3495. The bill the government is proposing is aimed at, among others. providing incentives for selective collection of municipal waste and strengthening the control of municipal waste streams by municipalities. Many changes are being made to the project, which will improve the system. It is proposed, among others. the statutory obligation for municipalities to ensure the selective collection of municipal waste, comprising at least paper, metal, plastics, glass, packaging waste, multimaterial and biowaste. For the sake of clarity, an amendment has been introduced concerning information on municipal waste management systems which the municipality has posted on the website or in a customary manner. A provision is proposed to allow the construction, expansion, modernisation, maintenance and operation by the municipality or in conjunction with other municipalities of waste treatment facilities resulting from the treatment of municipal waste in accordance with the waste hierarchy and proximity principle if such installations are not present on the local market or if existing installations have insufficient capacity. The revision of the legislation in this respect will allow the municipality to control the entire waste stream. The draft law extends the basic list of waste accepted by the municipal waste collection points by among others. household waste from medical supplies, i.e. needles, syringes, textiles and clothing and hazardous waste. In accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 28 November 2013, the draft law details the issue relating to the maximum rate of charges for the collection of waste from immovable property on which residents do not reside. This process introduces the possibility of exempting property owners from part of the fee, who, as the rapporteur said, are using biowaste, which is municipal waste in composters. This proposal will provide an economic incentive for the use of home composters by property owners. The proposed higher non-segregation charge is mainly intended to encourage residents to properly collect municipal waste. The Act introduces the provision that the provisions on the coverage of other plastic bags with a recycling charge will enter into force on 1 September 2019, which will reduce the practice of replacing lightweight plastic bags with thicker bags, also made of plastic. A very important and expected change is the introduction of an obligation to provide information on the addresses of sites receiving waste from farmers or waste treatment plants. This is very important in the case of municipalities in the area where the agricultural holdings are located, due to the huge demand to dispose of typical waste arising on these farms, i.e. Waste foil, cord and tires. The proposed amendments will have a positive impact on the environment and on human health and life. The proposed changes will improve the system of municipal waste management and thus improve the cleanliness and order of municipalities, which is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports, in accordance with the committee's 3575 report, the government draft law amending the Cleanliness and Order Law in municipalities and some other laws, the original print No 3495. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u520	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Up to a dozen amendments, or perhaps 15 or 16, made as minority requests, I make nine club amendments. Dear Minister, Our approach to this project is best described by words: deep disappointment. In fact, after so many years of government, we would expect the resort to present something that we could call a waste package, where we would have strengthened, extended the principle: the polluter pays, where perhaps a recycling fund would appear, maybe a bailout system, e.g. for PET bottles, which we've been talking about lately, that we're here for other countries in debt. With regard to the objectives we have reasonable doubts as to whether they are available in real life at all. We have a system in place in which the municipality owns municipal waste, but in fact whether it reaches the assumed level or reaches the high limits of the planned recycling will depend on the paper that will expose each other to the company in this chain leading to the recycler. Minister! The waste database is in its infancy. Unfortunately, it's in its infancy - that's what we have to say. What would be most important is that the result of this law is a uniform approach of citizens to segregation and, above all, that they feel obliged to do so. On the other hand, the Minister is effectively fleeing the regulation, which would determine quality parameters, would allow the country to determine uniformly what is selected waste and what is no longer. Minister, to say that this community will decide... Yeah, but there's no boundaries to the waste stream. It all goes into one installation, from one municipality so selected, and on the other it goes. I ignore the fact that there will still be such a mechanism, in a situation where bales, baled PET, tone, the cost of something like this, collecting such bales is 2,000. zł, and the withdrawal to some recycler - for this you will get $1,000. zł. That is why we will still have a situation when the selected waste is placed on this one package of garbage trucks and then mixed on it, because there are still no incentives in the system for consumers, in particular private customers, to actually recycle and collect separately. This will not be done by the increased charge for non-segregated waste, because these criteria are de facto absent, and in fact you are building a mechanism in which we will, the local government will be in conflict with the residents, because it will enforce this obligation to segregation and will not have the right tools to do so. Talking about how you're opening up to entrepreneurs, it's apparent, because it's really about them having, in addition to accessing the market, just where the waste is selected to walk away, and there's no such thing. As for the inhabitants themselves, those supposedly freed from the compulsion to be in the communal system, we have the situation that this is apparent, because we will have wild landfills again, we will have the passing of proverbial waste through the fence, we will have a situation where in crowded cities there will be garbage trucks of various recipients or in crowded tourist destinations. I'm not going to talk about what happened in the committee as far as I'm concerned, Minister, about the famous art. 4, which will de facto paralyze, because we still don't know what it's gonna look like, the car industry. I will no longer talk about what has been happening to unconsulted producers of these packaging packages, these bags, where the arguments, as we look at the product life cycle, look completely different and the approach of the European Commission also looks different. One last argument. How can I introduce [[♪ The bell ♪]] A change since September - please, Mr. Marshal, about 30 seconds - if these people have signed contracts with commercial networks? If these people have taken credit, how are they supposed to do it? You want to turn the business right away, where it works for a good morning of $4,000. People? You have to give vacathio legis. Overcontrol of the system for these people It's a year.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u522	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u523	And you don't know that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u524	Now Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u525	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 an opinion on print No 3495 - a draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. Ten hours in the subcommittee, four hours in the committee - we talked. And I will say that as a participant and conductor I have a large taste, a big taste, because ambitious plans, the 19th approach to the bill, it is already 19th, and after these 14 hours I assume that soon there will be 20, we are still talking about maintaining cleanliness, and wild landfills and messing arrives, and it does not decrease. We still do not have mechanisms to act effectively after these 14 hours, we do not have a reception market for recyclers, we do not have money for recyclers, we do not have an extended producer responsibility, they are still innocent, still pays the consumer and he is today the one who pays all the bills. We don't have a solution to the bail system, the problem of the biggest big things is unsolved, it's not tight, we've actually just slipped through the issue, maybe just solving the issue for KGHM, Orlenu and Azots, which appeared - I apologize for the name - from the boot at the committee meeting, before the fact made and the minister and the committee. I don't know if it was a lobbyist act or if it was an act in the interest of only three companies, not of households. I really don't have a lot of taste. The question of art. 4th and the automotive industry. Minister, what I'm trying to say is that if this bill comes into force with this article. 4, I assure you that the tabloids of the state will not run away in respect of garbage, but in respect of cars. You will be the heroes of all the tabloids showing the puriazum in the salons, not in the stores, not in the points of used cars, but in the salons of new cars that have never seen the way. This topic will be a topic that will politically bring you down. What I'm saying is that during the election period, I would really throw out this article because he's just a total surprise. This was said by the automotive industry, not only by the Commission, but also by the salons: this will bring you down in the election year. It's political suicide, but it's your decision, not mine. Another matter, I have already talked about it and finally submitted as a request from a minority. Minister, the trash mafia aren't companies, they're X-persons who take a trailer packed up the ceiling with trash, drive up to the parking lot or into the woods, leave it and run away, they don't need companies. More than 50%, I suspect. This kind of activity is people who do this kind of thing wildly. Companies have to account for themselves, there are elements of pillars, but these pillars simply fight. You have focused on the least problematic issue today, when the essence is still unsolved, because, in fact, at this value, it is enough, Minister, to set up an SA company and these points are already dead. Just register a company in the Czech Republic today and these points are dead. It really doesn't change anything. It should be a natural person, not a legal person, because for today you have put in place a mechanism for the viral infection of capital companies and those with the municipality and those with private capital. I repeat once again: wild dumps do not form a company, today it is done by individuals, and at this point they are still innocent. Second thing. Unfortunately, in many cases the liquidation of the company is still not enough, because it is necessary to put not the company, but the person who makes such decisions and takes concrete action. Personal settlement, not collective responsibility from the commune. We are introducing into the business a bad practice that does not really exist on the market, and I repeat once again: it can plunge all companies including companies of the Treasury. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u526	Thank you very much. 10 ladies and gentlemen have asked questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u527	Minister! I said that in the subcommittee: pacta sunt servanda, contracts must be kept. You have agreed with the local authorities at the joint committee meeting that it will be so that the owners of unbuilt property will be able to disable themselves from the system, and now you will change it at the last moment, that they will be able to choose any recipient, which in practice may mean that they will not choose any. [[That's not gonna happen.]] I could multiply the dangers of such a system here. Self-governments are talking about fragmentation, but we know in fact that this is about the emergence of hundreds of different kinds of pathologies, over which the municipality will not have control. If self-government is the foundation of the state as well as the government, then why did it happen? How can you work in such a way that on key issues - after all, this is a law [[♪ The bell ♪]] about maintaining order and cleanliness in municipalities - not communicating with local governments? It's outrageous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u528	Thank you, sir. Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u529	Minister! High Izbo! I very much regret that we are proceeding on such an important bill at this hour. But I have questions. First of all, I want to ask, because I could not find it, what is the opinion, because above all these are regulations concerning local governments, the Polish City Association and the county union. I couldn't figure it out. Second question. I know, Minister, that you were in Zgierz in connection with the biggest waste fire in Poland last year. What kind of translation... [[Voice from the hall: Talk to us, to the people, not to the Minister.]] But this question is addressed to the Minister in particular, because I know that the Minister was in Zgierz. What is the translation of these changes, this amendment into the facts that occurred in Zgierz last year? Because so far there's a dispute of competence, the waste hasn't been cleaned out. And the third question: What is your opinion and the rapporteur's opinion - you have already talked about it, but I would like to go back to it again - on this subject? Recently, as part of intercommunal relationships, I know such ones, a lot of installations have been created. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are these investments due to the change in regionalisation not likely to fall? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u530	Good evening. We come to the next question and are asked by Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u531	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It would seem that after a few years of experience, you should prepare a law that will significantly improve procedures and introduce solutions that will positively affect the cleanliness and order of municipalities. Are you sure? I don't think so. It's a pity you didn't take into account the rapid increase in waste. It's a shame you didn't listen to the voice of a social factor who paid attention to a lot of things. Let me ask you a question, Minister. why you didn't include the responsibility of packaging manufacturers in the legislation. You know, Minister, this price is the lowest in Europe. Which provisions of the Act provide for the extension or encouragement to expand installations which are already insufficient today? All local governments are calling for this. Aren't you afraid that the changes made will lead to the liquidation of voivodship plans [[♪ The bell ♪]] waste management and the idea of RIPOK installation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u532	Thank you. I invite Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u533	Dear Marshal! Minister! On Thursday 27 June I attended a meeting with the shareholders of the communal company Sanikom. I was asked to pass on questions to the Minister on behalf of them and other local authorities. Local governments are very concerned about the increase in municipal waste management costs, mainly calories. The residents are not prepared to bear such high costs generated by the existing waste system. What about us? What do we do, chosen by the sovereign? We are certainly not making things easier, but we are once again putting in place the wrong solutions. Another amendment of the law, like previous amendments, does not solve problems, e.g. with a calorie fraction, because there is not enough processing power to process them. According to various experts, this is 2, 3 million... [[♪ The bell ♪]] And now the question is: Who will bear the costs of regionalisation for the transfer of bio-waste? And doesn't the proposal to level prices mean an increase in prices for all for most installations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u534	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u535	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the bill, owners of uninhabited properties, e.g. Restaurants, shops, wholesalers will be able to decide for themselves how they will sign individual receipt agreements with whom. And do you realize that this is the beginning of the dismantling of the 2013 system in which the municipality knows what is happening to the waste? As a result, we risk increasing the number of illegal landfills and potential chaos in the backyards, especially downtown cities. Are you aware of all this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u536	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u537	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How do you understand the following problems: the lack of a recycling market, the lack of disposal of certain types of waste, in particular plastic, the difficulty in finding customers of alternative fuel and ballast, sorted municipal waste, film? At the moment, the manufacturer must pay, until recently the recipient paid. And second question. As you will solve the problem of limiting the area of existing plants and hence the lack of sufficient space to collect individual types of waste and additional requirements due to fire conditions. If we consider the annual storage period, it may not be possible to meet these conditions. The next issue is the time horizon. First, we need to secure the resources for investment. Few which undertaking will be able to comply with the requirements for regulations on its own resources. Many establishments are obliged to apply the PHP Act, so the procedures are long-lasting and often have to be repeated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The regulation should give longer time to adapt, for example. The most important investments can then be made in turn. How would you like to implement this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u538	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u539	Minister! People who live in holiday homes came to my parliamentary office and report this kind of problem, that the municipality is not interested in the development of waste from the area of holiday homes. Those who receive - also not necessarily. If they pick up once, then they quit because they say it doesn't pay off. The effect of this is that such places, forests, etc. They're, in short, littered. And does this bill that we're working on here somehow change this situation? Will it have an impact on increasing the responsibilities of municipalities to conclude contracts, to receive waste when it comes to holiday areas? It's very good that this is where we speak. also about composting waste, home composting plants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask if the law regulates this issue in more detail and to what extent it would be beneficial for those who decide to compost certain types of waste in home composting plants, because I think this is an interesting idea. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u540	Thank you. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. Madame, are you giving up on the question? [[No, no, no, no.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u541	In the light of this bill, I wanted to ask the Minister if it would be safer to liquidate the monopoly here. Will it be cheaper for the residents? I think the government will have to deal with this problem. And what if city councillors criticize the need for changes and increases in fees? Will the Minister come and explain it then? Because it's not 460 people, with this project we go to all the residents, raise the charges. I'd like to invite you, for example. To Rzeszow, Minister, where your piS colleagues criticize all projects because they must be more expensive. There is no responsibility for packaging manufacturers. Why didn't you try to solve what was an authentic demand of local governments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u542	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u543	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask you the point of setting maximum rates for municipal waste charges for owners of uninhabited or summer property. I come from a tourist area where there are many or even a lot of apartments where people don't live permanently. The fixing of maximum rates will mean that these rates will soon be reduced, if they are not already understated, in relation to the actual costs borne by the municipalities. This will result, first of all, in a huge mess, because I do not think that the municipality will cover the property in receipt of garbage if the rates are set below the costs. Why are such regulations introduced that will cause a big mess in municipalities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u544	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u545	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The lion's share of waste generated in Poland is garbage collected from households. According to the data I reached, there were almost 10 million tons in 2017, i.e. more than 83% all waste. Despite the development of selective collection of waste and the increasing number of points of selective collection of municipal waste, we can all see that landfills are still bursting. When in the late '80s and early '90s. I was in the U.S., and there were vending machines there that took the packaging: beer cans and coca-cola, PETs, bottles, and for each individual package, small amounts were refunded. Here I ask the question - this issue was raised in the statements of your Members - whether the Ministry is considering an alternative path of selective collection of packaging in the future. It would probably involve a common bail system. And what would be the cost of that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u546	Thank you. And the last question here will be asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u547	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have an opportunity, so I'm going to ask, Minister, why do you answer the Members' questions not on the subject, as if you were responding to the interpolations. I asked questions about irregularities in specific waste management facilities, and you informed me about the legislative work being carried out in your ministry and in the Sejm. Is it because your subordinates can't cope with the irregularities that are in the installations? Is it because the servants under your command can't tell what the causes of accidental self-fire are in the garbage dumps on days off from work, that we haven't been there for decades, and we've been watching the wave for three years? [[Applause]] A few weeks ago in Ostrów, under Białystok, in Mazowsze - one after another. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the reason for this is that the PiS allows us to import huge amounts of waste from all over the world, not even from Europe... [[Applause]] [[What fairy tales do you tell?]] ...and that it is here in Poland that these trash simply burn illegally? You can't handle it. What's more, this bill doesn't do it at all, you don't even do it, you don't try to solve it. [[Applause]] [[You have no idea what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u548	I ask you to answer the questions of Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk. [[Your Marshal, thank you so much for extending your time.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u549	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Cleanliness and Order Act in the municipalities is talking about a problem. Its aim was not a comprehensive solution to the problem of waste management. To answer the questions that have been raised, regarding the bail system, etc., I would like to say that yes, yes, that is not a comprehensive solution to the problem. The Ministry is working on a bail system and producer responsibility for placing packaging on the market. However, for this system to be effective, precise records must be kept, and precise records can only be kept when we run the waste management base. So I would like to inform you that the work on the bail system is ongoing, but if it is implemented at a time when the waste management base is not fully operational, the effect would be the same as in the case of thin foil bags. We could actually rely on the salesman's statement, no credibility, no control system. Of course, I regret that the waste management base has not been established. She should have been raised in your reign... [[4 years.]] ...because in 2012 the state itself passed the Waste Base Act. [[4 years.]] And all these years, you haven't done anything about it. You didn't do anything. [[Voice from the courtroom: You have cancelled the tender.]] Oh, the tender... [[Tell me what you've done. Nothing, nothing.]] Yeah, it's the waste management base that's gonna start testing right now. And since 1 January 2020, he moves in a way that obliges all waste managers to register online... [[Oh, late, late.]] ...in the waste management base. So that's the reason. Of course, I don't suspect that these delays, etc. They were made on purpose. I understand the problems with tenders, I understand the problems, and that is why we decided to order the construction of a waste management base for the unit owned by the Ministry of Environment, the Institute of Environmental Protection. This job is coming to an end this year. It is therefore a tool that will actually solve waste management problems comprehensively and I agree that this is not a comprehensive solution. We have to wait for a comprehensive solution. We must also have tools to ensure that this comprehensive solution is effective. This solution will be presented at the end of this year. So that's the answer to that question, and it's really okay... [[What if you lose the election?]] That's your problem, not ours, so we're working... [[It's the fact that if you lose the election, we'll have a problem.]] That's a problem we're not paying attention to. We're working because we're convinced we're going to implement this. If you were implementing this, the waste management base would be dead for years to come, as it has been since 2012. [[4 years.]] [[Four years.]] So this is the answer to the question of whether this is a comprehensive solution. It's not. What is the purpose of this bill? The purpose of this law is primarily to break down the regional monopolies of municipal waste treatment facilities and freeze admission limits to these RIPOKs by voivodship waste management plans. Unfortunately, we have such phenomena that at the moment regional installations feel monopolistic, having a stream of waste provided, and if they want to have increased limits, the Marshal does not allow them to do so, so prices go up in an unlimited way - in no way can we justify more than twice the price increase, for example. from December 2017 to January 2019 No, wages have not doubled, although they have actually increased a lot. No other costs have increased that much. It is a monopolistic procedure, sometimes deliberate, sometimes forced by the Marshal's decision, which does not allow to increase the limits. [[There's no...]] This is the answer to the question of why prices are rising. That's the reason. That is why this law provides, firstly, for the abolition of regionalisation, secondly, for the possibility of building new installations, and thirdly for financial support for these installations in order for local authorities to take over waste management. Where local authorities - there are such examples - or local authorities are owners of the collection system and owners of regional municipal waste treatment facilities, prices are moderate. Indeed, local governments can do so with concern for the inhabitants, although sometimes local governments also behave monopolisticly. One of the reasons that the Constitutional Tribunal has pointed out is the change, or actually the introduction of an upper limit on non-inhabited property charges, i.e. holiday homes. The very different practice made it so great that it was disproportionate to the residents of the municipality. Therefore, among others. We are executing the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Determination of the fee of 10% The disposable income, i.e. about PLN 160, is, of course, due to the average amount of fees that were applied. Another thing is investment. Mr Stefan Romecki was worried about investment. Well, now that there's nothing to do with the waste, the municipalities or the companies taking waste from the municipalities have nowhere to transfer it to the RIPOKs, it's actually the investments that are at the moment, there's nothing to worry about. We allow these investments to arise. The next stage, which will create new investments, is to unfreeze those who have received limits in the voivodship waste management plans. Unfortunately, there's a lot of frozen limits. I understand that sometimes you can freeze the limit so that there's no competition, and that you hold the limit. This law provides that these limits, which are unused, which are paper and block the development of other companies, will disappear. Such an investment will be thrown out in the waste management plan so that others who really want to operate in the waste management system can enter this place. Of course, we also introduce national limits. It is clear that recycling is the first task in terms of waste management. We strive to achieve 65% recycling after many years. In this law, we set a limit for the production or extension of a thermal treatment plant of up to 30%. The point is not to build an incinerator that burns 100%. waste, because by no means will we obtain such a level of recycling. So there is a limit, but we are very far from that level and there will also be support for this type of investment. On the other questions that have been raised, on the question of Mrs Gabriela Masłowska - indeed, this law provides that it is possible to apply relief to those who have a composter. It is extremely important to encourage the use of composters so that biodegradable waste does not have to be collected or transported to regional municipal waste treatment facilities. [[What about the zoonoses?]] Animal waste? [[Zoo-animals. To the composter.]] Biodegradable waste on composters. [[Which means the animal's, too.]] Zoo animals, too. [[So that's what we're gonna have.]] That's what we do all the time. [[No, Minister.]] So anyone with technical capabilities runs a composter, and with this problem there is no problem, therefore it should be rewarded. [[Oh, by the way.]] Jarosław Urbaniak spoke about ignitions, imports of waste, etc. I think the ignition problem, the garbage mob problem... Someone said the trash mafia isn't a company, it's some kind of natural person. It's all junk mafias that are the most common companies for poles. The example of Zgierz, which was also mentioned here, unfortunately, was a very clear example of the garbage mafia, when the irresponsible old man consented to irresponsible collection of waste, allowing the owner of this company to abandon waste, and I do not want to prejudic, because there is no valid judgment of the court, but with great probability he also set fire. On the other hand, I would like to state that the problem of protecting landfills from fires has been resolved by the July Ub Act. r. The effects are that, despite the very hot spring and summer, the number of landfill fires compared to the previous year is twice as low. So the bill worked. Of course, old landfills have not disappeared, because unfortunately after many years of landfills, where waste was collected in a way or legal way, where this legality has expired, or in an absolutely illegal way, is over 350, such more important ones. That's over 3.5 million tons. But this isn't waste from this year. These are waste collected for many, many years. They didn't disappear despite the July bill. d. and mostly e.g. There's a problem with this waste. [[Voice from the room: These are on fire.]] We want to help local governments clean up this waste, which is to eliminate this painful past. The example of Zgierz is an example - I could give many more examples - the actions of the garbage mafia. Except we solved this problem last year and it has significant effects. [[Voice from the room: But what?]] Like I said, there's twice as many fires, you don't see these effects? [[Voice from the room: But significant...]] Twice as many landfill fires. If you don't understand what that means twice as much... [[But the waste as it was lying down, it's like that.]] ...I don't know how to explain. These are the effects. These are the effects. [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] And the rubbish to Zgierz unfortunately allowed an irresponsible old man to bring in. There was no law like that, we prepared this bill, and now he's not bringing it back. But unfortunately, those trash didn't disappear, which is obvious. [[Exactly.]] On the other hand, we are open to helping the local government to remove what is left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u550	That's it, Minister? [[Voice from the room: Fire waste.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u551	But the government should report, there are appropriate procedures, such assistance will be provided.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u552	Is that all?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u553	The next thing you know, there's no bail system. That's what I've been talking about. On the other hand, when it comes to plastic bags, I have this question, I would like to ask the Member: So we are not putting this deposit on foil bags? Talking about... Bail or plastic bags are system sealing. This is a very necessary action, because everyone realizes that it was a rule being omitted. Of course, always purse manufacturers would like to produce and keep littering Poland as long as possible, but that's why there's a fee to gradually use these bags less and less. There are countries where the use of disposable plastic bags has been banned at all, while we are only sealing the system here. [[Game in the O.R.]] And another case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] cooperation with local authorities. The law has been discussed for a very long time and, as you can see at committee meetings, there are very different opinions. I realize that entrepreneurs sometimes have different interests than self-government, and I wonder why self-governments were acting against entrepreneurs. Hence, the solutions that have been proposed in the end are compromise solutions, they do not prefer either side, these are solutions, I would say, free, so uninhabited real estate...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u554	Minister, go to the end, because time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u555	...can be free... The landlord will decide... [[Voice from the hall: What does he say?]] ...in which system he wants to be. Have the municipalities offer the system. On the other hand, going back to local governments...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u556	Minister, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u557	...it was the government of Law and Justice that strengthened the local governments very much, allowing inhaust in waste management, which your government did not want to do. So, about the concern for the local government...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u558	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u559	...it was really the government of law and justice that showed it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's a world record.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u560	Thank you very much, Minister. Do you, Mrs... I have not given you the floor, sir. Does the rapporteur still want to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u561	High Izbo! I would like to thank all the participants in the debate on this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of waste management this is a problem that requires peace, reflection and consideration of various, so to speak arguments, i.e.. coming from different directions. That's what we tried to do, and a moment ago, the Minister said it. Let me remind you, Art. 4 has been modified in a very serious way, including requests for setting maximum rates. There was openness when it came to taking into account the demands of local governments. Never, ladies and gentlemen, if we are dealing with such complicated matter, with a long-term process where we simply need to gradually seal the law, introduce such conditions to ensure transparency... I remind you of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber 2 years ago, where the Supreme Audit Office estimates that the turnover in waste management is between 30% and 50% It's a gray area. So there is no other way, only: firstly, to build a waste database, so that we can have a reliable flow of information, because it is only on reliable information that programs can be built and the effects of legislative action assessed. So I think that the bill that we've been debating is a step in the right direction to rationalise and seal the rules. Thank you very much for this discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u562	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, made a request for correction. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome. No, because this can't be a discussion, Mr President. You weren't mentioned at all, not even mentioned in any particular way by name... [[I stayed. That's why I wanted to stay.]] The answer to the question... But the argument cannot be that you are making requests for correction to speak again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u563	Minister, I would expect you to be honest... [[Look who's talking.]] ...because the problem isn't that the packaging was manufactured. The problem is that packaging goes into the environment outside the stream of waste received and sorted. You know very well that if we have heavier bags, they will be covered by this recycling charge of about 25 gr, as well as those medium bags, what will the shops do? They will, of course, sell the average ones, which will also carry 10 kg, because the fee is the same and their weight is smaller. Nothing changes here, Minister. The point is that we are talking about industry and respect for entrepreneurs. It's not just to create a situation where they're gonna have problems, it's just that you get the right vacathio legis, and they're bringing it up here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not since September, because nobody's gonna do that maneuver because it's impossible. That's what I'm talking about, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u564	Thank you, sir. And Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz,15, also on the issue of correction. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u565	I'd like to say a little bit to the Minister, because you said they were building... Very nice, I'm glad. You were talking about it, and I'd like to say that maybe you wouldn't understand me - there's nowhere to dispose of the waste that they're processing, processing. And that's the problem with it being stored. I'm here at the PGK dump, and I'm watching it, and I'm touching it, and the director is explaining it to me, and I'm in good contact with him. The guy who processed it, he changed it, there's no place to throw it, and that's such a small problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u566	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u567	Minister! I would like to ask what substantive reasons were behind the definition of municipal installations, excluding the view of new available waste treatment technologies. Whether such a formulation of the project does not exclude the possibility of using new technologies, especially Polish ones, developed among others. Thanks to the NCBR funds? If so, the use of municipal waste in a relatively modern way would be doomed to use very expensive incinerators, probably built by German companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u568	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and the Act on corporate income tax (prints No 1863 and 3247). Mr Tadeusz Cymanski will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u569	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr Presidential Minister! Guests! Delegations! I have the honour to present the report of the Public Finance Committee in print 3247. This law, which is a law proposed by your President, was first dealt with in a special subcommittee set up by the Public Finance Commission. Her chair is here, I bow, Mr President. I've had the honor and pleasure, but it's also a little hard to do this job. This resulted in a report which was on 20 and 21 February 2019 - all of this took some time - considered by the Committee on Public Finance and is adopted in the form of a final report, i.e. a draft law which the High House received in print, which I mentioned. Emotion was very much because this matter had a very broad social context, it was very widely discussed, exposed in the media. This also involved an extremely complicated problem, the whole story of which It's hard to quote here. I will only say so much in the conclusion that in the final part of this work we managed to prepare a project which - I would like to put it in a synthetic form - had two views, two parts. One which is closely linked to the title of this law, i.e. the support of borrowers in financial difficulties. She was a continuation of an existing law, which entered into force and acted, acting modestly for some objective reasons, but the committee undertook to work on this law. She was directed to all the customers. This is a very important observation: the support proposed by the President in this law was so with so-called loans. as for loans denominated in foreign currencies, let's say. That's the part, that core. On the other hand, a novelty and an extension of the scope of this law was the introduction of this conversion fund, a restructuring fund, he was differently called in the course of his work, a fund which was intended to create a system, a mechanism, triggering the efforts of banks, a fund which would then be used to sanitize, improve the situation of customers, contractually say, franchise. Hard numbers, hard analyses, as well as the reaction and assessment of the environment itself - very active, organized; these are several active associations - have left no illusions: these solutions do not satisfy the recipients of this aid, i.e. those who have loans in foreign currencies, for various reasons. Those expectations that arose earlier were far, far greater. With great emotions, with various votes, the work on this report was completed, as I said, by presenting this print for acceptance. I think it's also fair to say that there was a huge conflict of interest here, a huge tension. Banks, I think it's understandable, always defending their economic performance and doing everything they can to make as much profit as possible. We have had different times, there is no pity here, while the environment of organized and unorganized customers, those with foreign currency loans, expected best at all to convert loans at rates that were the day they took credit. There were various analyses, and there were complex projects here. The subcommittee, which was founded, was to deal with all complex projects, including opposition projects: the Civic Platform and the Kukiz Club15. The work has, after all, been limited to this project, which is why I am talking about it as chairman of this subcommittee. She was working on a specific print project 1863, addressed to the Sejm by the President. To get to the point, I want to say that the committee took it. Today, the High House is to lean on this, the clubs are to present their views on the subject of the report, i.e. the draft presidential law after the changes, after the corrections, following the amendments which resulted from the work of the subcommittee and then the Committee on Public Finance. I ask the High House to accept this proposal, whether amended or not, in the course of the discussion. I would also like to thank the marshal at this point that he has decided to put this project in the order of the committee's work, because different views, often contradictory, sometimes critical, do not change the merits of this law. In my view, as rapporteur, but I think that everyone will agree with this, the issue is probably undisputed and undisputed, this law changes greatly in favour - and makes it easier for them to access - the conditions for helping a very large group of citizens, especially young couples who have financial problems, have problems with repayment of the credit, and when they want to sell the apartment in a dramatic situation, sometimes it does not cover the credit they have incurred. Please, in conclusion, accept the bill by the High House. I'm talking about a discussion that's about to start here and make it happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u570	Thank you very much. I understand it's all in this speech. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u571	Thank you, Marshal. I don't want to change faces, but I'm in a different role. This is, however, a situation where I can speak from the heart, and as rapporteur I must speak calmly and coolly, reflect the course of discussion and differences. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to express on behalf of the parliamentary club... Maybe first, so emotion doesn't cause such a situation...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u572	It's emotional, that's why. [[Is that from the heart?]] It's from the heart. Such emotions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u573	It's obvious... I'm an MP with 20 years of practice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u574	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u575	The rapporteur's job is to report without emotion, to say...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u576	Mr President, you are not listening to me. You said to me, Mr. Marshal, and hence my comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u577	Marshal, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u578	Besides, you can say it any way you want.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u579	I'm so sorry. [[Applause]] That's a sign of emotion. Thank you for your kind attention. It is also important that this criticism is kind, warm. [[As always.]] Thank you very much. Maybe first, so that emotions do not put out the most important thing, I would like to make three amendments to this bill, which is the subject of the High House's deliberations. In short, synthetically speaking: these amendments are based on the fact that from this project that we present, from this print report no.3247, but delete, eliminate with any legal consequences the conversion fund, the restructuring fund - for some reason, I will present it in a moment. I'm putting this in your hands, Marshal. [[Isn't there gonna be a fund?]] Yes. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please? [[Voice from the room: Nothing will happen.]] [[So, the Sejm's over?]] The most important value of this law, its message, even symbolic and practical, is that it is directed, as I said, to customers, but above all to young couples in a very difficult financial situation. In relation to what is now in this law, the amount of aid has been increased three times. Not for 18 months at 1.5,000. PLN maximum, only 36 months after 2 000. zł. That's not $27,000. zł, just 72 thousand. zł - these are quite different amounts. Second thing. Of course, this is feedback, but without interest. For 3 years, most often young people will be able to benefit from this aid - the aid consists of banks, so that it is clear, but it is already from the discussion that everyone knows - and then there are 2 years of withdrawal, followed by a repayment period of 12 years. That's not the end of it. If 100 instalments are paid, 44 instalments will be cancelled. You don't have to be an economist, you don't have to be a mathematician to understand what inflation is, and even with such a modest projection of inflation, this help will make the actual real payment of this aid at a rate of several dozen percent, in my simulations out of 25 Yeah, you can check that out. If someone says it's a little help, they're very wrong. That is why I am talking about symbolic policy change in Poland. This help - I thank the President for changing access criteria, for improving access criteria and improving the scale of this assistance - is still expanding to an extreme, dramatic possibility, when young people in a certain determination and sometimes in desperation decide to sell their apartment and pay off this - I will not finish what - credit. Sometimes the amount of this sale does not cover the loan. And there's help for that, too. I don't know how, and it was so sad that... Some people raise and scream that it's nothing, that it's weak. I don't get it. I guess some people don't really feel the importance of money or understand the situation of people in difficult situations. It is undeniable and obvious in this matter. I would like to stress this at this point because in the past - I have to hurry - there were various programs, but they were aimed at young people... An example of the MDM, where billions of zlotys were directed to people who had a credit rating, had a large income, had their own resources. This, in turn, is addressed to people in a very difficult situation. And that's changed. We do not want to criticize other aid, but we want to point out that above all - and this is a conclusion - all aid should be directed to different social groups. Here we are talking mostly about young people, people in difficult situations. And that bill is fulfilling it. That's why my club [[♪ The bell ♪]] not only will he support it, but he will continue to work on improving it, improving it, and perhaps making changes, but that is another subject. Time doesn't allow me when I want to talk about it very much, but I can't, because time criteria are very modest. But thank you for listening to my colleague, although there were so many critical remarks. Minister, thank you. And thank you, Marshal, once again, for the unfortunate, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u580	But I'm not offended at all. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u581	The priest blames you, the priest blames us, simple poverty everywhere. Paraphrasing the words of Nicholas Reja from a brief hearing between three people: the master, the governor and the parishioner can be referred to the French. Unfortunately, to the French people, poverty. So what if we have four projects? But I'm going back to the President's election campaign, and I'm going back to the PiS campaign. You said you'd help 500,000, 700,000. people who have so-called. franc loans. During 2015, when the Civic Platform prepared two projects, the so-called project. The conversions, the changes to the dollars, the state said: it's a bad solution, 50-50, aid to the people who took out these loans. A completely different situation than today. The state criticized 90% by 10%. Where are your promises? Where are your promises that you're gonna trade at the borrowing rate? That's what the president said. He even filed a bill called the so-called law. It's a spread. It's print number 811, he went to the subcommittee. The clubs have submitted their projects. My club, the Civic Platform Club, submitted a project on 15 January 2016. The Kukiz Club15 submitted on 28 April 2016. So? A committee was set up and the bill laid down. Mr. President leaned down, rewritten the project, the Civic Platform project, slightly powdered it. So? Nothing. Today we were talking... This is a draft committee report, where we talked about the conversion fund, that it was imperfect. You even ripped those teeth out. You insisted, and Minister Duda, and Mr Cymanski, and they all shaved their robes. Where are you today? What's your face? You're not helping the franchise. That's $500,000. The people who trusted you then were dismissed. It's a powder bill. You have spoken and shown so much how this conversion fund will help that banks will talk to customers, they will offer customers new terms because they will have to pay for the conversion fund. This conversion fund, the old, old, supposedly out of date today, you've divided those who are going to have... Because some banks will carry out, and others will not, because they will carry out a repair program, and that will not be the case anymore. Today we have a different situation, we are waiting for the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on abusive clauses. We must speak honestly and openly. This is important today. And today no project that will be powdering, because it's support, this revised bill of the Civic Platform will also have to be paid... And today we say to you, 'Cause it's up to anyone to do it: what's wrong, to blame, and to stay with the good. Unfortunately, there is nothing left to commend. There's nothing. All these years, the state has promised people for four years and they haven't done anything. We're not gonna talk about the details because we talked about them on the committee. And there's something else I want to tell you. One of the netizens wrote when we were investigating this project, and he wrote to the rulers. Minister, please quote to the president these words of the Internet: Are you aware that Poles do not fools and have their brains? The state, all of you in franchise, must now consider in your hearts, in your money, when paying off the contracts that you were promised, and nothing has been accomplished. Nothing. It's a very bad solution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just a revised Civic Platform project. The State has failed to do anything, and the Foreign Minister responds to my request that the project be compatible with EU law that he will not give me such an answer. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the biggest scandal in the process. Promises, promises, promises, promises, promises, promises, promises, promises, promises, promises, promises, Ladies and gentlemen, zero for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u582	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u583	None of the franchise, none of these associations were happy working in the Sejm. Nobody. And no one's gonna approve of this project today, just like us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u584	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u585	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a dilemma, a problem. It's all about copyright. Who is actually the hero and author of this project? The platform that confesses to him, or are you the president? It's like the first problem I have today, copyright. But it's worth explaining it to each other. Second line. With all the sympathy for the Minister and the President, the President wants to help the more he wants to help, the more he interferes. To say more, this point in the President's electoral programme is simply not arranged and what we are talking about today has nothing to do with the problem of the so-called. François. Let's call this thing by name, because that's just the truth. This has nothing to do with people who have pseudofranchised loans. I don't know if you know how many people here have had an agreement since November. (a) under that existing law fund. Do you know how much? 50. Do you know how many contracts have been made? Over 700,000. Circa 2 million people. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about change. It's about change. For 3 and 4 years the banks have spoken and defended: we will not pay, our customers will not pay. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's newspaper is not talking about change - billions. The business pulsa is about the fact that banks have, I apologize for the non-parliamental term, full of pants, because they are not talking about small, but about 60 billion, which not the Polish Sejm, but the TSUE will order them to give up their teeth and pay. And today the banks come to the Polish Prime Minister and ask him to stand up. Attention, private banks, foreign banks expect that the Polish Prime Minister, God forbid the President, would defend them and justify them before EU courts. Ladies and gentlemen, we're coming to some kind of psychic situation, because for today, when it comes to justice, they send us to courts, people are in courts, and they win cases at first instance, second instance, the Supreme Court is already kicking the shit out of banks, and the TSUE is kicking the shit out of banks. What do the banks say? Prime Minister, save me. The question to the Minister, the President's Chancellery, did the President get such a letter that the banks had to be rescued. We have private banks, please, in Poland more than 24, of which with this franc scam, which NIK showed, the report by NIK-owski showed this, is about 10 Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, half of the banks, those of this group of clean banks, keep their fingers crossed for us, behind the Kukiz Club15, for the franchise, because the market doesn't like emptiness and really fills this void quickly with competitors. One thing I'm worried about is that the Polish political class in front of the banking system, the world banking system, they're chicken, they're panicking. We're panicked. We're scared. Asecurancely the government and Polish politicians, the government, did not agree to the bill dedicated. They sent him to court. Because if the court decides, the Treasury will be clean. But as we can see, there may be such a punch line that banks will come and blackmail the Polish government, Polish taxpayers, even though they have broken the law that we have talked about this for years. Moreover, as you reach the archives, to what I said in April of the year, when I presented printing No.729, exactly the TSUE speaks of the same thing, the courts speak of the same thing, only then did most of you laugh at it. Modern colleagues applied for rejection at first reading, and the courts confirmed that I was right about what I said and what we wrote in the project. The TSUE will summarize this in September and banks will get to pay the bill, banks, not the state budget and Poles, but banks, bank owners. The banks are finally going to suffer the consequences. As in Iceland, there are courts and there are prisons, if someone violates the law and seriously violates the principles of social life, they suffer consequences and, as necessary, they go to prison. It is time to introduce the Icelandic model in Poland. Because that's how you do things according to law and justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u586	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, made a written statement. There is, therefore, another speech by a Member from the Confederation of Robert Majka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u587	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! On 4 April 2019 the Supreme Court ruled in an action by one of the borrowers that the credit agreement indexed in Swiss francs should be regarded as a loan in Polish zlotys. 14 May Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union Giovanni Pitruzzella - I apologise if I misnamed the name - presented the position which is to announce the future ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is due to take place in July. According to the Opinion of the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union published above, one of the options for final decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union may be identical to the judgment of the Supreme Court, which held that a mortgage credit agreement indexed in Swiss francs should be regarded as a loan in Polish zlotys, interest-bearing at the LIBOR rate for the Swiss franc. Therefore, I have two questions for the Minister and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki: whether, in the context of the so-called judgment planned for July. Franc credits according to EU regulation and non-compliant clause is the sense of the process of the draft law in question, which provides for other, less favourable legal solutions for borrowers than those which may be decided within a few weeks by the TSUE? Question two: Will Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki accept the request of the Polish Bank Association and present the comments of the Advocate General TSUE on the interpretation of the provisions of Directive 93/13/EEC on unfair terms in consumer contracts? In recent days, the press has announced that the Polish Bank Association has requested in a letter addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the Financial Stability Committee to support banks before the TSUE and to comment on the opinion of the Advocate General of the TSUE - the interpretation of the provisions of Directive 93/13/EEC on unfair terms in consumer contracts and the risk of duplication by national courts which is economically defective and which consequently threatens the stability of the financial system in Poland in the interpretation of the Ombudsman's interpretation of the effects of the classification as an abusive index clause. Please answer these two questions in writing. I also have a request that the President, who is not present at today's session of the Sejm, on such an important matter... [[Voice from the room: There's the minister.]] ...also answered my two questions in writing. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u588	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to sign in yet? Please sign in, sir. We start with the questions, I close the list. You are starting with Rafał Mucha, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u589	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On the basis of my own professional experience, I can say that undoubtedly helping clients of banks, clients connected with housing loans in large amounts is extremely important. Undoubtedly, they are in a difficult situation, more difficult because of how they are connected with banks. I would like to ask the rapporteur a question: How does the committee think this particular project will affect the use of the Creditor Support Fund, because it has been negligible so far? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u590	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u591	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the last election campaign, i.e. for 4 years, we have had a continuous performance in the performance of PiS politicians involved in helping borrowers. As my colleague said, this, during the election campaign President Duda promised to help so-called. To the franchise, he hasn't kept his word so far. On the other hand, we, the Civic Platform and the PSL, in 2015, which is at the end of our governments, passed a very good law on aid to borrowers, not only in franchise, but also in gold. And now, after these four-year push-ups and a continuous performance on this issue, you're correcting this bill, just as my previous speaker said, you're powdering it lightly and presenting it to us as your own. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask you why you are only doing this now, at the end of this term - it was still lying in the freezer - instead of helping these people in need, borrowers, mainly franchise.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u592	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u593	I have questions for the rapporteur: Why did you insist because it was you or one of your colleagues who proposed that we should not consider the other three projects? To the Minister: What happened that you were withdrawing from the proposal for this fund, where it would be possible to convert these loans? What, then, is the basis for your amendments? What about some of the matters to be settled in the Supreme Court? What about preparations for the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union? What is the position of the Financial Stability Committee? I do not believe that the Financial Stability Committee has not gathered on this issue [[♪ The bell ♪]] and did not talk and did not assess the risks to the banking sector associated with the possible judgment of the European Court. So what's next? And to the Minister: please tell the President that we are no longer counting on anything, because no promise has been made to the French state. [[Applause]] [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: I'll be right back...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u594	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u595	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Unfortunately, I had the dubious pleasure of working on this committee, the subcommittee on finding a solution and establishing some kind of help for the franchise. We had a very strong will to find such a solution. Only a few subcommittee meetings took place. Frankowicz participated actively in them, and we all knew what they wanted. Unfortunately, this proposal, which is here today in the Seym, does not in any way correspond to the expectations of the French people. We knew that because it was mentioned, it was clearly signalled at the committee meeting. And today it is not enough that this proposal does not solve anything, because the hard-to-pay credit we want to repay with another loan, it is still the President of our subcommittee who has suddenly deleted the provisions on the conversion fund and it has been unknown what. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Nothing.]] There's just nothing left. I think we should say thank you, we're going home, we're not making a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Well done, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u596	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u597	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to the statements of the representatives of the Civic Platform, it seemed that the problem of franchise borrowers began when you won the elections and took the presidency of Dr. Andrzej Duda and when the parliamentary elections were won by Law and Justice. Then, according to you, the problem of the franchise began. And what year was the rapid increase in the franc course? [[And it was up to us?]] But don't disturb me. It's during the rule of the Civic Platform, which means... [[But it's in Switzerland...]] [[The voice from the hall: But it was in Switzerland that they changed the course of the franc, not the Civic Platform.]] Don't mock me, just listen, 'cause sometimes it's worth listening to. So it was during the rule of the Civic Platform that the Frankish problem arose. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Who was the author of the bill on aid to borrowers? Because I think the Civic Platform, which is now totally criticizing this project. And Mr. Kukiz is criticizing right now, but the Civic Platform bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u598	Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u599	I won't make a mistake now, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! It's time. I have such a question especially to the government, because the bill to adopt is not art... Yes, it is art, but the greatest art is to monitor its implementation, to see its effects, its effects, to draw conclusions from it and to keep it up to date, quickly, because it concerns human problems, to correct it, to change it. It seems to me that here the problem is this - it refers to Mr Maciejewski's statement, very good speech, I did not like everything, but it was a good speech... [[Nice to meet you.]] ...how weak the effect of this bill is. Why? Because the access criteria set out in this original law were so scandalous. Ladies and gentlemen, income per person in the amount of access to social assistance... What are we talking about? [[You were three years old.]] And you've got some on your conscience. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All these years these people haven't had access...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u600	Mr President, this is the time for a question, not a comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u601	This isn't a normal performance, I'm almost done. Whether it will be monitored and whether the bill will be improved, so that its implementation is even better, because we do not spit on this bill as much as you do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u602	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski. [[Because it's a good help, only a poor criterion...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u603	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Here there was so much love and concern for those injured, that I do not know whether to enjoy or grieve. And I have a concrete proposal for the President, for the Ministry of Finance and for the Polish Parliament. If you really want to help these people, then at this stage, today here and now I encourage us to bend over the Bank Law, over the article. 95. Minister Mucha, this is an article that really brings people down because they're sold like a sack of potatoes on the market without knowing. The constitution is broken. The president signed this unfortunate novel, instead of referring it to the tribunal, unfortunately we slap it. A question for the Minister of Finance. Look at the stage at which this project was created in a magical way. We've been checking, and there's a big scam that's worth it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] look internally, within the MF. And we, within our parliament, should repeal this and restore the original version. That's why I submitted such a project to the Sejm at that meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u604	Thank you. And the last question in this point, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u605	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let's get the facts straight. It is worth saying after these statements that it was not the Civic Platform that freed the course of the franc. It wasn't the Civic Platform, it was the Bank of West WBK, when Mateusz Morawiecki was the president of it, he granted franc credits, which Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki forgot. Let us establish the fact that over four years ago, not the Civic Platform, only the presidential candidate Andrzej Duda and PiS promised to settle this matter. For four years there's been a ladle dance to do so much as not to do anything. Like in the Russian fairy tale about the patella: tianut, tianut, potianut can't, i.e. - because now Russian knowledge is no longer the best - they pull, pull, they can't pull. After this amendment, the Frankish cases will absolutely not be settled. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the political question arises, and to the President, and to the PiS: Why are you cheating Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u606	We come to the answer because we've completed the list of questions. The Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Paweł Mucha, begins. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u607	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot agree with those statements which make such a completely incorrect opinion that the law is unnecessary, that the law does not lead to the support of borrowers. It must come from either the ignorance of the law or really wrong will. If I were to make such an assessment, it would be such a formulation, which is that the aid of 2 000. PLN per month is for some in this House nothing, no help, no amount of money, shows that you do not know what the income of Poles is and what problems are encountered by all those who pay mortgage payments. Support that can reach 72 000 cannot be supported. zł, call any help or lack of help. [[Applause]] I understand that subjectively for a man of wealth, a man of high income, it will be small money... [[The punishment...]] ...but this bill is not addressed to very wealthy people. [[The Prime Minister is wealthy, not us.]] This law is addressed to those who need help. [[Times have changed.]] Therefore, I would ask you to respectfully refer to all those who are addressees of those provisions who will be able to benefit from this assistance. In short, support is addressed to all borrowers. It is addressed both to those borrowers who have gold loans and to those borrowers who have indexed or denominated loans to foreign currencies. That's the first thing. The current experience regarding the implementation of the provisions of this law according to its original wording indicates that this is more or less such a ceiling: 50-50. All those with gold loans and loans to foreign currencies are asking for this support. So this bill is needed. Only huge funds are aggregated today, about 600 million PLN. [[Used.]] This bill is necessary in this sense to make the 600 million PLN... Here again, a very wealthy man or a man of no need would say that it is no money. I'm not gonna say it's no money. This is 600 million PLN, which can serve and should be used to help Poles. And thank you for having this bill processed. [[And that's the Platform bill. This is the Platform Act.]] Today, when we amend the law, we are talking about extending the definition of housing credit. We respond to the demands of borrowers who acted in this respect either to the President's office or in general to the public. We liberalize the criteria for aid. Look at the art. 3 of the amended act. We are talking about a situation connected with unemployment, whether it is with the ratio of instalments to income, liberalizing this criterion to 50% , whether with reference to the level of rates as regards the Social Assistance Act. So we're talking about people who are in financial difficulties. What was raining here - this aid will not, so far, for 18 months, only be granted for 36 months, not in the amount of PLN 1500, but in the amount of PLN 2 000. zł. A completely new legal institution is emerging, which is that we grant the possibility of using the loan to repay the debt, when the repayment of the liability is not possible after the sale of the property. So we're potentially helping all those borrowers who either want to make this dramatic decision, or they've made this dramatic decision about selling real estate that's secured by this loan. When it is not enough to get out of debt to fully pay this commitment, this possibility is given by the provision of this law. It does not agree, it must not be said, that this is no help, that there is no help, because this is in my opinion the attitude of these, I hope, thousands of Poles who will be able to benefit and benefit from this legal institution. There's another very important thing - the appeal procedure. Nor do you see that this is also a new legal solution, that in the event that it was not possible to verify the creditor's decision. We introduce this procedure by verifying by the fund board whether or not someone meets the criteria. Absolutely these legal solutions are needed and expected. You're asking why right now. This is not a question for the President of the Republic of Poland. As was well said here, there were projects led by your President. I'm going to replace the print project 811, which is in the process of working on the committee... [[No, we're not working.]] ...the 1863 print project we're discussing today. On the other hand, if you are asking whether this law should not be adopted and then discounted, or whether this solution must be implemented, there is no doubt that it must be implemented, because here and now this aid is needed. I would also like to remind you, for which I thank you, that the Members of the opposition did not oppose this law in the subcommittee and supported it at least in part, if not mostly in terms of voting in the committee. I urge you to also support this bill in the vote... [[They'll back you up, they'll back you ……]] ...as it was on the committee, because this bill is necessary and necessary. There is a question of conversion and I will refer briefly to it. I understand that an amendment on the Conversion Fund has emerged from the President's side. On the other hand, there is nowhere any legal provision that would deny the possibility of proposing a voluntary conversion of banks or denying such a possibility. There is no provision in the Polish legal system that states that the bank cannot come up with an offer to the client about the withdrawal. That's the perspective here. It also referred to a judgment to be delivered on a case which is pending in respect of a preliminary ruling or a reference for a preliminary ruling, which was lodged by the District Court in Warsaw. I am talking here about case C-260/18, in which we look forward to the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which may be in accordance with the opinion of the Advocate General, as is the case in most cases. It must be made very clear that there is no consent to any abusive clauses, to any violation of the law. The President has declared this from the beginning, and we have spoken of it in the process of this bill. Where there is a breach of the law, there is a possibility of interference by the court, it would be good if, in this pro-consumer trend, such a decision were also issued by the Court of Justice relating to what was expressed in Council Directive 93/13/EEC referred to here. On the other hand, when you say that the law is unnecessary, here it was well said also about the Conversion Fund, it could be said: in this case I do not speak, but it could also be said: who knows if this decision to delete at this moment the Conversion Fund is not a good justification for waiting for the general ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the interpretation of pro-consumers, where we can have various solutions for the settlement of individual cases which are brought to court. If the bill is to have any electoral context today, I will say this: the 2015 election campaign, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. Who in the election campaign took up the topic of franchise? The Civic Platform. It is only that, as was well said here and in the context of the questions, and in the statements, it was also in the statements of the President, the act was constructed, the original one, dated 9 October 2015. And this is where you have to hit your chest, that we have the number of requests that President Maciejewski spoke about. I'm not saying it's nothing, because I never would have dared say it. Because if we're talking about a thousand or that kind of size, about all the contracts that have been concluded, she's doing her part. Only that we say: an aggregate of 600 million PLN. Let's unblock it. The state should say from this tribune: yes, we support this because it can help Poles, I think this help is necessary. There were also false arguments here, because there was an argument concerning the Conversion Fund and that there were doubts about European law and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had not spoken in this regard. Excuse me, but let me remind you that there is a very clear opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office of March this year, in which it is shown that there is no contradiction with European law in this respect and there is no danger as to the criteria for state aid. So please use reliable arguments, because this argument is not based on truth. As far as pro-consumer projects are concerned, the reflection on these projects does not end with the President's Chancellery. I am absolutely open, and I say this on behalf of the President's Office, and also personally of the President, who is extremely involved in pro-consumer matters. All projects, initiatives that will appear from any club, group of Members, or social initiatives that will go to the Office of the National Council for Development, Local Government and Civil Initiatives or the Office for Law and Government, will be recognized. Please note that this is a trend of pro-consumer presidential laws. Not so long ago - for which thank you - the High Chamber has amended the Civil Code. We have eliminated one of the exceptions to the ban on anatolyzm, the possibility of charging interest on late interest, only because this applies to a bank, an institution of this kind. This change was made as a result of the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland. The President also supports, in public, the request for legal solutions which would consist in introducing solutions commonly referred to as: keys for debt. Such a situation, a possible return on immovable property, which is secured by a residential loan, results in a debt relief. I am convinced that such work will also take place in the High House. If this does not find its finale in this term of office, I am convinced that this initiative will continue in the next parliamentary term, and I am counting on all options to support Members, regardless of what the configuration of this parliament will be, because the President of the Republic of Poland, I can assure you, will always opt for such pro-consumer actions to support, and in this respect hopes for cooperation. In the context of the ruling of the TSUE, the question was whether there had been an address to the President's Registry, including the President's question. I didn't notice that coming. Of course, press articles from one of the press titles or comments on this matter are familiar to us. I draw attention to one very important distinction: if we are talking about the direct financial consequences of the law, these are the consequences that arise immediately. If we are talking about the situation of decisions that will take place in individual cases, even with a consumer-friendly solution, these questions, this is not the result that will come from day to day. It's not that kind of effect. When assessing the impact of one of the projects, we talked about that they would amount directly to PLN 50 billion. Here you have to take a responsible attitude. We cannot accept the effects that would lead to the destabilisation of the banking system in the pro-consumer movement. The banking system is the backbone of the entire economy. It is also important to be aware of the data that appear in public space as regards the communications from the Financial Supervision Authority or the position of the Financial Stability Committee. We know that there are banks in which a curator appeared in the form of a bank guarantee fund. ♪ From these things ♪ There's no abstraction either. These issues need to be discussed with a view to also any circumstances relating to the whole system. I was talking about abusive clauses. I support their vote. There is no consent to this - it is absolutely unacceptable - that banks in contracts with customers, in patterns in these speeches or in the regulations apply abusive clauses. We must be very consistent in this. The law firm of the President of the Republic of Poland cooperates with the financial spokesman or the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. We will continue to do so. As part of the club's statements, the general question was whether there was a sense of procedure over the law due to the upcoming ruling of the TSUE. Absolutely that's the point. I think I've been trying to convince you to do that. Thank you very much for the votes that have emerged in this discussion, even those that I disagree with. Once again, I call against the positive effects of this law. It's a bill that's okay. There was an expression here that it didn't work. That's absolutely not true, you have to categorically deny it. There are no risks associated with the entry into force of this law, and there are thousands of Poles who can benefit from it. Therefore, I am consistently asking the High House to support the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u608	Thank you. The committee rapporteur, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u609	I don't want to repeat the arguments, but I think those questions that were addressed to me... I'd like to say an elementary thing. Parliament, the parliamentary majority, is a political base for the government. I haven't heard in 20 years that any political constellation should come to a situation where, contrary to the position of its government, it starts its work and does its job without looking at anything. That's how it works, unfortunately. We have taken up work on this project, which has been positively assessed by the government. I would like to address the question of why we did not take other projects. I don't know why they didn't get the green light, but I think I can afford to say with a little risk that it's because the opposition's authority is so high that it's taken seriously - please don't take it as a joke. - statements that have been made in the past and are recorded. The old saying says to lie, you have to have a good memory. You can use it very much today, you can use it on us too. All this is written in transcripts, recordings, on the Internet. What are we talking about? We - in order to obtain funds for social projects - said so: banks are not so rich, they are not so fat, but they have some of this money, so let us introduce the bank tax. A great 2 billion PLN. What was the fuss? Who was against it, and why? Whoever spoke out loud - and it's all written down - that after all, Kowalski will pay for it, the banks will raise the commission, reduce the interest rate on contributions, increase the loans. Yes, you said it with passion. Now you're putting together 20 billion projects, 18 billion projects. Who's gonna get that money from who? Will the shareholders give up their profits? [[Voice from the room: VAT.]] I don't want to develop it, I'm done. It was the same... I say, without endangering myself, because it was discussed and I don't want to develop it, following the words, because the Court probably... [[Voice from the hall: Record profits were in 2018.]] And good, because since they took money, on spreads especially, some practices were actually really scandalous, especially the unfair ones, because mostly spreads, but not only. These are legal issues, they will be resolved, but without much knowledge and experience, it can be assumed that banks, acting on a market where there is some competition, but the world is closed... Unfortunately, it is that macro-economic situations, rates, inflation translates into all of this. These are trials. There's no mercy here. The money on the wallet is born and ends. I'm just reminding you to tone it down a little bit and make it real. That doesn't sound right. Nobody's defending banks. The most important are voters, citizens, but you can't, especially with such statements on your account, such views, pretend to be Greek today. The views can be changed, but the firmness of views... the wind changes depending on the position. I am sorry and wish my colleagues from the opposition that they will not lack this reflection here. I'd like to refer to the conversion. Once again, I'll remind you of that, because there's one more detail that's close to me... I have to admit, I haven't been able to convince it, but with iron logic, I'm going to postulate it for consideration. You can think about it. Well, in the project that you adopted in order to get this little aid that we are now increasing, one of the three conditions concerning the amount of income per person, the indicator, the ratio of instalments to family income and the third circumstances - the unemployment of one of the spouses had to be fulfilled. It's not a conjunction, it's an alternative. I mean, according to what we have here on the surface, marriage to two kids who have income of 6,000. Wow, he's not gonna get this help, despite the improvement. For this, your fairy tale heroes, a marriage without children, in which one of the spouses earns 30,000. zł, and the other one is unemployed. And that's okay? How could this have gone through? Yes, Madam President, I am sorry to say, I may be called a socialist, but this is not fair, this is elementary. But they say, let's not do shashor, so many people have taken. It's just that times have changed. We make mistakes, too, and I don't like everything, even with us, but we only have to help those who have a hard time, not those who are cool. I'm sorry about the emotional words, but that's also what I said on the committee... [[Don't repeat yourself.]] A good repetition isn't bad. I think this bill will be supported by you too. You're gonna support this. I can't imagine it would be any different. The price, however, would be the price of shame. I don't believe it just because it's a bill that's helpful. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 9 minutes yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u610	Thank you, sir. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. About whose speech? [[Your Member and the Minister.]] But you filed that application before he performed... [[How the Minister acted.]] You filed this motion for corrigendum before the Minister was present. [[But now it's...]] Good. Please, one minute. Just don't exceed that time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u611	I am surprised at the rigor that Members can be insulted. In replying to the Minister's question, whether the bill on the support of borrowers was submitted before the campaign, I will say: yes, because that was the mode, but it happened that the Swiss central bank on 15 January freed the Swiss franc's course against the euro, and it was immediately. It was aid, 600 million, and we have prepared some solutions. We say that you have failed to do so - and the Minister's accusation is incomprehensible - because there have been other declarations made, and at the last moment, you have done so by throwing the tape. I am speaking to Mr Nobleman, and this is also a correction for the franc course: in 2006 it was your government that encouraged the risk of the franchise. To Mr Cymanski: [[♪ The bell ♪]] The discussion was about the opinion of the Foreign Minister. I'm not interested, I wasn't talking about the Sejm Analysis Bureau's opinion. I was talking about refusal, and in this case it is the argument that counts for Members, not the analysis of the Parliamentary Office. That's the process of legal acts.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u612	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u613	Minister! According to the estimates made in the framework of the work on this law at the President's office, how did you estimate the overall scale of the inability to repay citizens' debts? What part of this debt will be able to be restructured or repaid as part of the solutions contained in the recommended submission?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u614	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club PSL - UED, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the presidential bill amending the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and the Act on corporate income tax, prints 1863 and 3247. The bill we are debating today concerns the commitment made by President Andrzej Duda to the French in the 2015 presidential campaign. The first reading of this project took place almost 2 years ago, i.e. 28.09.2017, and it mainly concerns so-called. Franc loans granted by certain banks in the years 2005-2007, i.e. 12 years ago. The project is therefore very late, although in its content it extends the possibility of assistance to borrowers, including: - loosens the requirements imposed on borrowers to obtain aid, - increases the amount of aid - support to 72 000. for 3 years, - extends the aid period to 36 months, - lay down detailed rules on banks and imposes obligations on lenders banks, - provides for the granting of a loan to cover the remainder of the debt and partial remission of the debt as well as the restructuring of the debt. Today we must definitely say that the proposed aid is very late and that this is not what the borrowers themselves expected. Each borrower has a completely different credit situation after 12 years - let's call it currency, although the loan has never been paid in foreign currency. The project takes too lightly the responsibilities of the banks that led the borrowers into a franchise trap. Not all banks operating in Poland have deceived their customers and all risks have been passed on to borrowers. It was only some banks that misconstrued the borrowers, encouraged the use of these loans, and even determined that they did not meet the condition of their credit standing in respect of gold loans. Since the project is very late, it does not meet the expectations of borrowers and does not meet the commitment of the President of the Republic of Poland, the PSL - UED Club will not support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u615	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of items 19, 20 and 21 of the agenda: 19. First reading of the government draft Tax Order (Print No 3517). 20. First reading of the government bill on the Ombudsman's Taxpayer's Rights (print No 3516). 21. First reading of the government draft law Provisions introducing the Tax Order and the Act on the Ombudsman's Rights of the Taxpayer (Print No 3518). The justification of the bill will be presented by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Leszek Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u616	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting three draft laws. The first is the Government's draft Tax Order, print No 3517, which is part of the package of laws, whose assumption is to balance the interests of the fiscal and the taxpayer. The principles of the bill submitted and the original draft of the Act, prepared by the General Tax Law Codification Commission, have been the subject of work carried out in the Ministry of Finance since October 2017. The work on the new Tax Order focused on improving the existing rules, in particular on eliminating those malfunctioning, and adding new solutions to this act. Each provision has been analysed, taking into account how it will affect not only the rights of the taxpayer but also the exercise of the powers of the tax authorities. The tax authority must have real instruments for levying and collecting taxes without violating the rights of the taxpayer. The proposed act is intended to replace the current Tax Order. Tax law is developing very dynamically. The various phenomena and processes that are the subject of its regulation are constantly evolving. Tax legislation must keep pace with changing social and economic environments. This law has been in force for more than 20 years and has been amended more than 150 times at that time. Numerous amendments to the existing rules and judgments of the administrative courts and the Constitutional Tribunal show that the readability of the tax constitution, which is the Tax Order, has been affected. The proposal presented to the High House is fully in line with the new challenges. The new ordination respects the interests of the taxpayer and the treasury through institutions to protect the rights of the taxpayer in its relations with the tax authorities and institutions to enhance the efficiency and efficiency of the dimension and collection of taxes. The protection of the rights of the taxpayer is served, among others. general principles of tax law, e.g. the principle of information and support, the principle of presumption of integrity of the obliged person, the principle of legitimate expectations. An important instrument to protect the rights of the taxpayer will be the consensual forms of tax settlement, e.g. tax agreement, mediation, cooperation programme, consultation of the tax consequences of transactions. The project also contains a number of other solutions to protect the taxpayer in dealings with the tax administration. It is worth mentioning here: the limitation period for a tax liability; the prohibition of ruling against a taxpayer at the stage of the primary proceedings; measures to combat the length of proceedings; the right to correct the declaration before the tax procedure is terminated; the possibility of not appealing the decision to the court; longer time limits for appeal and complaint. Improving the efficiency of the implementation of tax obligations will enable, inter alia,: institution of limitation of the size and collection of tax obligations; simplified procedure; elimination of proceedings concerning amounts of tax up to PLN 50; principle of cooperation between the taxpayer and the tax authority to the extent resulting from tax legislation; dissemination of electronic communications in contacts with the tax authority. The project introduces a number of new institutions that do not exist in the new tax ordination. The most important of these are the cooperation programme, addressed to entities of significant economic importance; the tax agreement between the tax authority and the taxable person concluded in case of difficult doubts as to the facts of the case; mediation; the procedure for consulting the tax effects of transactions; a catalogue of the general principles of tax law applicable to the whole of tax law; the correction of declarations in the course of tax proceedings; the restoration of a material and legal period; the remission of the tax before the payment date; the prohibition of ruling against the taxpayer by the first instance authority; the general information on substantive changes to the tax legislation. The project also includes dozens of completely rebuilt institutions included in the existing tax ordination. This is a proposal for a completely new act, taking into account proven in practice, well-functioning regulation of general tax law. The project also includes the provisions currently contained in the Act on the Rules of Registration and Identification of taxpayers and payers. The project will result in strengthening the taxpayer's position in relations with the body, increasing the trust of taxpayers in the tax authority and faster, more efficient handling of tax matters. In presenting the above, I propose that the project be directed to further work. Mrs. Marshal! Since, as I understand, we are working together on three draft laws, I am still pleased to present a brief information on the draft law on the Ombudsman of Taxpayers' Rights. This is print 3516. This proposal provides for the establishment of an institution for the protection of the rights of the taxpayer to increase citizens' sense of security in their dealings with tax authorities. The new institution should contribute to the development of more transparent standards for taxpayers in the functioning of the tax administration. The draft law aims to strengthen the position of the taxpayer and therefore requires the creation of a specialised, decentralised institution that will comprehensively assist anyone who applies to the Ombudsman. In practice, it is in particular about strengthening the position of taxpayers who, in the event of a dispute with the tax authority, do not have the means to avail themselves of professional consultancy services, legal firms. It will be the task of the Ombudsman's institution to assist all taxpayers in the event of a threat to their rights, with the proposal assuming that the Ombudsman's direct assistance will mainly be addressed to taxable persons not engaged in business activities. In the case of traders, the Ombudsman will be obliged to cooperate in the protection of their rights with the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. This will further increase the pressure on tax authorities to respect business rights. The establishment of an institution for the Ombudsman's rights is of particular importance in the context of changes in the tax system arising inter alia. with a dynamically changing legal and economic environment as well as the need to implement EU directives. In particular, the Ombudsman, who is a high-level tax specialist, will uphold the principles of trust in public authority and the principle of impartiality, equal treatment, fair treatment, the principles of respect for the legitimate interests of taxpayers and the principles of the rationality of the action of tax authorities. The bill includes, among others, a simple catalogue of the rights of the taxable person which can be regarded as a specific card of the rights of the taxable person. This is a simple language catalogue of basic rights resulting from tax regulation. Such a solution is a normative expression of the ombudsman's idea that the right should be formulated in an accessible, understandable way and its application should be used to shape relationships based on trust between citizens and public authorities. The compilation of a simple, normative catalogue of taxpayers' rights with the establishment of an institution for the protection of taxpayers' rights gives comprehensive, real support to citizens in fulfilling their tax obligations. The draft law grants the Ombudsman numerous strong powers to carry out his statutory tasks effectively. In order to protect the rights of the taxable person, the Ombudsman will, for example, be able, first, to request the initiation of a tax procedure, to bring an action before the administrative court, including a cassation complaint to the Supreme Administrative Court or to participate in proceedings before an administrative authority or court. Secondly, it will be able to object to the final decision of the tax authority or to require the repeal or amendment of the final decision under the rules laid down in the provisions of the Tax Order. Thirdly, request the competent authorities to suspend enforcement or enforcement proceedings against the taxpayer. Fourthly, a request is made on the basis of the provisions of the Tax Order for a general review of tax legislation or tax clarification in cases of serious interpretation doubts. Fifthly, it will be able to apply to the competent authorities for a legislative initiative or to issue or amend other legislative acts in tax matters. The Ombudsman will keep the President of the Council of Ministers informed by the end of April each year of his activity and of the state of compliance with the rights of the taxpayer. This information will be published in the Public Information Bulletin on the website of the Ministry of Finance. It will also be the duty of the Ombudsman to draw up an annual report summing up the results of the analysis of general and individual tax laws and the analysis of the way in which tax authorities deal with complaints and requests. This report will be published each time in the Public Information Bulletin. The Ombudsman will carry out his tasks with the help of the Ombudsman's office. In addition to the office, there will be deputy spokespersons, representatives of the Ombudsman's area, in order to provide taxpayers throughout the country with the widest possible and universal access to assistance from the Ombudsman's institution. The special distribution of field workers will be decided by the Ombudsman, taking into account needs. The Ombudsman will be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers for a 6-year term. The candidate for the Ombudsman will be selected in an open, competitive recruitment. The candidate for the Ombudsman shall present to the President of the Council of Ministers a minister competent for public finances of no more than two candidates fulfilling strict competence criteria. The same person will only be able to be a spokesman for one term. The draft law contains a closed and narrow catalogue of the reasons for the appeal of the Ombudsman, which guarantees his independence. In addition, in order to ensure impartiality, objectivity of the function performed, the person in question will not be able to carry out other work, other occupations, including business activities, except for teaching, research, research and teaching tasks in higher education. The Ombudsman will not be a member of a political party, a trade union or a public activity that cannot be reconciled with the dignity of the office occupied. The proposal provides for the appointment of the Ombudsman for the first term of office no later than 1 April 2020. By submitting the above to the High House, I propose that the submitted proposal be submitted for further work. The third draft is the draft law Law introducing the Tax Order and the Act on the Ombudsman's Rights, print No 3518. It aims to maintain the coherence of the bill Tax Order and the bill on the Ombudsman's Rights. The replacement of the current Tax Order by the new law requires the introduction of adjustments to tax laws, non-tax laws, which are subject to the arrangements provided for in the Tax Order. Adaptation changes are also necessary in connection with the Taxpayer's Rights Act. The project shall equip the Ombudsman with the legal tools necessary to carry out the statutory tasks and ensure harmonious cooperation with other bodies. The project provides for the introduction of a mechanism for providing local tax support to local tax authorities in the application of local tax legislation and tax legislation. This support will be provided by the National Tax Information, which is planned to create a tax competence centre for local taxes. The Centre's task will be to assist local tax authorities in the handling of individual cases by providing explanations and carrying out procedural replacements without entering their competence. Support will be granted only at the request of the local tax authority. In addition, the project provides for strengthening the procedural position of the local tax authorities by giving them the power to challenge decisions and provisions of the local review colleges before the administrative courts. The project also grants these authorities the right to challenge the interpretation of the individual finance minister amending or repealing the individual interpretation of the local tax authority. The project will ensure the smooth application of the current new Tax Order law during the transitional period. The project will also have a positive impact on the handling of individual cases by local tax authorities. The draft sets the date of entry into force of the Act on the Ombudsman's Rights on 1 January 2020 and the Tax Order on 1 January 2021. In presenting the above, I propose that the submitted project be submitted for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u617	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, the speech will be presented by Maria Zub. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u618	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning a package of government billings including the draft Tax Order Act, print No 3517, draft law Provisions introducing the Tax Order Act and the Act on the Taxpayer's Rights Ombudsman, print No 3518, and draft law on the Taxpayer's Rights Ombudsman, print No 3516. The current Tax Order, despite numerous amendments, does not follow the direction of the transformation of economic processes, leading to fiscal fraud due to numerous negative procedures in the tax system. To e.g. to reduce tax avoidance, in particular in international trade, or to be able to effectively seal the tax system, there is a need to change the rules in the Tax Order, which will keep up with the changes in economic processes and eliminate the negative effects on the state budget. The provisions of the new Tax Order introduce into the Polish legal order regulations resulting also from the guidelines of the European Union for the exchange of tax information, the sealing of the tax system, transparency in the granting of tax preferences and public aid and the like. The European Commission, recommending in 2012 that solutions be put in place to counter aggressive tax planning practices leading to tax avoidance, already pointed to the obligation for Poland to adopt, as a member country, legal solutions adapted, among others. to the national situation ensuring the fight against tax fraud. The Government of the Civic Platform and the PSL had a duty to inform the Commission within 3 years. Of course, the government has not taken any action in this regard. Changes in ordination also force the fast-growing digitalisation of tax procedures and the growing electronic communication that improves contacts with the taxpayer. Taxpayers themselves are also waiting for changes in the Tax Order, mainly due to the numerous, often controversial judicial case law of the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union and due to the rapidly growing number of individual tax rulings. The authors of the draft Tax Order propose the introduction into the new legal act of the existing Tax Order, which functions well, are effective and tested, which have been developed and improved over the years by case law and practice. The solutions proposed by the Government in the draft Tax Order to the High House have two main objectives: firstly, to protect the rights of the taxpayer in his relations with the tax authorities, and secondly, to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of tax collection. The draft of the ordination contains legal solutions to mitigate excessive rigour of tax ordination towards the taxpayer. In a situation where more and more new legal instruments are emerging in trade not always to improve turnover, the government proposes to introduce a number of mechanisms and procedures to ensure that tax authorities can be more effective in enforcing statutory tax obligations in order to ensure that their tax revenues are received into the budget. In view of the increasingly complex and complex economic and social phenomena, a new Tax Order is needed in order to introduce effective tax regulation. Globalisation of the market and increasing cross-border trade foster the development of increasing tax optimisation, including cross-border ones. The tax optimisation process significantly reduces tax revenue. In order to protect budgetary revenue and meet the requirements imposed on Member States by the European Union, the Government proposes in the draft Tax Order to maintain the existing provisions setting out the general clause against tax avoidance. It proposes that, while maintaining the scope of its application so far, following minor changes in certain detailed arrangements, the new legislation should be adopted in the current wording. In Polish tax law, the clause has only been in force since 16 July 2016, although the European Commission already drew attention to the risks associated with tax evasion in its recommendations of 6 December 2012, and then recommended that the Polish Government introduce a tax avoidance clause. Also after the audit carried out on 17 April 2015 by the Supreme Audit Chamber, which issued the opinion that the lack of a clause in Polish law is the reason for the lack of tightness of the Polish tax system. At that time, in the audit protocol, NIK presented the amount of corporation tax revenue in respect of gross domestic product in the years 2008 to 2013 and showed that the receipts in those years were decreasing from year to year. In 2008, it was 2.72% , and in 2013 - only 1.79%. In the description of this phenomenon, NIK noted that the decrease could have been caused by the dissemination of tax avoidance measures. In the same document, it showed that CIT revenues were also falling. At that time, the House requested the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL to implement solutions to counter the declining income tax base. For the first time, the clause in Polish law was introduced on 1 January 2003, but the Constitutional Tribunal ruled by judgment of 11 May 2004 that it did not meet the constitutional standards of decent legislation and repealed it. The general anti-tax avoidance clause proposed in this proposal complies with the requirements laid down in Directive 2016/1164 of the European Council of 12 July 2016. The provisions of that Directive shall be implemented by Member States by 1 January 2019. The general anti-tax avoidance clause introduced in the Tax Order ensures equal treatment of taxpayers on the market and the implementation of the constitutional principle of equal taxation at both the level of formation and the application of the law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice requests further work on the Tax Order Act, on the Introductory Law and on the Act on the Ombudsman's Rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u619	Thank you. Mr Janusz Cichoń will be the first speaker on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u620	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club in relation to this set of laws. In fact, I would like to focus on the issue of the Tax Order. It is worth saying here, first of all, that for the first time in the history of work on tax laws, the formula of the codification committee was used. By referring to the General Tax Law Codification Commission, we considered that the new Tax Order must be based on consensus of doctrine, tax advisors, actually representing taxpayers, tax administrations and NSA judges. The composition of the codification committee was a proof of the purity of the intentions of the then government in this matter: five representatives of science, judges, advisors and only three representatives of the Minister of Finance. At the time, we assumed that the codification of the general tax legislation would enable two objectives to be met, which have already been mentioned - it is about protecting the rights of the taxpayer at the stage of the implementation of tax obligations, but also about increasing the efficiency and efficiency of the implementation of tax obligations. The codification Commission, established in 2014, prepared a directional assumption for the ordination in October 2015, if I remember correctly, and these assumptions provided the basis for the preparation of specific legal standards of the Tax Order, with justification, the Introductory Law. This project was closed, prepared by the codification committee in October 2017. It should be stressed that this draft, drawn up by the codification committee, was in line with the fundamental principles which were at its source, namely to balance the public interest and interests of the taxpayer, and that the proposed regulations were based on the presumption that the taxpayer is fair and consciously not seeking to infringe tax law, and that the legislator's duty is to legally define the rights of the taxpayer, to guarantee compliance with them, to introduce legal instruments to enforce these rights and, at the same time, to introduce tax obligations. This draft codification commission was forwarded to the Finance Minister, as I said, in October 2017, but the Council of Ministers adopted the new Tax Order only on 28 May 2019, with numerous modifications to the solutions proposed by the Codification Board. Unfortunately, today we can clearly say that the project of the new Tax Order ended when this project was transferred to the building of the Ministry of Finance. I have no objection to the legislative changes that have arisen here, but unfortunately we have a lot of substantive changes here, which in fact must be regarded as damaging, even destabilising balance between the public interest and the taxpayer. If we looked at the various stages of the legislative work, we would see that there are two sources of this destabilisation - the departments of the Ministry of Finance, above all the departments of the National Tax Administration, and the particular interests of some resorts. Many legal institutions proposed by the codification committee have been removed. Yeah, for example. there is a limitation period for the protection of legitimate expectations or the adjustment of the tax avoidance clause substantially from a balance point of view. A large part of the legislation has been transferred from the previous ordination to the new ordination, despite the clear opposition of the codification committee and other proposals for its wording, in the course of the work on the ordination already in the Ministry of Finance. Yeah, for example. is when it comes to reporting patterns. This is an example, I don't have more time to discuss these issues in detail. But at the same time, other solutions were introduced. An example here is the spokesperson of the rights of the taxpayer, indicated by the finance minister, the head of the KAS. This is proof of how you treat the balance in the relationship of the state - the taxpayer, how the government of the PiS and the finance minister approach it. A dispute with the tax administration will be settled by an official appointed by the finance minister, because it is difficult to talk about the Ombudsman here, and the reasons for the interference are purely political. For completely incomprehensible reasons, I believe that solutions such as centralisation of tax rulings in the field of local taxes by the National Revenue Information or a three-year limitation period have been abandoned. In our view, he is back to the Tax Order prepared by the Codification Commission. Finishing...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u621	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel will take over the remaining part of his speech on behalf of the club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u622	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As the Tax Order contains a number of provisions governing the rights and obligations of the taxpayer, let me remind you that the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition has introduced a draft Taxpayer's Rights Charter Act. Having a card is an international standard, recommended by the OECD, the European Union. The Taxpayer's Rights Charter strengthens the protection of these rights by consolidating them in a single document and also strengthens the taxpayer's sense of security. This Taxpayer's Rights Charter is needed in Poland. In particular, if the law were to become the draft of ordination today, it would be necessary. Chapters concerning the rights and obligations of the obliged person and the rights to information and support have been removed from the draft ordination. I don't know why. Although there are various rights and obligations, why have these chapters been removed? The grate protects the rights of the taxpayer both at the stage of creation and application of the law, ordination - only the application of the law. Besides, please, if the taxpayer is to read his rights and take into his hands a legal act that contains 800 articles, he will immediately postpone it, he will simply not read it. The Taxpayer's Rights Charter has a completely different character. It can also be said that there are not many present in the charter in the draft ordination, e.g. there is no prohibition on the use of illegally collected materials, no right to pay taxes of an amount not higher than that required by the legislation, no right to remedy the damage caused by the tax authorities, no right to impose sanctions in accordance with the principle of proportionality. There was a rule in the ordination that was deleted, only it was deleted, which prohibited abuse by tax authorities. He was, and he's gone. It was argued that the tax authorities did not abuse the law. Ladies and gentlemen, if they're not abusing him, what's to be afraid of? But you don't have to be an expert on tax law to know that's not true. So these are just examples because of the short time I have left. Today, the Taxpayer's Rights Charter is needed, and the shortcomings and shortcomings of the Tax Order project make this need even greater. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u623	Thank you, sir. One Member joined the question. So I close the list. Mr Janusz Cichoń, PO-KO. Two minutes, sir. [[Your Marshal...]] I've already closed the list. I'm sorry, sir. I didn't see him turn himself in... [[But I volunteered.]] Okay, sign in. That's what always happens. Sign up. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u624	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One question. Namely, I would like to know precisely what substantive changes have been made to the new Tax Order since it was transferred to the Ministry of Finance by the General Tax Law Codification Commission. I am aware that you are unable to present them at the moment, but I ask for such information in writing. This is a summary of the changes, and I will repeat this once again, which was introduced into the Tax Order, which was presented by the General Tax Law Code Commission in October 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u625	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, PO-KO, will ask another question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u626	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are dealing with a new ordination, which is why I wanted to ask the Minister what are the actual costs of introducing a new tax ordination. And, of course, was this vacathio legis, which suddenly appeared, extended? However, will it help to implement this law, or will the National Tax Administration be able to do so in time? Because so far, as we have seen, this has been going quite hard for the current minister, and earlier for the Deputy Minister who is looking after the National Tax Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u627	Thank you very much, sir. This and earlier questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Leszek Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u628	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions. Mr Cichoń's request will be met in writing. As regards the question of the Taxpayer's Laws, it is worth noting that, indeed, those provisions, which were declarative in nature, pointing to certain general objectives relating to tax law, have been transferred to a separate law and these general principles are, but have been reinforced by the Ombudsman's institutions and the entire office, which support the Ombudsman's actions. So the solution, which is weak in the sense that there is no whole instrument to be applied in practice, has been improved in this sense, that today some general principles have been described in the form of the functioning of an institution that is guarding these solutions. The Ombudsman is the institution whose objective is precisely to ensure a balance between the interests of the taxpayer and the interests of the tax payer. It is also worth remembering other doubts. This balance that Professor Nykiel referred to here is extremely important, but it is also important in the context of questions about the role of the Tax Order or tax solutions. In particular, maintaining the balance requires that the interests of the taxpayer are balanced by the interests of the fiscal, i.e. we cannot do so that the Tax Order will be addressed primarily to citizens, and individual rules will allow for increased risk of fraud in the conduct of business or irregularities arising from the possibility of tax fraud. I have the impression that these doubts have arisen before. If we look at the letter from Minister Cichocki to the Minister of Finance dated 2 June 2015, when, as head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister's Council of Ministers in the government, Prime Minister Kopacz asked questions about this draft Tax Order, about the establishment of the Tax Order at the time it was mentioned earlier, i.e. during the planning of these assumptions, Mr Cichocki, the Head of the Chancellery, in this document, first of all pointed out that these assumptions do not fall into the problem of the tax avoidance clause or the issue of the procedure and the reference of the Tax Order to the laws on tax control, criminal proceedings, the procedure related to the activities in the organised criminal group. In fact, as I understand it, at this time, like today, it was important to strengthen citizens' confidence on the one hand that the laws of ordination allow this balance to be maintained, and on the other hand that it cannot be such that it is an opportunity for criminals' interests to simply win. The purpose of the seal is, in fact, to take the final course so that healthy competition, the ability to operate honest entrepreneurs and to compete with those dishonest ones are not doomed to failure. In this respect, the changes we are talking about, which, of course, we will be happy to present in writing, are intended to ensure that, on the one hand, taxpayers have the support of the Ombudsman's institutions and, on the other hand, that the Tax Order operates in such a way as not to forget that the interests of the tax payer also matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u629	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u630	Minister! In the end, should not a standard be introduced that costs and responsibilities for financial system control tools should be borne by the State and not by the citizen? I am referring to both the cost of introducing new technical solutions and, for example, the cost of introducing new technical solutions. to be responsible for the tax offences of the counterparty. In a sense, the implementation of such an approach is the reimbursement of the purchase and exchange of fiscal cash registers and some legal changes have been adopted in recent years. However, it should be a principle that the costs of the fiscal system and its changes are financed by tax revenue and responsibility for the consequences of the infringement is borne by the perpetrator and by the authorities and entities with the tools and powers to prosecute it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u631	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the government draft law Tax Order in print No 3517, the government draft law on the Ombudsman of Taxpayers' Rights in print No 3516 and the government draft law introducing the Tax Order and the Act on the Ombudsman of Taxpayer's Rights in print No 3518 to the Public Finance Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 3 July this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I don't see any more calls, so I'm closing the list. We begin with Ewa Tomaszewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u632	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This year we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of the creation of an international network of youth economic education organisations. The first facility was established in the United States in 1919. Today, millions of young people around the world are developing their entrepreneurial skills. The Youth Entrepreneurship Foundation in Poland is the third foundation in the world and the first in the European Union in terms of the number of students participating in the projects. So far, over 7 million students from all over Poland have participated in the program of the Foundation. In the school year 2018/2019, some 350 thousand participated. students. About 40,000 co-operate with the foundation. volunteers from various companies and institutions. They are as big entities as the Social Insurance Institution and the Polish State Railways and as small as the private photo and hairdressing facility. Youth participates in programs: From penny to zloty, My finances, Company management, Open company, Youth enterprise. The day of entrepreneurship - a programme to make it easier for young people to choose their profession - took place for the 15th time. This event has been under the patronage of the President of the Republic of Poland for years. It is worth supporting such initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u633	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u634	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a statement on the uprising of the 25th Infantry Regiment of the Home Army on Piotrków soil. During World War II, Piotrkowska's land witnessed many events that disappeared in collective memory, and today it is functioning only on pages of few historical studies. Inevitably, heroes leave, who might be like them and witness to them. One such event is undoubtedly the creation in mid-July 1944 of 25. Army Infantry Regiment. The name was not a coincidence: in Piotrków before the war, the 25th infantry regiment was stationed, which was famous for the battles with the Bolsheviks in 1920, and later in the September campaign in 1939 he fought in the composition 7. The Infantry Division near Częstochowa. The unit was formed from the subordinate commander of the Kedywo district of Łódzkie AK Capt. Adam Trybus has troops of the Piotrkowski inspector. This was part of the implementation of the shares of the Storm. The concentration of the regiment took place in Barkowice Wetrych, and at that time the unit counted less than 600 soldiers. During its several months of existence, the branch has undergone several reorganisations, adapting to the changing situation in its area of activity. On August 16, 1944, the unit fought a large guerrilla battle with two groups of German soldiers and gendarmes in the vicinity of the hills bearing the designation on military maps: 285, and by the local population called the Devil Mountain. Into an ambush organized by Lt. Kazimierz Załęski ps. A few dozen Germans came by. A criminal expedition of nearly 400 soldiers was sent to help this group. These forces came to 360 guerrillas from the 25th National Army regiment under Captain's command. Hilary Moraczewski ps. Morus. They were forced to retreat and lost dozens of soldiers. The unit was active until November 1944, in the meantime carrying out with various happiness a series of bravado actions, such as the attack on the Slucze in September 1944, the fight against the Niemojewski Mountains and many others. In the apogee of its existence, the regiment had about 1,250 soldiers. In November 1944, the regiment was deformed for reasons of loss. The balance of the individual's activities is difficult to grasp. It is estimated that on the side of the Germans as a result of the regiment's actions there were over 1000 killed and about 400 wounded soldiers. Their own losses are only about 120 soldiers. About the 25th fight. The National Army Infantry regiment today resembles the obelisk in Barkowice Wetrych and a monument on the road from Sielpi Wielki to Horses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u635	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, to make another statement. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u636	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the last few months in Rybnik in Silesia, local or regional newspapers could read such titles: "The inhabitants protested against the construction of the Paruszowiec mine, "Protest against the construction of a mine in Rybnik on the tetanus plant, "The world understood that energy was pouring out of the sky, and in Rybnik they wanted to build a mine, "or "Silesia" does not want to feed. 'We're not slaves to coal. More damage than good. These titles appeared in connection with the protest of the inhabitants of Rybnik in the context of the planned construction of the mine by a private investor. I would like to remind you that Rybnik is a city on the rights of a county that lives over 130 thousand. inhabitants, who are within the reach of the largest coal company, the Polish Mining Group, mainly the ROW mine, within which the Chwałowice and Jankowice mines operate. Regardless of this, the Rybnik power plant, owned by the Polish Energy Group, has a capacity of 1800 MW, built from eight power blocks of 225 MW, which of course consumes more than 3 million tons of coal per year. To highlight this protest and the fairness of the behaviour of the inhabitants I wanted to say that in recent times it has turned out that Rybnik is in the top ranking of Polish cities with the most polluted air. According to a report from the World Health Organisation in 2016, Rybnik was classified as the fourth of the most polluted cities in the European Union. It is very important in the context of the operation of the city authorities and the demand for clean air by the inhabitants of Rybnik. I followed these protests, of course, as a matter of urgency in accordance with Article. 152 to convene a meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. The idea is to have the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Environment appear on it and tell the residents what is going on, what is the state of construction of this mine, whether it fits into the programme of operation of coal mining in Poland, who is interested in this coal, or the coal power plant in Rybnik, which is to be modernised - it is said that it will be modernised blocks for gas - is interested in this coal. Of course - also about the process related to environmental decision, environmental report, for this mine, how many such proposals have been found and what is important for this city, how the government plans to support local authorities, residents in the context of the clean air fight programme. Well, what does it turn out to be? The minister came in properly unprepared. He said it's not my concern, it's a private investor, there's a procedure going on. On the other hand, we have heard that the process is advanced when it comes to making environmental decisions, so it is not appropriate to talk about it. It is not even right to say how many proposals for this study made by the local government. However, no one has said what specific measures the government wants to allocate to combat smog under the Clean Air programme. But surprisingly, the European Union is protesting and threatening to take 8 billion PLN for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, it is outrageous that we hear the words of this government: we simply listen to Poles. The Prime Minister, not so long ago, on May 12th, said: we want to be really close, as close as possible to Poles. When he moved from Warsaw, he said: we move from the centre of Poland to talk with Poles as much as possible. And, of course, the psychic words: it is high time all Poles were able to achieve a European standard of living. Today I ask the Prime Minister: Prime Minister, when will the inhabitants of Rybnik reach this European level of air purity? When the Prime Minister comes to Rybnik and stands there on the market - and you have a group of about 30,000 waiting for you. The people who want to hear what you're going to say in the context of the fight for clean air - what do you say about smog, what resources are you going to use? Are you going to build a mine? Will you stand on the side of the residents who [[♪ The bell ♪]] They have the right to protest, they have the right to demand a better life, a better, clean air? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u637	Thank you, sir. Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice will make a final statement today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u638	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear People of War on Lubuska land! What have you done to the authorities of the Lubuskie Sejm and to the Marshal Elizabeth Polak personally, that with his risky, unprecedented decisions he poisons you, condemning you to an increasing health risk, agreeing to grant a concession to burn waste after-production to Swiss Krono plants? This is an unprecedented decision because none of the other five plants of this type in Poland gave such consent. According to the decision of the Marshals of Lubuskie Voivodeship, this company has the right to burn 100,000 a year. t dust arising from the production of plates. Another approach is characterized by e.g. Western Pomeranian or Podkarpackie marshals, who, on the basis of the decision of the provincial environmental inspectors, issued a provision stating that: following the principle of foresight, all likelihood of adverse effects should be treated as the certainty of their occurrence, including the law should be interpreted for the benefit of the environment if there are reasonable doubts as to the risk of negative impact. I therefore congratulate the Regional Environmental Directors of these voivodships and at the same time ask the Provincial Environmental Inspector of Lubuskie to revise his position. Dear residents, along with your councillors, both seymoral and district, let us finally fight for your and your children's health safety effectively. Therefore, I submitted an interpellation for an immediate correction and review of the opinion issued by the Marshal of Lubuskie Voivodeship by the Ministry of Environment. I expect and demand from the Lubuskie Seymour an immediate review of your position against the dangers you have brought upon the people of Żar. I invite associations and ecological movements of Lubuskie land, including glowing land, to cooperate in forcing poisoners to implement procedures and technologies that eliminate risks and harmful emissions to the environment of toxins threatening both humans, animals and nature. We are constantly talking about the tourist and natural values of Lubuskie land, and at the same time we are threatening it with irresponsible behaviour. Together, we can change that. I invite you, especially young people, because this is your future, too, about your health. It is also about whether on this land of Lubuskie, our small regional homeland, you will grow healthy, grow healthy, grow up and start your families as well. For a long time, the environment of the district of Góra, the city of Żary, has been constantly asked to take serious account of the risks that arise from the activities of the largest company producing plates on the territory of Lubuskie, but there are also other plants there. We know dozens of expert reports of very serious allergic, pulmonary, cancerous diseases affecting the inhabitants of these lands. In view of the above, in the interest of them, I would like to propose a change in this position. Your Marshal, it's also your responsibility for the fate of the people of Lubuskie. If you can't do this on your own, I'd like to ask the Provincial Councillors. If you can't do it together, line up with the local government. I will stand among you, stand beside you, so that we can take care of the health of the people of the heat together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-03-sejm-83-1.u639	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. (in the years 1932-1939 he was a vicar in Kobyłka and visited this place many times) in 1981 the idea of reminiscent of the wooden cross Fr. Ignacy Shells. The purchase of material, i.e. wooden balls, was financed by Marian Jeznach, Ossov resident and former ulan. Arkadiusz Melak and his brothers Andrzej, Stefan, Sławomir and Jan Wasie, his aunt, took part. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 4 July 2019 at the latest 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 17]]
