ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Marcin Duszek, Krzysztof Kubow, Monika Wieliczhowska and Krzysztof Truskolas. Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek and Monika Wielichowska. I consider the minutes of the 81st session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! I would like to inform you that in connection with the expiry of the terms of office of Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Mr Joachim Brudziński, Mr Patryk Jajego, Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel, Mr Beata Kempy, Mr Izabela Kloc, Mr Ewa Kopacz, Mr Joanna Kopcińska, Mr Beata Mazurek, Ms Andżelika Możjanowska, Ms Elżbieta Rafalska, Mr Bogdan Rzońcy, Mr Beata Szydło, Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Mr Witold Waszczykowski, Ms Anna Zalewska on the basis of art. 251 § 5 of the electoral code I decided to join them respectively: Zofia Ławrynowicz, Rafał Mucha, Jerzy Nashkiewicz, Henryk Wnorowski, Agnieszka Soin, Katarzyna Dutkiewicz, Michał Mazowiecki, Roman Sasin, Lucjan Cichosz, Piotr Walkowski, Elżbieta Teresa Płonki, Adam Sněžka, Krzysztof Janusz Kozik, Maria Teresa Nowak, Krzysztof Ciebiada, Maciej Adam Badora, who have signed up for the vows of the envoy. I ask Members to come closer to the Presidency table and, ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Now I'm going to read the vows, and then I'm going to exchange your names. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mrs Zofia Lavrynowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u2	I promise.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u3	Mr Rafał Mucha.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u4	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u5	Mr Jerzy Nashkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u6	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u7	Mr Henryk Wnorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u8	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u9	Ms Agnieszka Anna Soin.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u10	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u11	Mrs Katarzyna Dutkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u12	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u13	Mr Michał Mazowiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u14	I promise.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u15	Mr Roman Sasin.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u16	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u17	Mr Lucjan Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u18	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u19	Mr Piotr Walkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u20	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u21	Mrs Elżbieta Teresa Plonk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u22	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u23	Mr Adam Sněžek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u24	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u25	Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u26	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u27	Mrs Maria Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u28	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u29	Mr Krzysztof Ciebiada.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u30	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u31	Mr Maciej Badora.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u32	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u33	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I congratulate you on your congratulations. I note that Mrs Zofia Ławrynowicz, Mr Rafał Mucha, Mr Jerzy Nashkiewicz, Mr Henryk Wnorowski, Mrs Agnieszka Anna Soin, Mrs Katarzyna Dutkiewicz, Mr Michał Mazowiecki, Mr Roman Sasin, Mr Lucjan Cichosz, Mr Piotr Walkowski, Mrs Elżbieta Teresa Płonka, Mr Adam Śnieżek, Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik, Mrs Maria Nowak, Mr Krzysztof Ciebiada, Mr Maciej Badora have taken a vow of marriage. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - on the amendment of the law on value added tax and certain other laws, prints Nos 3499 and 3500, - amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws, print No 3495. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Road Traffic Law and the Road Transport Act, - on the amendment of the Act on Nuclear Law and the Fire Protection Act. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints No 3509 and No 3503. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from those organisms, - amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds, - to regulate certain matters relating to the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community under the Agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints 3446, 3508 and 3470. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau submitted a draft resolution on the 20th anniversary of His Holiness John Paul II's visit to the Sejm and the Senate, print No 3511. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Group of Members submitted a proposal for the election of Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, print No 3510. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the matter. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on the system of development institutions, print No 3479. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on the system of development institutions, print No 3479, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 234, against - 170, holding down 2. The Sejm accepted the offer. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the proposal to supplement the agenda with a report by the committee on the draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and certain other laws in the event of its delivery. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point covering the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and some other laws, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 229, against - 183 and 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2018 of the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the committee's reports on draft resolutions concerning the patrons of 2020. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. On the basis of the article. Paragraph 194. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, two authorised entities submitted proposals on the subject of current information to be discussed at the current meeting of the Sejm. In the absence of a uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, the current Sejm will vote. Let me remind you that according to the article. Paragraph 194. 4a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm will select the current information which will obtain the majority of votes. This means that this information will be selected, which will receive more votes in favour. Mr Tomasz Jaskoła from the Kukiz club15 made a formal request at the moment. There you go. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u34	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I request on behalf of the club that the Seniors Convention be convened to complete the agenda for current information concerning the eavesdropping incident. This is a matter in which my club took the floor six months ago, saying that there should be a committee of inquiry to investigate how and who was recorded, but first of all who is responsible and who should be responsible. We thought this case was only about the Civic Platform, politicians, among others. PSL, as well as many others. But it turns out that the Law and Justice are also afraid of this affair. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of our proposal to clarify the problem in the current information and ask the President of the Council of Ministers to clarify the facts of what the government has done. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what he's writing to President Marek Falenta about. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: The PO-PSL government was then.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u35	The second motion was filed by the Law and Justice Club, but I understand that the club does not think to speak on this matter. There's a request for a recess. I would like to inform the High House that the Senior Convention has discussed this issue, the matter. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, the only decision can be taken by the Sejm, the High Chamber in the vote. There is a request for a recess and I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please raise your hand and press the button. [[Mr. Marshal, call the Convention.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 176, against - 231, holding down 3. The Sejm's motion is denied. We will therefore vote, ladies and gentlemen. The choice of information is proposed here in the order of notification. The first information was notified by the Law and Justice Club. We are voting on the current information on the activities of the Minister of Environment in favour of the Polish village, declared by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you is in favour of choosing this current information, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 228, against - 183, two Members abstained. I would remind you that 228 Members voted in favour of this information. Now we're going to vote on the second piece of information. We proceed to the vote on current information on any information related to the so-called. The tape scandal... Maybe I won't read it anymore. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Read.]] Read it. There you go. [[We want to know what we're voting for.]] ...an illegal eavesdropping at the Owl and Friends restaurant, including the government's position on Mark F's motion - period [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] - the pardon lodged with the President of the Republic of Poland, as well as the state of security against surveillance and wiretapping of the most important persons in the country, notified by the Club Poselski Kukiz.15 Who among you is in favour of choosing this current information, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[They're scared.]] [[Voice from the room: What are they afraid of?]] 413 Members voted. For - 187, against - 226, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has chosen current information on the activities of the Minister of Environment in favour of the Polish village. [[Voice from the room: Such a surprise.]] The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the draft resolution submitted by the Sejm Bureau concerning the 20th anniversary of his visit to the Seym and Senate of John Paul II (print No 3511). I ask Members to stand, and I will read the draft resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland concerning the 20th anniversary of His Holiness John Paul II's visit to the Sejm and the Senate. On 11 June 1999, the visit of the Holy Father John Paul II to the Seym and the Senate took place. It was the first visit of the successor of St. Peter in the building of the national parliament. For us Poles, this event has gained both a symbolic and historical dimension. It confirmed that the direction of political change followed by the fall of communism was right. During the meeting with parliamentarians, John Paul II gave a message to the solemn Assembly of Members and Senators: 'Today, in this place, we are somehow aware of the fundamental role of a just legal order in a democratic country, the foundation of which always and everywhere should be a man and the full truth about a man, his inalienable rights and rights of the entire community, whose name is the Nation'. The words spoken by the Holy Father are still alive and precious to us, a moral signpost for the whole country. This is also the fundamental declaration: 'Poland has the full right to participate in the overall process of progress and development of the world, especially of Europe. The integration of Poland with the European Union has been supported by the Holy See from the outset'. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, on the 20th anniversary of John Paul II's visit to the Sejm and the Senate, pays tribute to the Holy Father and wishes to emphasize that the Polish Pope remains the current model for shaping relations - based on truth, love and peace in contemporary society. I ask Members to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution concerning the 20th anniversary of the visit of His Holiness John Paul II to the Sejm and the Senate. We proceed with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Election of Deputy Marshal of the Sejm (print No 3510). Following the expiry of the term of office of Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, Mrs Beata Mazurek, a group of Members submitted a proposal for the appointment of Vice-Marshal of the Sejm to Mrs Małgorzata Gosiewska. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Richard Terletki in order to present this candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to present the candidacy of Małgorzata Maria Gosiewska as Vice-Marshal of the Sejm. Małgorzata Gosiewska, in her youth related to the Gdańsk Independent Student Association, gained professional experience as an employee of the National Commission of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity). It was implemented in local government as a councilwoman of the municipality of Bielany, a councilwoman of m.st. Warsaw, Councilor of the Sejmik Mazowiecki Voivodeship and Deputy Mayor of Ursus district. Since the beginning of his political career in connection with the Centre's Agreement, the founding member of Law and Justice, political advisor to the Eastern President of the Republic of Poland, has been deceased. Professor Lech Kaczyński. In the President's Chancellery, an idealist of systemic humanitarian aid in areas of armed conflict, including spectacular special projects - the organizer of holiday trips for the victims of the war of Georgian children, as well as for young Palestinians from Gaza, the initiator of direct aid, humanitarian convoys to destroyed villages so-called. the buffer zone in Georgia. Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland V, VII and VIII term, focused primarily on defending the Polish cause of state and historical truth. Active and present in Kiev Majdan during the Dignity Revolution, later repeatedly on the first line of the Ukrainian-Russian conflict in Donbas. Author of the report on Russian war crimes in eastern Ukraine, a document filed at the International Criminal Court in The Hague. Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad of the Polish Parliament, Vice-President of Parliamentary Assembly of Poland and Ukraine and Poland and Lithuania. Chairman of the parliamentary bilateral groups of Poland and Georgia and Poland and Romania. The extensive professional and parliamentary experience and outstanding organizational skills prove that Małgorzata Maria Gosiewska is the right candidate for the role of Deputy Marshal of the Polish Sejm. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u37	Thank you, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to take the floor on the candidacy? If no one's checking in, we can move on to the vote. According to Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 in conjunction with Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 Rules of Procedure The Sejm shall elect the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of choosing the Vice-Marshal of the Seym of Małgorzata Gosievska, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. The absolute majority is 204. The vote was 247, against - 121, with 38 abstentions. [[Some Members get up and clap]] I state that the Sejm elected Ms Małgorzata Gosievska as Vice-Marshal of the Sejm by an absolute majority of votes. Thank you. Congratulations. And I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u38	In connection with the 20th anniversary of John Paul II's visit to the Polish Parliament of the Marshals of the Sejm, he kindly invites you to the opening ceremony of the exhibition entitled: The gift of regained freedom. The 20th anniversary of the visit of the Holy Father John Paul II to the Sejm, which will take place today at 3 p.m. 13 in the main hall. I kindly inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Administration and Home Affairs - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights at 3 p.m. 10.30, - for Petitions - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 12, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 12, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the occurrence of negligence and omissions by public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties - at hours. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - at 3 p.m. 13, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 13.30, - National Defense at 3 p.m. 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 16, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - at 3 p.m. 16, - to State Control at 3 p.m. 17, - Social Policy and Family Policy - at 3 p.m. 18, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - at 3 p.m. 18. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: The legacy of St. John Paul II - at 3 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - at 3 p.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Health Organization - at 3 p.m. 14, "There will also be a joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Maritime Wind Energy and Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - at 3 p.m. 18. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u39	We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws (prints Nos 3236 and 3423). I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to present a report to the committee, and I ask your Members to remain silent in the Chamber. [[Game in the O.R.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws, prints Nos 3236 and 3423. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. The Extraordinary Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 9 May. I would like to remind you that this project concerns a very important issue - the need to introduce a new type of capital company, so-called, into the Polish legal order. a simple public limited company, PSA, which results from the analysis of the legal environment and functioning in Poland so-called. start-ups and is a response to the demands of this environment and business submitted to the resort. The aim of the project is to create a legal framework for dynamic start-ups development. Start-ups are usually young companies looking for a niche market. Their activities are often based on innovative ideas, new technologies and human capital, which faces new challenges. Thanks to technological advantage they have the potential for very rapid growth, but the current legal forms of business activity are anachronistic for them. It should be pointed out that business activity in Poland faces new challenges. This is driven by the dynamic development of technology and the increasing importance of innovation. The potential of Polish start-ups is huge. Already in 2016, it was estimated that if favourable conditions were created for the development of such projects, the sector could generate over 2200 million added value in 2024 and create around 50,000. jobs, which translates into household income at an estimated level of PLN 757 million. Polish investors and experts are appreciated today not only in Europe but also in Silicon Valley. Poland is seventh in the world among the most friendly start-ups and second in terms of overall investment conditions. This law is necessary and necessary for the further development of this branch. Instead of trying to reform the construction of existing capital companies, solutions have been adopted to provide an alternative to existing legislation. This is due to certain legal constraints, the extent of the necessary changes and the safety of trading. PSA is based on two basic assumptions. The first is the simplicity in the practice of the company's operation, i.e. the easy establishment, operation and possible liquidation of PSA. The second assumption is flexibility - the proposed rules do not restrict the freedom of shareholders where this is not necessary for the sake of the safety of trading and the protection of creditors or minority shareholders. The formal requirements related to the establishment, operation and liquidation of the company have been limited to a minimum. During the work, the committee examined 16 amendments. Amendment 3, which regulates the administrative execution of PSA shares dematerialised, i.e. registration in the shareholder register, can be considered the most important. The reasons for this amendment are as follows: These issues were dealt with in the same way as in the draft, adopted by the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, which provides for compulsory dematerialisation of the shares of the public limited liability company and the limited liability company. An important amendment is contained in Amendment 13, which provides the basis for covering the professional secrecy of the data collected in the shareholder register. It's a change in the article. 147 Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. On the other hand, of the 13 amendments tabled at the committee meeting, amendment 9 is important, which solves the problem of the impossibility of adopting resolutions on the amendment of the company's contract if the indicated place where the general meeting is to take place is abroad. In this case, it will also be necessary to indicate at least one meeting place in the territory of the Republic of Poland in the company's agreement. Most of the amendments were clear and cross-cutting any doubts as to the content of the provisions. Several amendments, by wording, unless it has been explicitly decided that the question may be settled differently in the company's contract. These are amendments 4 and 5 from the amendments tabled in the subcommittee and amendment 3 from the amendments tabled in the committee. The draft was also adapted to the changes in the law due to amendments 15 and 16 tabled in the subcommittee. On behalf of the committee, I propose that this report be adopted and that this law be further positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u41	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u42	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the Government's draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws, print Nos 3236 and 3423. Today, we are discussing a very important draft law that responds to the challenges of changing the legal environment of doing business based primarily on new technologies and innovation. The proposed changes are initiated by the start-up environment. The implementation of the changes was initiated by analyses and discussions already undertaken in 2016. The White Paper on Innovation of September 2016 confirmed that innovation should be supported inter alia. changes in the legal environment of companies. During the work on the Law, opinions were gathered both in the field of trade law specialists and lawyers of practitioners as well as potential users of the proposed legislation, including representatives of start-ups and investors. PARP also conducted surveys. 73% the subjects who took part in these studies believe that a new legal formula is needed for start-ups. In September 2016, a team of experts was set up, which prepared recommendations for a simple public limited liability company, PSA. This team was composed of prominent representatives of trade law sciences and lawyers working on a daily basis, among others. Start-ups. Instead of attempting to reform the rules of existing capital companies, the project proposes the creation of a new formula for a commercial company. This is due to certain legal constraints, the extent of the necessary changes and the safety of trading. The envisaged solutions are intended to provide an alternative to existing legal structures. This was the way in which regulation was decided for a number of reasons. Firstly, operations should not be carried out on hundreds of thousands of entities. In Poland there are more than 450,000. companies in the O.O. - that's over 84% all commercial companies - and around 12 thousand. public limited liability companies. For many classic businesses that are not based on innovation or human capital, today's capital companies are a tool that works in practice. Secondly, by making profound changes to these companies, all existing entities should be required to adapt their structures to the new rules, e.g. to liquidate the share capital. Even if we carefully assume that the costs of such activities, e.g. changes to the company's contract will be minimal, for existing companies. this would generate a global cost of over PLN 680 million. A better proportionate way to implement the project is therefore to create a new legal formula and to leave companies that today operate in other forms, to decide whether or not they want to use it, e.g. transform into PSA. In Europe, business formulas dedicated to innovative companies are being created. A good example is the Slovak simple joint stock company, which has been operating with our neighbours since 1 January 2017, or the French simplified joint stock company SAS, which is very popular in France. In most countries of the European Union, a capital company with a minimum initial contribution may be established, e.g. 1 euro. The single market offers the opportunity to compete in the legal environment with other countries of the European Union. The groundbreaking importance of this bill is enormous, because we cannot fall behind, although an inspiration to the concept PSA are the needs of start-ups, this new tool will be available to any company for which the traditional organisational framework is too flexible or too complex. PSA is based on two basic assumptions. The first is simplicity in the practice of the company's operation, i.e. its easy establishment and operation. The second is the lack of formal and financial barriers at start-up - it is enough to have share capital of PLN 1 and the establishment of the company will be possible in the system of registration of the company online in 24 hours. Instead of PSA's share capital, equity is created. Shares do not form part of it, do not have a nominal value. Shares can be covered for work, services, while maintaining a key influence on decisions in the company, thanks to a special type of preference of shares, so-called. founding shares, investors can also avoid losing their leading position at the capital search stage. One-man management is enough, there is no obligation to create a supervisory board. It is also possible to create one body in which management and supervision are combined, i.e. the board of directors. We believe that these proposals are going in the right direction. A number of amendments were taken into account during the committee's work. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I strongly recommend continuing to proceed with the bill and make two amendments. Amendment 1. to Article. 300 § 2 and Amendment 2. 2 of the Law of 17 February Code of Civil Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u43	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I will present my views on the Extraordinary Commission's report on changes to the codification of the draft in print No 3236. The project aims to introduce into the system a new type of capital company, a simple public limited liability company. Projectors assume that the procedated type of company will apply to start-up projects based on modern technologies, that it will allow to combine innovative solutions at the early stages of development, innovation and entrepreneurship. The intentions, of course, are good, but we emphasized at first reading: whether it will actually be easier, cheaper and less rigorous. Calling the company simple does not mean that the construction will be simple. This is also emphasized by representatives of the Department of Commercial Law of Polish universities. They point out that the project is a legal monster with a lot of mistakes. Of course, there is a need to focus both on some facilitations and on the protection of trading participants, and in this project there is much talk about the interests of the partners and there is no good protection of the interests of creditors. Therefore, it is a threat that financial institutions, when they see that they are dealing with a simple public limited liability company, may not take it seriously or require additional collateral, and injured counterparties would resent you that their interests were not sufficiently secured. Today, start-ups have a limited liability company or public limited liability company to choose from. As many as 71% of start-ups founders choose the company z o.o. It would be worth considering whether or not this company should be modified, whether changes should be made to facilitate its operation and to remove the barriers that business is talking about today, rather than introducing a new type of company that is supposed to be simple and already difficult. We are aware that progress leads to the start of new forms of business activity, but what is proposed today in this project, also after working in committee, in our opinion, does not deserve approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u45	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I wanted to present our position on Seym Printing Nos 3236 and 3423 concerning the draft Commercial Companies Code Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this project was to create something indirect between the company's o.o. and the public limited liability company, which was supposed to enable the setting up of innovative companies, so-called. start-ups, in a simple way. At present, however, it must be said that the companies of the O.O. and share companies are based on share capital, while PSA will be based on share capital, theoretical equity capital, because it can include labour, valuation of some funds. The basic charge we have against this law is the certainty of economic turnover. It cannot be that, on the other hand, we are overly risking creditors by creating new facilities for innovative projects. Because if these companies, so-called. simple equity companies existed at the start-up point for a year, two, three, and you might wonder if this isn't the right way. On the other hand, we are going in the opposite direction: once, that we do them in principle indefinitely, two - we still allow the transformation of current companies from o.o. in simple share companies. So, on the simple way, on the one hand, we increase the penalty for unfair conduct of business and various VAT routes, and on the other hand we open another company, which, frankly, no one will locate, and we do not know when and what it will do. The question is, therefore, where there is a limit to the risk of the creditor, because the supplier, the co-operator who cooperates with this type of company, must be guaranteed at least the probability of obtaining payment for the services or work he has performed, etc. We can't play poker on the principle that it's an innovative company, so it can fall down and leave behind an afterglow, which is to get credit and disappear. On a good case, which is the worst, such a company is not responsible for anything, the shareholders are not responsible for anything. Few of this, I wonder how its bankruptcy will be declared and whether it is possible to declare bankruptcy at all, because the court will not have grounds for bankruptcy, because it must state that there is some capital, there are some funds to cover insolvency proceedings. The last case is a matter of a simple joint stock company. Beauty name, design contains 123 articles, I don't know what's going to be simple here. From the simple we go into curves, complicated, intricate. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's modify k.s.h., let's modify the law on companies with limited liability companies. Let's think about taxes, about the certainty of economic turnover, and not look for complex roads. On the one hand, you are legally sealing VAT, and on the other hand you are opening a gate for subsequent combinators companies. We will not support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u48	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present the position of the club on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act and some other laws, prints Nos 3236 and 3423. The previous speakers have already said a lot about this project today when it comes to its assumptions. As for the general idea, it is appropriate to agree that there is a need for continuous work in Poland in terms of triggering inventions of people wishing to undertake non-standard economic activities, innovative economic activities with good ideas, because this - I think we will agree in this House over this hot political dispute - is not lacking among young Poles. I would even risk thinking that they are far ahead of their peers from other countries of the European Union or other world powers in this respect, and this is confirmed by the kind of exploration of our university graduates by world-wide global corporations, which these talents, people with great ideas, are looking for, only from general idea, from general to detail, as shown by the example of this project, a long way away. And here as a club of the Polish People's Party we would like to draw attention to this, as the previous speakers said, that the path to simplification, facilitation cannot lead through earlier difficulties and complexity, and it is difficult not to get such an impression, High Izbo, that this project is precisely in such complexity of people wanting to undertake business activity, creating stand-ups unfortunately leads. It will therefore be difficult for us to directly support this bill. We are still counting on the designers to eliminate these fundamental complexities, and we will depend on the support of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u49	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the opinion of the club Moderna about the project from print no. 3236, i.e. the government draft law on amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act and some other laws. It has already been said that sometimes good ideas, if they are not reasonably introduced, can cause more confusion and damage than the originators predicted, and maybe this project is an example of this. The very fact that a new form of business is being created through a simple public limited liability company is not bad in itself, because it gives the entrepreneur the opportunity to choose in which form It'll be the easiest thing for him to function. Especially when it comes to young entrepreneurs who are just starting to operate in the market and in the economy, it would be bad if such people, if some project failed, were burdened with problems related to the bankruptcy of the company for many years to come, which does not mean that we are not to lean on what Mr Jachnik has said, namely securing possibly those companies and those people who are working with such a newly created company. Therefore, the question is whether the provisions contained in this Act guarantee it in any way. The answer is, they don't guarantee, because we don't know what it's gonna look like. The question is this: Will it be possible at the last stage of parliamentary work to catch and correct these shortcomings of this law? I don't think so. We will of course give an opportunity, therefore we will be in favour of further proceding this law and depending on what the final effect of the committee's work will be, we will decide whether to support or not this project. Nevertheless, it can be said that all actions aimed at facilitating economic activity and the start-up of economic activities by new entrants must be supported. The question also relates to the provision enabling the current companies, which operate on the basis of an entry into the National Court Register as limited liability companies, to quickly transform into a simple public limited liability company. Indeed, this may be an attempt to escape when a company is in trouble and sees that the board of directors can be financially responsible for certain obligations. It may be such a simple form of escape from these obligations, therefore it is indeed controversial. However, the direction is good, perhaps there is a real need to introduce another form of business. However, the question is whether this particular project and these records will serve this purpose. Therefore, as I say, we will be in favour of further proceedings in committee, and the final outcome of this work will decide on our vote on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u51	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, my question refers to a club performance. Did the state, when preparing this bill, have in the field of view precisely that this legal form of the company facilitate the entry of new persons into the field of business, or was the legal form most important today, and these facilitations and this liberation of entrepreneurship among Poles secondary? I'd like to know the motivation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u53	Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is quite important, big change and a whole new creation - a simple joint stock company. Surely, in practice, if the law is adopted, it will prove to be fulfilling its task. I have a question for the Minister. Why, please give me the main arguments, was it decided to create this new legal creation, a simple public limited liability company, and not to adapt the limited liability company to the new challenges, to the new reality, to those actions that start-ups need? In order to simplify as much as possible, it is not my opinion that it is the most important thing to do business, it is more important to stabilise the situation so that the rules are simple, clear. And here I would ask for more arguments in favour of the creation of a simple public limited liability company rather than a change in the scope of limited liability companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Business environment, especially those most innovative entrepreneurs, start-ups have been waiting for these regulations for a long time. It was indeed a dilemma whether to change the rules on existing companies, in particular limited liability companies, or to create a new legal form. The second solution was chosen. Indeed, it seems to be cheaper, more logical and reasonable in this particular situation. The club's speeches were dominated by concern about the situation of the creditors of these companies. I must say that I also share these concerns about the situation of creditors, including the situation of public creditors, so I would ask for information as to whether the position of creditors will be well secured. There is always a consensus in commercial companies between the interests of economic operators [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the interests of the creditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u57	Thank you very much. And Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The introduction of a new type of capital company, a simple public limited liability company, is undoubtedly a bow towards projects based on modern technologies. However, the proposed range of capital companies introduces a completely new entity. I would like to ask whether changes in the existing types of companies, namely in a limited liability company and in a public limited liability company, have been considered, in such a way as to respond to the existing demand. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u59	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Minister Marek Niebżak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to answer maybe not so much in the order of the questions asked, but according to the issues, the more that some issues have been repeated, both in the questions and in previous speeches. One such issue, which I would sum up, is one such issue - why a new type of company, why not changes or reforms of a limited liability company. And the answer - a limited liability company for today is the most popular corporate vehicle. In Poland, these are hundreds, thousands of companies, living economic organisms that have concluded contracts that somehow function - better, worse, but functioning. On the other hand, if we started to fundamentally change the conditions of this activity, e.g. the conditions concerning share capital, some reserves in this capital, liability, management organisation, that would generate additional, say, regulatory uncertainty for these companies, and often very large. This uncertainty can, of course, be even very measurable, because the cost to which the rapporteur has referred here is due to the need to change the agreement of the company, i.e. to visit a notary and then to submit an application to a registered court. This is only the most measurable cost, because there is also a cost related simply to uncertainty about a very important change in the rules of the game, at a time when, as I say, hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs play in this form all the time, the form of the company. That's why we haven't decided on these changes. In turn, proposing a new form has such an advantage that - please pay attention - the choice will always belong to the entrepreneur, he will decide. We here, you can say, take some kind of risk because it may turn out that this form will be less popular than we assume, but then no harm will come out of it, it will just be less popular. We look at Slovakia, we look at France, where it is very popular. We hope that the scale of innovation in Poland will grow, that there will be more start-ups, that they will find capital, will develop. However, if this does not happen - which I would not like, because of course I would prefer a positive scenario to be implemented - if a negative scenario is implemented, then the risk is, please see, practically none. And that is kind of the main reason for whether the main motivation to apply a new solution, not to change significantly - I repeat that these are not minor changes - existing companies from o.o. Now, referring to the question of whether we were looking at these facilitations - this was the first question of the Member - I will say that yes, we designed this change with this in mind, also taking into account some Polish realities. Let me give you a concrete example: In France, a simple public limited company... I do not remember exactly, but there is a very short, very short regulation, which has very few articles, and is based on the fact that there are just regular references and proper application of the rules of the S.A., the provisions concerning the public limited liability company. Our regulation did not go so as to say, by the way, with a legislative technique which in a country with a different legal culture might work. It seems to me that, given the Polish reality, it is better if different issues, e.g. the issue of a simple public limited liability company is regulated directly and not by reference or by appropriate application of the rules on other companies. This is how we get full regulation. I'm not saying, and I never said k.s.h. It's pretty simple. Take a k.s.h., read it, see what a simple bill it is. Of course it's not. Trade law is complicated matter, people make habilitation out of it, professors argue about how to interpret a given issue. This is very difficult matter, but within this difficult matter you can create a corporate vehicle, which will, let's say, be more complicated in operation, require more costs, larger enterprises - such a vehicle is e.g. public limited company, the truth, the most complicated - and you can create something simpler like e.g. public limited liability company. On the one hand, a simple public limited liability company is to be a capital company with all the characteristics of capital companies, but on the other hand, the simplest form of these corporate capital vehicles. I think we have achieved this goal, although, as I say, I am aware that we are not talking about a civil company, that it is a capital company. And now the third line. I think it is the most important one, it has appeared in many questions and speeches, it is a question of marketing safety. Here, first of all, I would ask this question: What does it mean - because we say so - that some company is safe? On the one hand, let us take the European benchmark. Ladies and gentlemen, in the UK, in Ireland, in the Netherlands, it could even be a company with zero share capital. In France, Germany, Italy - with 1 euro. Countries where capital requirements are minimal or no, especially if they look at economic potential, in the European Union - I would say so boldly - there is already a majority. It's not like we're inventing, discovering America. No, we are rather trying, within our regulatory environment, to match a certain European standard. Let's look at the Polish benchmark, not the European one, but the Polish one. Since 2008 or 2009 the minimum share capital in the company z o.o. It's 5,000. zł. Here's the question of somebody going to the bank, they're gonna have to take extra collateral. Here, in this room with your hand on your heart, tell me if someone has $5,000. zł share capital, it will not need additional collateral from the bank. He'll get a loan for doing business. It's obvious that today, as far as the 5,000 are concerned. zł in the case of the company, this is, let's say, a formality. The legislators probably didn't have the guts to go down to that zloty, because there was also this concept of the company for the zloty, and it stayed with the 5,000. zł. What's that enough for? Tell me what it's enough for when someone starts doing business in the form of a company from O.O. And how does that safeguard the creditor's interests? But look at PSA now. We have here a real mechanism that binds capital, and it's not about share capital, because it's not called share capital, it's about reserve. This mechanism binds the amount of the reserve - i.e. simply the money, the cash that has to be held in the company - to the amount of liabilities determined year by year and therefore the reserves held in PSA will have to be linked to the real amount of liabilities. In my opinion, this is a much more real mechanism than the mechanism, I would say, so very formal - not to say more - that is, the one with the share capital of 5 000. zł. That's another line. Members of the Management Board PSA, of course, is responsible for the company's obligations subsidiaryly, i.e. after the execution of the company's assets proves ineffective. And the next thing I know, it's a transformation. Of course, there will be the possibility of transforming into k.s.h. it is possible to convert one capital company into another. However, please bear in mind that every time we transform according to the Commercial Companies Code - here we do not make any changes - it is preceded by such a special procedure: communication procedure, which among others. it takes a few months, from memory I say something about 6 months, and he wouldn't take his head off for it, and it's a procedure in which creditors can demand collateral, i.e. if the creditors consider that transformation e.g. from the company O.O. a simple public limited liability company is a victim to them, they have the possibility to apply in the course of this procedure for the protection of their claims. As I say, we are not making any changes in this area of trade law. This is a mechanism that already works. Therefore, both because of this procedure and because of what I mentioned earlier, i.e. because of this mechanism of maintaining the reserve directly linked to each size of liabilities on the company's side and with the liability of the board members, such as in the company's o.o. If, on this basis, PSA is safe for creditors, and it is certainly safer than the company's, for sure. And it is certainly safer than those companies in countries, countries of the European Union, which I have mentioned, which operate either on zero capital or on capital of EUR 1. Yes, thank you very much. I tried to answer all the questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u61	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws (prints no. 3137 and 3457). I would like to ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I present on behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications a report on the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws, print Nos 3137 and 3457. The purpose of the presentation, as indicated by the Council of Ministers, is a comprehensive change in the civil procedure aimed at improving the system of management of the case, while at the same time protecting the rights of the parties and improving the conditions for those involved in the process. The implementation of these objectives is to be achieved through changes to civil procedural regulations in nine areas: preparation of the case for investigation, prevention of abuse of procedural law, evidence, justification of judgments and appeals, proceedings in economic matters and other separate proceedings, general improvement of proceedings, judicial costs as well as implementing and transitional provisions. Marshal of the Sejm at the 77th meeting of the Sejm on 20 February 2019 pursuant to Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. Written opinions were presented by: National Chamber of Legal Advisers, Supervisory Board of ZUS, Polish Chamber of Experts, National Bank of Poland, Financial Supervision Commission and spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Extraordinary Commission on Codification Changes at its meeting on 21 February referred the draft to the Permanent Sub-Committee on Civil Law Amendment, which concluded its work on 11 April 2019 after six meetings. At the meeting of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codification on 14 May, the report on the work of the subcommittee was presented by its President, Mr Waldemar Buda. The meeting was also attended by Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, together with colleagues, Paulina Tronowska, specialist in the legal team of the Financial Ombudsman's Office, Anisa Gnacikowska, Deputy Secretary of the Supreme Bar Council, together with colleagues, Anna Suska, representative of the National Council of Legal Counsels, Adrian Zwoliński, expert in the Confederacy of Leviathan, together with colleagues, Jan Pressałek, legislative representative of the Polish Credit Management Union, Anna Wypy-Knieć, representative of the Association of Polish Judges Iustia, Marcin Czugan, Vice President of the Board of the Conference of Financial Enterprises in Poland, as well as employees of the secretariat and advisors of the Extraordinary Commission and legislators from the Legislative Office. A discussion on the project took place at the meeting. All regulations have been systematically discussed. Several dozen amendments have been tabled, including substantive, ordering and legislative amendments. Five Members ultimately voted in favour of the bill, no one opposed it, no one abstained. The Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering the draft law at its meetings on 21 February and 14 May asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law as proposed in print No 3357. I would like to thank you for the constructive work of the ladies and gentlemen and all the participants in the committee's work, and also to express the hope that the project will have a positive impact on the work of the Polish courts and increase the acceptance of their work by society. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u63	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome to go again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice our position towards the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws. We agree, of course, with the aim that, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, was guiding the Council of Ministers in preparing the project. This is to redefine the shape of the civil process in order to improve the system of management of the case, while at the same time protecting the rights of the parties and improving the conditions for those involved in the process. These words may seem abstract to many, but these are very specific things. The project responds to social expectations and aims to improve those aspects of the functioning of the courts which Poles most often criticised, thus reducing the length of proceedings and judging on the basis of insufficient evidence, increasing the timeliness of the courts, improving the organisation of courts and ensuring more humane treatment of citizens in courts. These are the intentions of the government and the presented project, but these are also the demands of Law and Justice for almost 20 years, confirmed not only by public opinion polls, but also by daily experience in the field of thousands of meetings with Poles and legal advice given in the offices of parliamentarians and councillors of our formation. In this project there are many solutions that will improve and speed up proceedings, make the civil process more flexible. We rightly place more emphasis on settlement of the dispute, giving judgment as soon as possible after the first hearing, bringing a hearing day after day, preventing and combating procedural obstruction and reducing formalism, e.g. when declaring judgments. It is also valuable that we strengthen the rights of the weaker parties, e.g. by exempting from legal fees the underprivileged and employees of their rights towards employers. In conclusion, the draft after the committee's work is very positive. At the same time, I make eight amendments, mainly complementary and clarifying. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u65	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u66	Speaking on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I declare that the club supports further work on the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I will submit my position on the draft in print No 3137. The overall aim of the proposed project is, as is apparent from the content of the statement of reasons, to improve civil proceedings and to improve the situation of the citizen present before the court. This project raises many doubts throughout the legal community. Frequent amendments are undesirable to the transparency of the law. It is worth recalling that the Committee on Civil Law Codification, acting at the Minister's office until December 2015, has undertaken to work on a new, modern Code of Civil Procedure. Unfortunately, the liquidation caused the work to stop. For us, the minister's actions are completely incomprehensible. Returning to the project - the amendment introduces some sensible solutions, but also many controversial and really damaging solutions, while maintaining a general formalistic procedure. We are dealing with unnecessary casuistics of many norms. In addition, some of the changes are undoubtedly unrelated to speeding up civil proceedings or improving the position of a citizen in court. On the contrary, it seems that some solutions may, as a result, worsen the status of the party in the proceedings. Civilists stress that it does not necessarily need to be faster or more efficient, because the degree of formalization of proceedings in practice does not accelerate them at all. All reforms focused on speeding up have introduced formalism, which unfortunately is at the expense of material truth. The judgment given in the case should be as appropriate as possible to the well-established facts. Also, excessive fiscalism contradicts the justice system. High Izbo! The amendment of the Code, which would pursue such important objectives as set out in the explanatory memorandum, should not be of an incidental and clipping nature, but should fall within the scope of the comprehensive and complete procedural regulation of the new Code of Civil Procedure. Any change in the model of civil proceedings should be preceded by a deep, substantive discussion involving representatives of all legal professions and scientific backgrounds, and the project itself should be thoroughly refined. The next amendments tabled will not improve the project and it seems that they will not allow the objective to be achieved. Therefore, as a club, we cannot fully support the proposed changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u69	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I wanted to present my position on the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws, seym print no. 3137. Here's what I'm gonna say. One cannot be blamed on the Ministry of Justice: that he works hard and spends a lot of legal acts, very thick and very complicated. There's no discussion about that. On the other hand, the quality of these acts remains a second issue. And with the quality of these acts is, I'll say gently, not well. The same project, among others. introduces a prognosis of proceedings into economic proceedings, little of that, extends the catalogue, some narrows, some extends. There are two opinions. The evidence was already in the economic proceedings. When she was introduced, there was a lot of resistance, she was judged differently. There are downsides, there are pluses. As a matter of fact, I've been involved in trials with and without evidence. Let me put it this way: not so much probative precision is important as the quality, experience and decision-making of the judge. Minister, I regret to say that for the past four years, the least has been done in the case of the quality of case law, the decision-making of the judges and the delaying of matters under any pretense. With all due respect, the simplest thing you can do in 15 minutes is two, three years. Let me give you an example of another case. I've been going to Sosnowiec for two years on a criminal case since I was a Member. I missed four sessions of the Sejm because I always had such a deadline. This case may have lasted 15 minutes, but unfortunately it didn't last that long. It's not over yet, there's probably an appeal. Anyway, here's what I'm gonna say: lawyers are gonna defend the evidence front. I have read the opinions of the solicitor in very detail on behalf of the Marshal of the Sejm, because your Marshal has experience in this area, so there is another look. It seems to me that experienced judges will benefit from the prognosis of evidence that she will be needed. Lawyers will be behind the probabilitation, because they are naturally interested in dragging the trial, because their salary depends on it. This is, unfortunately, such a crossroads of business. We will do nothing in this matter, Minister, no matter how you work, plow for 48 hours, 24 hours until the judges are properly educated until the judges are held responsible for dragging cases, for lack of decision-making, until the judges have help in terms of assistants, work tools, etc. It's all part of it. No legal act, no previous K.S.H. we've talked about, no legal act will have any effect. I'd like to be, for example. Find out as to the data, because the probabilitation was probably 2, 3 years old, what was the acceleration at that time in the case of the processes. I think it was up to the judge. I would suggest, Minister, that you see the burden on judges of cases in the months of July, August, November, December. What's the burden in the D.A.'s office? How many cases does that end? After all, in December, lawyers will not keep up with these provisions, and the whole year is peaceful. I suggest you focus on something else. You guys work really hard, but the results aren't good. There are a lot of mistakes in the project itself. I still don't like the legal costs in civil matters because they are among the highest in Europe. In general, we need to consider how they can be regulated, whether they should be counted against the value of the subject matter of the dispute, whether they should be regulated by other tools. There is no owl on the transparency of proceedings and the participation of NGOs. No one's gonna change that, because for what? It is better to throw the association out of the courtroom and say that it simply cannot participate. That's what it looks like. I think that this project will not help speed up proceedings, even though it is thick, detailed and written in a very complicated way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u71	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, prints no. 3137 and 3457. In fact, I am willing to agree with the authors of the project, with the rapporteur, that these are changes that were expected by Poles, are expected by Poles. It is only regrettable that it was only at the end of the 8th term of the Sejm that this materialized in the form of an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure. There was a time for controversial projects concerning the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and other institutions of fundamental importance in the area of justice to be undertaken immediately, immediately at the beginning of the term of office, while these real, real cases have only been dealt with today. This is undoubtedly regrettable. The project actually introduces several elements, which can be called a thorough reform of civil proceedings. The aim of the authors is to streamline, simplify and speed up procedures. A large part of the case is to be settled at the first hearing. This objective is to be achieved by reducing procedural obstructions, which is indeed a problem for the justice system. The use by attorneys of various legal loopholes only to gain time is the peril of every court. This makes it difficult for the other side to investigate justice. This is commonly raised by Poles in various situations and therefore the project introduces sanctions for abuse of procedural law. A judge who finds that another complaint in the same case is only a delay game will be able to decide to double the costs of the trial or interest. In addition, the court will be able to leave a number of applications submitted for obstruction without consideration. This is to be served, among others. introducing an obligation to respond in writing to a lawsuit. If it is not possible to close the proceedings at the first hearing, the judge will immediately have to set several consecutive periods of trial immediately following each other so that there are no months' breaks between them. The proposed rules shorten the way for citizens to the courts: cases are to take place near their place of residence. That's good, too. The possibility of extending proceedings has also been limited, e.g. by constantly pressing complaints. New solutions also guarantee the objectivity of proceedings - automatic exclusion of judges and entire compositions when their impartiality can be questioned. There will also be no pronouncements in an empty courtroom. Right now, the judge has to do it even when no one's stood up. The draft also assumes that in the written justifications of the judgments it will be sufficient to outline the substance of the problem, which will significantly relieve judges. This party will determine what justification it expects: full or partial. In addition, the possibility to make written statements in all civil court proceedings has been extended. One element of the reform proposed by the government is also the exemption from legal fees for the less prosperous and workers who gain their rights from employers. Discounts have also been offered for the victims of unfair sellers: fees will be reduced by 2/3 if the injured person tries to resolve the dispute amicably before bringing an action. The victims of the banks, the franchise, will pay a maximum of 1 000 for bringing the case. zł, and now it can be tens of thousands of zlotys. Reasonable doubts are raised by the planned return to the fast track for entrepreneurs. This will be a much more formalized procedure, with a tightened prognosis. Generally, from a social point of view, the solutions contained in the project should be considered appropriate. There are quite significant doubts, [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the issue of judicial costs, as a general rule, but in the course of further work there may be a chance to face this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Madame, Marshal Barbara Dolniak, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A quick process of codes results in the Sejm adopting any law. We had a criminal code in two days. How did it end? 43 amendments made by the Senate. All you had to do was work, discuss, talk, and maybe there wouldn't be so many amendments in the Senate. In its annual reports, the Supreme Court states that the changes made do not lead to improvements, and are increasingly hindering the reading of this law and, in fact, making this procedure more difficult. Unfortunately, this draft Civil Procedure Code contains many, many technical changes, I do not know whether not even more than substantive, but these changes are not really going to improve the procedure and speed up the procedure. So what if we write down in the code book that the judge should set a hearing from day to day or taking into account the necessary delay if there is no adequate judicial cast? There's no idea for a system change in this project. Even if we find a single law that we can consider to be good, there is no idea of a systemic change in the whole project, and what you are proposing does not change the Civil Procedure Code system. In legislative terms, the project is dominated by the Kazuistic approach leading to excessive regulation, which is abandoned in modern procedural regulations. The State with pleasure - this is another law - very casuistically you regulate individual solutions without leaving the judge free to rule. The lack of flexible regulation may lead to difficulties in assessing the conditions that are directly unforeseen in this code, but everything cannot be predicted. We are talking about the fact that, given the income of Poles, judicial costs are among the highest in the European Union, and the state in this law increases these costs. The Law and Justice representative says that you are giving the opportunity to apply for exemption from court costs, but this proposal is today. Talking about the fact that you give parties the opportunity to apply for an exemption from costs, that this is a new or some specific right that you grant is not a matter of truth. You are creating a situation where, after the judgment has been overturned, the case will be dealt with by the same judge. How does that apply to art? 48 point 5 of the Civil Procedure Code? If it's art. 48 is to be left to date, this will be contrary to Article. 386 § 5 of the Civil Procedure Code. Attention should also be paid to the article. Paragraph 379 (4) of the Civil Procedure Code, according to which the annulment of the proceedings takes place if the judge excluded from the law took part in the examination of the case. The designer did not foresee any changes in this respect. The amendment is inconsistent. The rule of rejection has been maintained in the absence of a judicial remedy and a recovery mechanism has been provided for. For what purpose? The ambition of the creators of the amendment, who announced that this would be a wide-ranging change, exceeded the result. You are not listening to any comments, there are no amendments. You have taken into account the number of amendments you have tabled only in committee. I am making further amendments to the proposal on behalf of the Modernist, and I hope that at the next committee meeting [[♪ The bell ♪]] there will be a substantive discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u75	Thank you very much, Marshal. Before I give the floor to Mrs Margaret Zwierzan, next to the parliamentary... [[Me on the fifth.]] Oh, excuse me. That's not the point. In that case, will any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House want to come forward with a question? If not, I'm closing the list. And now I wanted to welcome our guests. Hello students and students from the schools of the Oliczycko-Sejdziszów County, winners of competitions and Olympics. These are the best students, the best students who achieve the best results in schooling. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]] The first question is asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron, PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Amendments to the Civil Procedure Code Act are designed to improve civil proceedings. This is the goal, such a fundamental, proposed change. The specific provisions that we see in the bill's draft amendment are actually going in the right direction. Lower costs of conduct, placing emphasis on amicable settlement, preventing obstruction - these are solutions that I think are going very well in order to improve the procedure, to shorten them, already at an initial stage, to bring about an amicable solution. I have a question because these are quite important changes: What is planned if we adopt these laws, vacathio legis? Will there be longer periods for these provisions as regards the possibility of adjustment, and how does the Ministry plan to implement these provisions specifically? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Does the preferential nature of the fee introduced in 2016 not favour only one group of consumers, i.e. bank clients, excluding consumers in disputes with ZUS, developers, loan companies? Is it planned to extend the consumer group from which the fixed fee will be charged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u79	Thank you very much, sir. And here you go, Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You left the PiS club, but he spoke, asking a question about lower costs. I don't think he's quite read it, because there's an offer that's more than 20,000. zł is 5% And the maximum bet goes up from 100,000. Up to 200,000. However you count, it's more. But I have a question about the proposed article. 203: The basis for the charge of set-off may be only the defendant's claim from the same legal relationship as the claimant's claim, unless the defendant's claim is uncontested or based on a document which is not exclusively based on the defendant. Tell me, Minister, how it will speed things up. After all, on receipt of the enforcement title, the other party will bring an action against enforcement and claim that it has a claim. This brings about another new process, which means that the whole machine will start, the whole formal and substantive procedure will start again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Everyone says it's a bad record. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u81	Thank you very much, Marshal. Please answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will briefly address the questions of your Members. The first is Mr Gawron's question about vacathio legis. Vacatio legis, with such an extensive submission, is difficult to be uniform, therefore we have for specific solutions foreseen and shorter, and longer periods after which the Act starts to work. So, responding as quickly as possible, in principle we propose as a government, that the High House accept the three-month vacathio legis, but there are also derogations from this in plus and in minus. The derogations of a longer term proposal concern, for example, issues relating to computerisation, which requires time, preparation, shorter periods are also foreseen here, in particular 14-day periods. In general, we wanted this bill to enter as quickly as possible and feasible, but with such a comprehensive submission we could not propose this typical vacathio legis 14 days. There were demands here to predict six months or nine months of vacathio legis, which, due to the size of the presentation, could be understood in some way, but on the other hand, since these are changes which are intended to speed up judicial proceedings, i.e. changes which citizens will feel, it would be incomprehensible if we proposed delaying these good changes in the Polish civil process when they entered into force. We thought that three months was a minimum period that was enough to get acquainted with the amendment, especially since it was quite long prepared and quite long followed. Longer - it would be incomprehensible, shorter - it would be simply impossible to adopt the amendment as a whole. As far as the question by Mr Goncier is concerned, it is not even a fixed fee there, it is only the upper limit of the fee set at 1 000. zł. She deals with disputes concerning bank relations, whether there will be any further groups included, groups of cases covered by this solution, i.e. The idea is that the 5-percent rule is maintained, but with a maximum limit. We'll be watching reality, needs. This is a derogation from the general principle that, however, 5% of the value of the subject matter of the dispute is paid and if no one can afford to stand, the court may grant exemption from judicial costs, so any reduction in the amount of the charge is a derogation from that principle and it is only in particularly socially justified cases that such limitation is worth introducing, such a proposal should be presented to the High House. I'm sure the social problem is credit relations, especially the problem of the franchise. We felt that it was important to meet the social expectations in this area. I do not rule out that, in the future, such solutions will also be proposed for other groups, but we do not see such a need today. I stress, because it has already been said today that the exemption from judicial costs is a universal institution that serves to ensure that non-essential persons have access to the court. And certainly, if this condition of inability to bear the costs of court without prejudice to the maintenance necessary for the applicant and his family is present, the court is required to grant such an exemption, which means that it is the Treasury, that is, all of us taxpayers, that will finance this process, which the person who is not in possession will want to start and continue. As regards the question of Mrs Dolniak, the charge of set-off, the possibility of procedural recourse to the charge of set-off, as you are well aware, has already existed in the Polish legal system, in the old separate proceedings in economic matters, even at some point has been tightened up, i.e. what is now proposed in the submission, is a return to something that was good. Why was that good? Not because, as it is said here, we artificially force people to multiply the number of processes, because if we have mutual settlements, there are situations in which two processes will have to take place by limiting the charge of deduction. The point is that the charge of deduction has been used over the years to block proceedings against claims that do not raise greater doubts. The point was that when it was necessary to pay, very often to invent the claim which is presented to be deducted, to build it into a legend, to submit to it evidence requests in the form of witnesses and experts, and to force the court and the adversary to make this procedure spread, because there is an expert opinion, because it is still possible to apply for exemption from costs in this opinion, etc., etc. Your marshal was a judge, I was also a judge, I was an economic judge in Warsaw, so I really know what I'm talking about, I met with it every day in the Warsaw business courts where I ruled. And it was just a situation that caused the length of the proceedings, which caused that someone who had an undisputed amount of money, because of such procedural smartness, because otherwise it could not be defined, could not obtain this money by judicial procedure, because on the other hand there was quite a good lawyer or legal counsel who created the legend. as regards the existence of a claim submitted for deduction. In fact, that legal situation and today's legal situation have caused the length of proceedings, causing the inability to claim legitimate claims. Since the main motive for this submission is to eliminate the obstruction of proceedings, to eliminate all that slows down the procedure, it was impossible not to go back to the previous solution, which just limited the possibility of taking advantage of the charge of set-off. That's what kept the trials going. Of course, you can probably find situations where the charge of deduction wasn't a destructive charge, but a real one, but it's all a matter of scale. It is not unusual, however, that procedural law introduces certain limitations as regards the possibility of using material law charges, as is the case with the charge of deduction. This is absolutely in line with the general idea of this code. The point is to give judges and courts tools that will enable them to overcome influence efficiently, to deal with human affairs, business matters. Thus, the possibility of making unfettered use of the charge of deduction would mean that many good changes that we are proposing here would be offset by ordinary, vulgar procedural shrewdness. Thank you very much. [[And the cost?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u83	Thank you very much. In the mode of correcting your Marshal Barbara Dolniak. I wanted to welcome the students and teachers from the Agricultural School Team. Władysław Grabski in Grudziądz. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]] Now, I ask you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u84	First, about the costs. You didn't answer that at all, Minister, because it's hard to answer the question that you're raising costs. But I'm gonna take the hit-and-run. Listen to how the Minister has justified the issue that the possibility of deduction is now limited because there are imaginary claims to deduct. But it is a matter of court to demand appropriate evidence and to conduct proceedings in this area, not to be conned, as you claim, and in this respect has experience from his own judicial work that such situations have occurred. By introducing this solution, you deprive the rights of those who make a fair claim to deduct, have evidence that their claim is justified. As for the fact, Minister, that there are situations where a person claims a non-existent claim to be deducted, the situation can be reversed: and the reason sometimes makes a lawsuit that is not justified. But you can't deprive citizens of the right to claim a deduction, [[♪ The bell ♪]] if you can do it in the process. Negative cases do not justify deprivation of rights for those who have a fair claim. [[The scale of these cases. The Minister told me about the scale.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u85	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I refer this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes (prints No 3413 and 3445). I would very much like to ask Mr Robert Warwas to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u86	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Commission! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the government draft law amending the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes. The draft is contained in Seym printing No 3413 and the committee's report - in print No 3445. Ladies and gentlemen! Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 8 May 2019 the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this project at its meeting on 16 May, invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. During the committee meeting, the Legislative Bureau submitted a number of comments and doubts, both legislative and editorial. The three amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau were accepted without comments, while the remaining ones, because they were very complex and, most importantly, were of a substantive nature and not only editorial but not legislative nature, were not accepted. Especially since they weren't written either. Finally, it was agreed that any comments and doubts would be analysed in detail and possibly reported in the Sejm during the second reading of the draft law. High Izbo! In connection with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, the proposed bill aims at minimum harmonisation of supervisory and management rules and at facilitating the mobility of workers between Member States of the European Union. The solutions put in place will enable occupational pension funds to undertake cross-border activities, which is important in the context of increasing labour mobility in the European Union. The next expected result is to improve the access of participants and potential participants in occupational pension schemes to reliable information on them and, consequently, to contribute to more informed decisions by the persons concerned. In addition, it is expected that the implementation of the proposed solutions will improve the process of exchanging key information between the staff funds, supervisory authorities and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. In summary, participants in occupational pension schemes will have access to more understandable, comprehensive information on their powers. The level of security of investment will be improved in connection with the introduction of adequate remuneration policies and investment policy principles, as well as the mobility of workers by enabling occupational pension funds to carry out cross-border activities. The proposed solutions do not affect the competitiveness of the economy and entrepreneurship. However, they have an impact on the activities of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are active in the Polish labour market of pension societies. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I recommend that the High Sejm adopt the report of the committee in Parliament's printing No 3445. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u87	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Teresa Wargock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes, contained in prints No 3413 and 3445. High Seym! The bill concerns the amendment of the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes. This is a project which is the implementation of Directive 2016/2341 of the European Parliament. The proposed law fully complies with the obligation to transpose the directive. As regards the scope of application of the bill in Poland, it covers two occupational pension funds managed by employee pension societies: Employee Pension Fund Nowy Świat and Employee Pension Fund Orange Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! With the proposed labour solutions, pension funds will be able to take up cross-border activities, which is important in the context of the increasing mobility of European Union workers. The new footnotes will make it easier for participants and potential participants in occupational pension schemes to access more understandable and reliable information. The level of investment security will be improved in connection with the implementation of appropriate remuneration policies and the adoption of appropriate investment policy principles. As far as the scope of this law is concerned, it includes, in particular, extending the information obligations of occupational pension funds, introducing changes to their management system, investing in new types of European financial instruments. Law and Justice believes that it is very important to regulate cross-border movements of workers and the consequences of such movements of a staff nature for the pension insurance system and occupational schemes. Trade unions have also drawn attention to this issue, which have been putting pressure on the European institutions for a long time. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to submit an amendment to the bill. These amendments are mainly editorial and clarification changes. In view of the above, I ask that the High Sejm continue its work on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u89	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you so much for the corrections. Please, Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u90	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The proposed law aims to implement the provisions of Directive (EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2014 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The increasing mobility of workers, as well as the increasing provision of work in other countries of the European Union, require adaptation of occupational forms of long-term savings. However, the Polish government, in advance reluctant to European integration, does not present commitment to the creation of a legal framework allowing for real compliance with the requirements of cross-border pension funds. The solutions introduced are expected to improve the access of participants and potential participants in occupational pension schemes to reliable information on group forms of savings and thus contribute to more informed decisions by the stakeholders. However, in this respect, it is clear that the government does not attach due importance to the challenges of labour mobility. The proposed regulation is a necessary minimum seemingly transposing into the Polish legal order the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. In view of the social security challenges of migrant workers, much more could be expected from the Polish authorities. The proposed solution will not allow the transfer of pension savings collected by Poles in other countries. It will not make it possible for several million Poles who benefit from the European Union's common labour market to transfer their funds, developed themselves, to pension products in Poland. The regulation of workers' movements in the common labour market and the consequences for the occupational pension scheme and the labour programmes is one of the main challenges for public authorities. Otherwise, many Poles may never benefit from the money they earn. Dear Minister, Can't the bill that the government was over 3 years old be more refined? The deadline for the adoption of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary for the implementation of the Directive expired on 19 January 2019. The Legislative Office has tabled several dozen amendments, and you did not even want to hear the legislators asking for amendments in writing. At this point I will remind you that it is the Sejm of the Republic of Poland who has the control function of the government, and not the other way around, and the Legislative Office ensures that the regulations adopted are correct. The incorrect alignment of the law with the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, in haste and without hearing the substantive comments, makes it possible to obtain a legal buble, which requires many amendments. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the fact that the law is needed and that the deadline for implementing these provisions has expired, a decision on the possible support of the draft of this law will be taken after the second reading and after the evaluation of the further process of the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u91	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz club15. There isn't. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. There's no envoy. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern. There isn't. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes, prints No 3413 and 3445. The purpose of the proposed law is to implement Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. The proposed rules aim to facilitate the movement of workers between Member States of the European Union. Regulation of cross-border IORPs and facilitate coordination of supervisory practices of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. As the project promoters point out, there are currently two entities in Poland that can be considered as IORPs. It is the Employee Pension Fund Nowy Świat and the Employee Pension Fund Orange Poland and it is within the scope of the presented project. The bill introduces regulations and definitions that have not yet functioned in the Polish legal order. In addition, it imposes new obligations on employees' pension societies, such as the obligation to prepare and operate an internal management and control system and the obligation to document their own risk assessment. It also introduces rules on the cross-border activities of the pension fund. I have no doubt that this project is expected. Today's ease of movement of workers, including between countries, makes it very important to regulate the related issues and the impact this has on the social security and pension systems of a working nature and on the labour programmes. As provided by the applicant's representative at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, this project was agreed in the course of a public and inter-ministerial consultation. In view of the announcement of the preparation of the amendments taking into account the additional comments of the Legislative Bureau and the submission of these amendments during the reading of the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, he is in favour of reconsidering the draft at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u93	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Acts on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and on occupational pension schemes - adopted on 28 August 1997 following intensive negotiations in the Tripartite Commission on The social and economic sectors and the signing of the agreement on 14 April 1997 were the basis for the reform of the social security system. Poland's entry into the European Union has indicated the need for cross-border solutions for the functioning of occupational pension schemes. The European Trade Union Confederation has highlighted this by exerting pressure to introduce an appropriate directive on this issue. My question concerns the equalisation of workers' rights regardless of their nationality. Will the termination of the employment contract not generate loss [[♪ The bell ♪]] rights in respect of contributions paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u95	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask how many Poles working in the European Union benefit from occupational pension plans. What is the scale, how many are there compared to the number of employees? That was my first question, and the second question is yes. Recently, when the Sejm debated the Act on Employee Capital Plans in the pension market, the interest in occupational retirement plans increased. Is it true and what is the scale of this phenomenon? The press clearly points out that the actions have taken the opposite direction. Instead of employee capital plans, the interest in employee pension schemes has increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u97	Thank you very much, Member. I wanted to warmly welcome another group of young people today: students of the School Complex from Spychów, Warmia and Mazury. We cordially welcome the young people to the Sejm. [[Applause]] And now, please, Mr Jarosław Goncier, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is: How will the proposed regulation affect the labour market in Poland? Will this impact be positive or negative, and in what professional areas should it take place? Was there any analysis in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u99	Thank you very much, sir. The last question will be asked by Mr Ireneus Raś, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask and ask the Minister to clarify the discrepancy between the directive and the proposed amendment you are proposing today in the Sejm. The Sejm Analysis Office showed as many as seven differences and asked you to take a stand on this matter. I have not read what this is about and what is the justification for the omission or introduction of provisions that concern these divergences - these seven differences. The Sejm Analysis Office has shown a lack of reference to this case, which makes us think, as Mrs Frydrych said, that this law was prepared on the knee and will not be precise, because there will be gaps in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u101	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Marcin Zielenecki to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u102	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I will try to address the questions that were asked during the discussion. Mrs Tomaszewska, in drawing up the genesis of the law on the organisation and functioning of pension funds, rightly pointed out that since the provisions of this law were adopted and later the law on the organisation and functioning of pension funds was adopted, much has happened. First of all, Poland became a member of the European Union and had access to, you can say, labour markets of other Member States of the European Union, which resulted in the mobility of workers, taking up work by Polish workers in other Member States of the European Union. The question was whether the termination of the worker's employment relationship or the employee who is a member of the occupational pension scheme meant the need to transfer funds, return funds. This issue is, of course, already regulated in the Employee Pension Schemes Act today, and it can be said that there is no automation here. I mean, these measures are to be at the disposal of a member of the occupational pension scheme when he reaches the age of 60. And this principle, so to speak, still applies, which means that these funds will only be available to the participant when it reaches that age limit. Regarding Mrs Czernow's question about the number of Poles who... She asked about the number of Poles who are working in other Member States of the European Union, but who are also members of the occupational pension scheme. Perhaps I will answer this question a little differently, because I can give you data about... in the course of the discussion, and this information was provided here. In fact, this bill that we are discussing today concerns, firstly, persons who are participants in occupational pension schemes, but, secondly, this second element is very important, the point is that they are occupational pension schemes carried out in the form of an occupational pension fund. Hence, the bill provides for changes in two regulations, in two laws, i.e. it is in the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and, on the other hand, in the Act on occupational pension schemes. The latter law has a slightly shorter history because it was passed in 2004. Such schemes, which meet both conditions, i.e. they are occupational pension schemes and are carried out in the form of an occupational pension fund, at the moment we have two in Poland. These are the Workers' Pension Fund Nowy Świat and the Workers' Pension Fund Orange Poland. As far as the number of participants in these programmes is concerned, this is about 32 000. persons. As regards the amount of funds managed by both occupational pension societies, this is a envelope of PLN 1 808 931 137.30. I would like to point out that this law only applies to this category of persons. This law gives these people the opportunity to work in another Member State of the European Union without, you can say, damage to savings accumulated so far in the occupational pension scheme. She also pointed out that in Poland, in the context of, above all, employee capital plans or the entry into force of the Act on Employee Capital Plans, the interest of Poles in saving under additional programmes, plans to raise funds to be used after retirement age or around the age of retirement. I confirm that such interest is indeed being observed at the moment. The number of new occupational pension schemes that have been created recently is around 300. As regards the issue of the impact of this law on the labour market, in general, the assessment of the effects of the regulation annexed to the draft law indicates that this law will not affect the labour market. However, I would like to talk about some benefits. First of all, the benefits for these 32 000. participants in occupational pension schemes are the benefits of greater security of measures, but also the possibility of taking up work in another Member State of the European Union without, as it were, interrupting the process of saving in occupational pension schemes. Mr Raś asked me about the discrepancies, and you also paid attention to this during the discussion. So I'm going to say that the work on this bill has been going on for a long time. Indeed, the deadline for implementation, which was written in the Act itself, is 13 January 2019. But I would like to say that the legislative process was launched on 21 August 2018, so that, I repeat, the work lasted quite long. This work also included the process of agreeing with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, agreement on compliance with European Union law and arrangements on the issue of the full implementation of this Directive in national law. I would like to say that the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the full compatibility of this bill is decisive for us. I state that we have no doubts here about the possible discrepancy with the provisions of the Directive. I think I answered those questions you asked during the discussion. I would like to ask the High House again for further work on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u103	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment is necessary in view of Directive 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2014 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. The Directive explicitly clarifies the harmonisation of supervisory and management rules and the organisation of institutions for occupational retirement provision, the facilitation of labour mobility between Member States of the European Union, the regulation of cross-border activities of IORPs and the facilitation of coordination of supervisory practices of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. The proposed amendment includes amendments to the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes. The process of agreeing and consulting was launched in 2018. a project which has been submitted to representative employers' organisations, representative trade union organisations, managers of occupational pension funds and industry organisations in the financial market: the Chamber of Commerce of pension societies, the Polish Insurance Chamber, the Board of Directors of the Funds and Assets. These comments did not make any major comments. Therefore, the PSL club will support the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u105	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Waste Act and certain other laws (prints No 3412 and 3464). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on a government draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The draft is contained in print No 3412 and the committee's report in print No 3464. This draft law clarifies the provisions on the functioning of the database on products and packaging and on waste management, called waste data base in a nutshell. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In particular, the Law of 14 December 2012 on Waste, but also the Law on Cleanliness and Order in Municipalities, the Act on Environmental Law, the Act on Obligations of Entrepreneurs in the Management of Certain Wastes and on Product Fee, the Act on Batteries and Battery, the Act on Packaging and Packaging Waste Management, the Act on Used Electrical and Electronic Equipment, and the Act on Amendment of the Waste Act and some other Acts and the latest Act on Amendment of the Act on Personal Evidence and Certain Other Acts are amended. High Izbo! The waste data base following the changes made in November 2017 has three modules: the waste database register, the reporting and the waste records module. The first one, the entry in the register, was launched on 23 January 2018 and subsequent modules will be launched from 1 January 2020. Then only electronic handling of applications for registration will be possible, and the operation of the system for entities included in this database will be in electronic form, using an individual account. It will then be possible for traders to abolish the obligation to attach original documents to the application, such as proof of payment of the registration fee, certificates issued by banks keeping accounts for the organisation of the recovery of electrical and electronic equipment to the payment of the amount to cover the share capital of the recovery organisation, as well as a document confirming the payment of the financial security. It will also be possible to provide a database of waste documents confirming the collection, recovery and recycling of packaging waste, waste electrical and electronic equipment, waste batteries and accumulators and waste from lubricating oils and tyres. In the provisions amending the Waste Act, contained in Article. 1 of the project in question, models of registration forms for reports and documents that have so far been specified in the Waste Act regulations will be replaced by specifying the scope of the information of these forms and documents directly in the Waste Act, i.e. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1, Article Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, Article 73. 2, Article 74. 2, Article 74a, Art. Article 75 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 - those are the provisions for which further amendments to Article are made. 1. These changes, which meet the requirements of the regulations I quote, will only be made available through the waste database system. Amendment 28. in Article. 1 contains, in turn, an amendment to the expenditure rule covering the costs of producing and maintaining the waste database in 2019 and 2028. This amount is broken down into individual amounts, but in total it is 45 444 thousand. zł. Similarly, the law on maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities will be amended. Amendments shall be made to Article. 9n paragraph. 3, Article 9th paragraph. 3, Article 9nb paragraph. 3, Article Paragraph 9o. 3, Article 9oa, Art. 9p paragraph. 1, Article Article 9q (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply. 3, Article Paragraph 9s. 3, Article 9t. These changes aim to effectively control the management of municipal waste in municipalities in terms of the amount of such waste, the way in which it is managed. In addition, keeping records of municipal waste reporting in electronic form, i.e. through the waste database, it will enable both a thorough analysis of the situation in this area and an assessment of the achievement of the recycling targets set by European legislation. Always an electronic form of document circulation facilitates all analytical activities. High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4, 5, 6 and 7 also introduce provisions extending the waste database to include a module covering the collection, recovery and recycling of waste batteries and accumulators, packaging waste, waste electrical and electronic equipment and waste from lubricating oils and tyres. The revised rules will allow the identification of entities entering the waste database on the basis of the PESEL number, which is relevant for small waste producers, i.e. entities such as natural persons carrying out an activity from which the income does not exceed 50% the amount of the minimum remuneration, or e.g. flat-rate farmers who produce packaging waste or related to the self-service of machinery or equipment which are obliged to keep records of waste and are therefore required to obtain an entry in the register as a waste producer. These small waste producers do not always have a tax identification number and, as you know, a law on the rules of registration and identification of taxpayers and payers requires that it be either a NIP number or a PESEL number. So these small waste producers will be able to be identified on the basis of the PESEL number. These changes are contained in Article. 9 and 10 of the draft I am discussing here in the report of the Environment Committee. Further articles of the project, i.e. Article 2 11.20, contain transitional and adaptation provisions. Art. The provisions concerning changes to the register, the keeping of waste records and the method of drawing up and reporting for which the existing provisions apply by the end of 2019, but for the records of waste referred to in Article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Waste Act, the existing provisions will also apply after 2019. In accordance with the transitional provisions set out in Article. The existing rules will apply until the end of 2020 to documents confirming separate recovery and recycling, on the basis of existing waste management laws, on the basis of the Act on batteries and accumulators, the Act on waste electrical and electronic equipment and on the basis of the Act on packaging and packaging waste management. As stated in the article. 21 of the draft, the Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of the provisions contained in the amendments 1 to 3 lit. a, from 4. to 11., from 13. to 16., 18 to 20., 21st lit. A, 22, 23 and 26. These are the changes in the article. 1 which are the exception for the date of entry into force. The provisions in Article will also be an exception. Point 5 of Article 2 8 and 9 which shall enter into force on 1 January 2020 Another exception is the amendments contained in Article. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. High Izbo! In short, this is the draft law that I am presenting on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. On behalf of this committee, I ask the High House to adopt the draft law contained in the report of the Committee on Printing No 3464. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u107	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, the first Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the club Law and Justice about the government draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws, prints No 3412 and 3464. The draft amendment to the Waste Act of 14 December 2012, hereinafter referred to as the Waste Act, results from the need to clarify the provisions relating to the operation of the BDO database on products, packaging and waste management. The project concerns a revision of the expenditure rule concerning the funds of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The draft law proposes to keep waste records only electronically from 1 January 2020 through an individual BDO account and to refrain from using paper form of documents. The announcement by the voivodship marshal about the activation of the account in the register and about the login and password given to the system will take place electronically. This will be confirmed by the Marshal of the voivodship, either by registering or by listing the information in the register. It is very important to clarify in the case of suppliers of waste for storage and landfill managers. Documents relating to the basic characteristics of waste and the results of the conformity tests will continue to be carried out and transmitted in paper form. Reservation: electronic form of application will not apply to entities, foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons involved in economic trade who have not established a branch in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The facilitation for entrepreneurs resulting from the changes is the abolition of the obligation to deliver the originals and to replace them with copies attached to the application for registration. It is also interesting to include documents submitted together with an application for entry in the BDO register within an individual account created for a given entity. The implementation of the BDO electronic reporting module will take place from 1 January 2020 at the latest. A regulation has been added which provides that for a specific type of waste in the BDO system it will be possible to identify their manufacturer and subsequent holders of the waste concerned. The costs of establishing, implementing and maintaining the BDO system will be covered by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The possibility of electronic transmission by the BDO system of documents confirming the collection, recovery and recycling of packaging waste, waste from lubricating oils and tyres, waste electrical and electronic equipment and waste batteries and accumulators has been introduced. There is also a transitional provision indicating that the existing waste records will be applied by the end of 2019 as a fundamental change in the way waste records are kept is expected from 1 January 2020. It is very important to align the expenditure rule with the revised timetable for the BDO system, which has been established for a period of 10 years, for the years 2016 to 2025. The draft revised legislation will have a positive impact on the activities of small, medium and large enterprises. These solutions that we are currently discussing are consistent with European Union legislation. The Law and Justice Club also makes 20 technical and clarification amendments and gives a positive opinion on the amendments in question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u109	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Paul Suski, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, I would like to welcome a trip from Ełk - the Salesian oratory with guardians and a school. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u110	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Salo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club regarding the draft amendment to the Waste Act and other laws, originally print No 3412. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of records of waste and packaging producers has been regulated in the fundamental draft law, which has been in force since 2012. Those regulations were prepared by the Civic Platform and PSL, the government that introduced the whole waste management system. He also made it compulsory to register those entities referred to by the Act, to local governments of voivodships, after which, as a consequence, he proposed to tender for the creation of a database at the level of the Minister of the Environment. The law and justice have annulled this tender. It was the first step to a buck far nonte - sweet nothing-doing. Nothing really happened until today. I'm really glad there's this project. This is a technical project that is complicated, which concerns complex matter. He must be passed, he should have been passed much earlier. The State, if it is necessary to dismantle the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court, is capable of carrying out a law in a very rapid manner within a dozen hours... [[Let's get to the point, sir. Mr. President, please focus on... your marshal...]] ...on the other hand, about something that concerns citizens... Mrs Paluch is trying to knock me out of my rhythm and disturb me. Your Marshal, if you wouldn't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u111	I would very much like to ask the Member to remain calm. The Member continues his speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u112	Thank you very much. I did not disturb the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u113	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u114	The problem is that such complicated matter concerns littered Poland, because it is true that Poland has become a dump in Europe in the last 3 years, landfills of garbage are burning. This is the result of a lack of close records. Because what does this amendment make? He's about to declare war on the gray trash area. It is this project that will allow the garbage mobs and those entities that work incorrectly - either bury or store the garbage and then unknowingly burn these landfills or for unknown reasons they burn. High Izbo! Law and Justice is great for tearing down, but certainly not for building. You can't make decisions that are meant to serve the good of the people. We will pay, we are already paying very high costs for the export and disposal of waste, and as a result we will probably pay even higher. I therefore call for us to adopt the project as soon as possible. This is a project that is being corrected again - I hear about 20 amendments. [[Technical.]] So even though he hasn't been properly prepared for four years, he'll still be corrected. We need to focus on good work so that waste disposal costs stop growing. Poles expect it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u115	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15. [[Very unsubstantiated, sir - politically but not substantively.]] Madame, I ask you to remain calm. [[Voice from the hall: That's what the platform is for.]] [[ADHD.]] Calm down, please. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 against the government draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws, print No 3412. The bill shows the legislative negligence of the applicants who present further versions of the Waste Act, because it turns out that they forgot something or missed something before. The case is so ridiculous and serious that it is a government project. It would seem that there are professionals working in the community department who are able to predict the consequences or lack of legal solutions. The 20 amendments to be made to this law prove that there are no such experts. However, many doubts arise in connection with the practice and legislation relating to waste management. Some of them concern absurd rules, such as those requiring the location of the monitoring not fully taking into account the specific characteristics of the waste concerned. For example, those businesses that are hard to suspect of illegal activities are complaining about this, e.g. Azot group. However, the worst part of all this is that the investigation into massively burning landfills of various types of waste has still not been completed, e.g. in Trzebini and Zgierz. Polish investigative services are slow. Is this because such cases involve people from the former post-aesbek system, local self-government or people from international criminal circles? Moreover, they are investigating the acquisition of information about individuals, e.g. citizens' journalists, revealing such information, not the content of the information they provide. That's the way it is. for journalists of the Pressmania portal. pl, who took care of the burning landfill in Zgierz. It's very serious. Carcinogenic hydrocarbons enter the atmosphere as a result of burning outdoor waste. According to estimates of people related to environmental protection, the landfill fire in Zgierz could have released as many as 10 times as much dioxins, aliphatic hydrocarbons and aromatic hydrocarbons into the atmosphere as all old furnaces in Kraków apartments for a total of 25 years. That's what environmentalists should do. They should arrange pickets before the landfill or the buildings of the investigating authorities. This is the real scale of the threat. Burning landfills increases the incidence of cancer. Meanwhile, investigations are conducted locally. The leaders are unable to see where the octopus is, where the octopus has its head. They only cut the tentacles that appear from time to time. Burning evidence also means at least making it difficult to determine the waste producer or to prevent it at all. All the signs in the sky indicate that a wave of burning landfills can happen again. This is demonstrated by the last series of burning smaller landfills. There are other threats. The sites are smaller, more scattered, so that few people can be interested in them. In case of interest in the fact that the landfill is on fire, for example. In Wadowice, it is a local cardboard factory, local self-government units make it difficult, even Members, to obtain information about landfills. Why? Has the authorisation process not complied with the rules, or does the storage site have much more capacity than the permit implies and no one is supervising it? Another example is the landfill in Pyszająca, Śrem municipality, which burned seven times from June 2017 to February 2019. The characteristic thing is that at the turn of 2018 and 2019, there were as many as five such cases as if someone intentionally was blowing up traces of their activities. On a national scale, such day-to-day or two-day fires may not be impressive, but on a local scale it is a huge problem for the environment, especially since the environmental consequences of these fires cannot be dealt with by local local authorities without the help of the Ministry of the Environment. Of course, such examples could be presented much more. The worst part is that previously the Civic Platform created the conditions for a Polish landfill, and now the PiS does not allow this mess to be cleaned up, even if by blocking the meeting of the Environmental Protection Committee it is possible to analyse the work of the Environmental Protection Inspections in this area. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With regard to the proposed amendment to the law, I would like to say that we will support this law after reading the proposed amendments if they are in line with our position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u117	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u118	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present the position and suggestions of the club with regard to the law amending the Waste Act and some other laws, prints No 3412 and 3464. As the rapporteur said in her speech, the document is very comprehensive and important, as it concerns the next stage of the struggle to create a system of control over waste management. This is a very important and difficult episode. All these issues, the projects, the conditions to be followed are to deal with changes in nine laws. They also apply to domestic and foreign entities. The Member has presented this very precisely, so you will allow me not to go into it so precisely. Why, then, 20 amendments that have been tabled to the government's draft at this stage of legislation? I ask myself: Are we debating a project in print 3412 and the other one... [[Not anymore.]] ...or tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, because the sentences are unexplored, will we accept a completely different document during the vote? This is a comprehensive and important issue, and we have 20 amendments. We already know that one can make sense. Why now? It's been four years. All this time I've heard, even though I'm in the Seym for the first time, that my group has been doing badly for eight years. It's been four years now. In the fourth year, there's suddenly an acceleration. [[Nothing.]] I therefore ask the following question: Will what we are building, this bureaucratic pier, meet these expectations? Isn't life gonna write new scenarios again? Will it not turn out that there will continue to be entities which, in a less legal or illegal way, will be involved in the collection, storage of waste, and those who are willing to cooperate with such entities will continue to rent halls and will then be in trouble only for this reason? Will, Minister, this system we're building technically be efficient and complete? Will we already be able to master both estimation, economy and financial accounts in terms of IT at this level? Next question: Will marshals' offices, marshals' offices manage organisationally and financially to regulate these issues on an ongoing basis? It is certainly worthwhile and necessary to strengthen the waste management system in terms of both collection, disposal and monitoring. As a club, we are in favour of carrying out activities that allow us to master this difficult area, to put it into the legal and legislative framework, but we will wait with the final vote or decision until the amendments are read. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u120	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I would like to present a statement on the government draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws, prints No 3412 and 3464. I think a lot has been said about this project. He's very important. The aim of the project is to clarify the provisions relating to the functioning of the database on products and packaging and on waste management. The proposal amends as many as nine waste laws. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with all the previous speakers that this is one of the most important waste management projects, but it is important to stress that today we are dealing with technical issues, and in fact landfills are burning, tires burning, paint burning, the most toxic waste. They constantly pollute the Polish environment and cause Poles to die because of respiratory problems, because of smog, because it obviously contributes to air pollution in Poland. Over the last four months, 62 waste burns in landfills, several times, so I think this is a topic that we should mainly be dealing with, which doesn't mean that we should put off this project. The entrepreneurs who came to us about this project asked us these questions: Will this system actually be working properly as of January 2020? Will entrepreneurs be able to prepare their employees for their service when they have only six months left? What equipment will it be necessary to equip vehicles, waste facilities? Minister Kowalczyk promises that at the end of September and October entrepreneurs will be able to check into the database. In addition, the Minister promises information training 3 months before the entry into force of the waste records system. It is, of course, far, far too late, at the last moment, but we will hold the Minister's word. According to experts, due to transitional provisions and transfers of funds, the full functionality of BDO is to be expected in the years 2023 to 2025. This will result in a lack of possibility to draw conclusions from the content of the database, because in order for it to meet its objective, a reporting sequence would be needed together with a description of the format reported from the data records, a pattern of links with the waste records and a model of waste reports suitable for entry into the information systems. Ladies and gentlemen, we were planning to vote in favour of the project because its aim is to seal the system of waste records, to control waste, is right and should be implemented urgently, but today we have received 20 amendments. It's not even in the hand, it's in here. We don't see these corrections. Perhaps this project, as my previous speakers have said, will look completely different and our speeches are completely pointless. We don't know what this project is gonna look like, so we're gonna be wondering. We're hoping that the PiS didn't introduce some kind of bomb here and that this project will at least look what it looks like. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u121	Thank you, Member. That's what we ended up doing on behalf of the clubs. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list for that. You are beginning Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15 Here you go, one minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, You don't really listen to businessmen or citizens. If I asked the Minister what steps the Ministry took to protect citizens from the practice of illegal waste disposal, from burning landfills, the Minister would give us the various types of legislation on which work was being carried out in the Sejm. You'd lean on it, or you'd say it's not the minister's department, it's the D.A.'s office and the police, just to conduct a fair investigation. But the problem is really serious, and it's a growing problem. From the information I received from the voters, it appears that e.g. There are dozens of illegal landfills, landfills and excavations in the district of Sremsk. Such an example is plot 240, border Lucina, the municipality of Śrem, where no one has noticed that the excavation has been mined there for years, and the excavation is covered with unknown origin with materials. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such examples, as I said before, I could simply multiply, Minister. Anyway, we're doing this as an interpellation, but nobody really listens to us, because you just don't listen to the citizens either. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u123	Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u124	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! Is the so-called introduction envisaged? extended producer responsibility, i.e. participation in the costs of the municipal waste management system of traders placing goods and packaging on the market so that the costs of collection, segregation and recycling of packaging and packaging waste obtained by municipal waste management systems are fully compensated? The current system of financing the municipal waste management system is based on a local fee charged to local residents, while the financial share of packaging producers and traders placing packaging on the market is zero. Is the government going to make a difference in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Entrepreneurs involved in the collection and segregation of waste are alarmed. Nobody's been picking up plastic for a long time. Instead of being recycled, these wastes are stored in different locations. And then what? When is there a system or a solution that will allow plastic to be recycled? How long can waste be stored? This will promote the adverse phenomena that occur, namely the landfill fires. Because how long can you keep it? And then what? I simply expect the Minister's reply on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u127	Thank you very much, Member. And I invite Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding with this law in order to clarify the provisions concerning the electronic database on products and packaging and waste management. Undoubtedly, moving away from the paper version of documents and introducing electronic waste records and reporting will be a great convenience. Nevertheless, I wanted to ask why it was so late, since the deadline under the Waste Act expired on 24 January 2018. The modules that are now being created should in principle be implemented. The amendment will guarantee the elimination of the grey zone, but the tardiness on the part of the PiS is amazing to me. Minister! What did you do about the burning of landfills? What kind of action did you take? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u129	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! By means of a procedated draft law, the Act on waste electrical and electronic equipment shall be amended in such a way that the operator of the processing plant draws up a certificate of waste equipment for the previous calendar year through an individual account in the database on products and packaging and waste management by 28 February each year for the previous calendar year. I would just like to ask if, according to this record, the operator will also have to provide the same information, perhaps even with addresses of points where used equipment, mayor, mayor, mayor or president competent for the location of the plant was collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u131	Thank you. And another question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that this law is now subject to legal proceedings, but it should have been re-used a long time ago so as to have more supervision over the garbage. However, the problem is with those who are already in the ground. In the Lublin Voivodeship in Strzyżów, in the Nadbuża Region of Protected Landscape, over the largest reservoir of underground water we have a huge, illegal landfill of garbage, which for several years have been simply not recovered. This could contaminate our underground waters for many, many thousands of years. It's just unrecoverable. That's why my question is. How will the Ministry contribute to the urgent disposal of this landfill? Farmers also complain that they have nothing to do with agricultural plastics. And that's another very pressing problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u133	Thank you. And I invite Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2016 and 2017 permits were issued for the import of waste. What's the number? 1435,000. a. Minister! We're dealing with a plague of landfill fires. What action is the Chief Environmental Inspector taking on this issue? Do we know exactly what happens to waste that is imported to Poland? Was that the waste that burned during the last fire plague? What happens to waste that is not suitable for recycling? We also know that there is a phenomenon of illegal transport of waste into Poland, mainly from Germany. In this respect, they do not even deter high penalties, a fine of 80,000. Euros. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's time to take care of this case, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u135	Thank you. Mr Paweł Suski, Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Salo! A good policy is characterized by the fact that the rulers predict what will happen to the state, the nation, what will happen to the Poles in 10, 20, 30 years - how governments will affect our lives over the centuries. Law and Justice don't think in those categories. You're just thinking about what to do to make it to October and how to maintain power. That's the motto. You have introduced a lot of social assistance, among others. a 500+ programme that stimulates consumption. Minister, do you have any idea how much trash production has increased as a result? Recent statistics, two days ago, are talking about a 100-percent increase in large-scale waste that needs to be disposed of in some way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will, of course, affect the costs of functioning of local governments. Do you know that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u137	This question and previous questions will be answered by Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the discussion on the Waste Management Act. In fact, this law concerns the waste management base, the construction of the waste management base. This law, of course, has a history, and it is very good that Mr Suski tried to recall this story. Maybe I'll repeat it just to be clear. Indeed, the Law on the Waste Base passed by the PO-PSL coalition in 2012 imposed certain obligations, but it so happens that from 2012 to 2015 absolutely nothing happened. Nothing happened. The tender prepared by the PO-PSL government was poorly prepared, misproclaimed, withdrawn, that's all you did. [[Like most of the people you've cancelled.]] You've done so much, so saying that we're delaying something here - if I were you, I'd just shut up. I'd just shut up if it didn't do anything for five years, and now I'm saying that we're doing anything. [[The years 2012 and 2015 are 3 years.]] Mr President, it is simply a shame to speak on this subject. [[You've delayed the directive.]] You've delayed everything. Now what? Of course, you have prepared a delay, I won't say, in 2015 there was an amendment to this law, which was moving the deadline. I think that if you were in charge, the waste management base would never have come in because it's bothering a lot of people. I also know what the pressures are and what the obstacles are so that she never comes in and doesn't function. It's easier to catch fish in muddy water. This is the first case. [[So how do you catch these fish?]] We're doing two things right now. We're not discussing. We're doing it. And this waste management base is already being implemented. Of course, not by way of a tender, because by tendering, perhaps IT companies would cause... There would be further appeals, appeals to the National Board of Appeal, to the court and this tender, perhaps in our execution, would last a very long time. That is why we have adopted a solution that is more effective, cheaper, i.e. an order to the Institute of Environmental Protection, our unit, the Ministry of Environment. You could have done it, too, if you wanted, not tried to let some private company take the money out, quite ineffectively, as you can see. So, when at this point you are accusing us of tardiness, as has already been said, Mr Małgorzata Płępek and Mr Małgorzata mentioned tardiness, there are no words at all. Let's just face the facts, the concrete ones. Now, let's get to the point. This bill. Indeed, we will make the waste management base operational from 1 January 2020 because at the moment this base is in the final stage of construction. It's done by the Institute of Environmental Protection. I'll remind you again. From September we should start testing for entrepreneurs. The entrepreneur in test mode will be able to fill this database already. Of course, this will also be a good time for training, as Mrs Ewa Lieder of the Modern One cared about. Yes, there will be training, there will be test programmes so that entrepreneurs will have an easier task from 1 January 2020. So everything that they have been required to do so far in paper form will be done in electronic form. It will certainly be better for them, more efficient, and above all, we will control the waste. It is extremely important that at the moment there is no control over the waste. This is extremely important. [[You've been in charge for four years.]] About the amendments that everyone cared about. If anyone was at the committee meeting, he knows that the legislators have tabled a number of legislative amendments. Sometimes it was a comma, there were other things, but in the amendment formally nothing can be added in a voluntary, voluntary way, etc. [[It's not a comma. We're in the middle of a second reading.]] Hence, among others. These corrections. These are legislative amendments, and I think that all those who had doubts about the content of the amendments and depended on it to support the law will find that the content of the amendments does not really change the idea or the content of the law in any way. We don't build either. Here Mr. Kazimierz Kotowski from PSL spoke, feared that we were building a bureaucratic pier. We are not building a bureaucratic pier, on the contrary, entrepreneurs will have an easier task. Now they have to write this down manually, make lists, paper cards, etc., pass it to the Marshal of the voivodship, and when they fill out the waste base electronically, they won't have to carry anything, they'll just send it, it'll just be a report. Of course, this applies to the Marshal of the voivodship, but other entities will also have an insight into the waste management base. This is also the answer to the question of Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, who asked where this duty would be. Just completing the electronic waste management base is fully fulfilling the obligation that has so far been in paper form. As for the discussion of a bit unrelated to this bill, I will be honest with you, because there were questions about fires, about what we did, etc., I will gladly repeat what we did, and I will gladly tell you what the effects of this action are. It is true that landfills or storage sites are still on fire, but these fires are more than twice as low as they were in the previous year. I think the weather that was, what it was like in May, when there was drought, was more conducive to these fires, and there were more than half of them. So that's the effectiveness. Of course, the effectiveness of the waste protection was included in the laws adopted in July Ub. r., we just have to remember that these laws have set up a system for creating new supervision over existing illegals. These laws miraculously did not cause waste to disappear, which has been lost for many, many years and have been illegally accumulated. Unfortunately, I admit that the problem is still there. No one's ever wanted to face that problem before. The PO-PSL government didn't face this problem either, pretended nothing was happening. We're not pretending nothing's going on. That's the problem we've inventoried. I just remind you that at the moment, I agree, from previous years there are more than 3.5 million tons of waste in illegal landfills of different kinds. These landfills are almost 400,000. And of course we are going to help local governments, because it is the task of local governments. In most cases, local authorities agreed to carry out such waste. These are, as I stress, from many years: from 10, 12, 5 years, from how many years of landfill to a very different range. We are not only responsible for local governments, we want to help them, although the responsibility is actually borne by local governments, because local governments agreed. I'll just give you one example. If the starosta consents to waste management and consents to operate on land that the company leases for a month and a half, this oldosta consents for a month and a half, then why is it surprising that thousands of tons of waste were taken away and abandoned for a month and a half? Well, don't be surprised. Unfortunately, there are cases like this, too. This would not be possible in the new law. Unfortunately, in the old days, this activity was performed. Of course, we think that we need to help, which is why we will be introducing aid, but loan, aid to local governments, of course with some partial remission. Self - government is also responsible for what has been found in them, but they will certainly be able to count on help. That's the way it is with fires. So the effects are significant: by more than half the fires in the previous year in the same period, and the weather is that you would expect a lot, much more. Mr Sachajko asked about one specific landfill. Unfortunately, I'm not gonna answer that here because I need to get ready, see what it is, check it out. On the other hand, as regards the second part of the question about the problem that farmers have, among others. With foils, fertilizer bags, etc., that's what we're running. At the moment, a pilot programme for seven municipalities is in place and there is a collection of this type of waste. We want to help farmers manage this waste, because the worst thing would be if it went to completely illegal places. Once the problem has been calculated, this could be said, i.e. an estimate of the amount of needs and funding needed for assistance in this area, this programme will be extended to the whole country. So, once again, I stress that farmers should wait patiently too, God's weapons do not export these waste to illegal places of storage. [[What kind of communes?]] These are the municipalities in the Ostrów and Ostrłęcki districts in the north of Mazowsze. These municipalities have been indicated because there is a large dairy cattle farm, which is why this plastic problem is most visible. And I think that's... [[What about mine? Plastic?]] Plastic, yeah. And as for the plastic, we're actually going into the future here. In fact, it's not over. tidying up waste management - here fully agreed. This is the next step to make this base happen, because without a base, if we don't have a base, no future action will be effective either. So the base is just a tool. On the other hand, in the waste package, which we are obliged to introduce, we are preparing solutions in the waste package of the European Union, which will, firstly, support selective collection and, secondly, transfer liability to the suppliers of waste, i.e. to introduce a fee for placing packaging of each type on the market. So with these funds, we will want to support local authorities in the waste management system so that really prices for waste are borne minimally by consumers. So these funds will be introduced as a product charge. [[What's up so far? They don't pick up plastic at all.]] It is unfortunately so that plastics are received if there is a proper selective collection of waste. That's what the municipalities should take care of. In municipalities that have a very good selective collection system, plastic waste can even be sold and earned. That's one thing. At a time when plastic is well collected selectively, it is a commodity, just as scrap is a commodity and there is no problem with its disposal. It's the same with plastic. If they are well collected, they can even be sold and not added to their disposal. However, this depends on the selective collection system implemented by the municipalities. There is not yet a general obligation for the municipalities to introduce a selective collection. Each municipality does it itself by adopting a resolution. Most of them have introduced this system since 1 January this year, but there are still ones that haven't. I understand that it is also necessary for municipalities to conduct activities in the field of education in residents, so that this selective collection is a good collection, appropriate so that there is no mixed waste and plastic of all kinds. So for the moment, the only way to save us is to collect the plastic in a good selective way. Then the collected plastic can be recycled. Ladies and gentlemen! Waste management is extremely difficult. The amount of waste per year is increasing. I hope that, at the time of the introduction of the responsibility of the packaging manufacturer or the waste on the market, first, there will be no unlimited supply of waste, and secondly, there will be resources for their development. This is to be based, first, on recycling, i.e. re-use. That's the priority. We will support and finance such activities. Secondly, if nothing else can be done with the waste, the calorie fractions will be used for combustion. The ultimate - I stress once again - is storage. I hope that we will also meet the requirement of the directive and that the quantity of waste stored will be less than 10%. a whole bunch of waste. I will, of course, mention the use of biodegradable waste, i.e. composting plants or biogas plants. It's still ahead of us, but we're already working on it. The Minister of Energy plans, among others. support for biogas plants in order to create a place for the management of biodegradable waste. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u139	Thank you. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna Paluch, will also speak. Before you speak, I would like to say hello to the pupils and carers from the primary school in Chorzele. I wish you a happy stay and enjoyable experience from both the Sejm and Warsaw. [[Applause]] And now Mrs Anna Paluch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the speeches we have heard in this debate. Of course, not all of these speeches, which upset me, were substantive. Ladies and gentlemen! The landfills are burning because the Law and Justice Government, gradually clarifying and clarifying the rules, reduces the possibility of illegal practices in dealing with waste. Those who have been waste for years, so to speak, it is in this dishonest way that dishonest entrepreneurs try to get rid of them. I would like to mention one more point here. The Supreme Audit Chamber report, which estimated that the grey waste management zone represents between 30% and 50% It doesn't concern the years of our rule. It concerns the years of previous governments. Mr Suski has, of course, left the room. He was polite to say that the government of Law and Justice is doing a dollar far nonte here. In response, at the beginning of this term, we found 21 infringement proceedings in the environment department of the European Union. Six of them were at the judicial stage, eight at the reasoned opinion stage, six at the formal charge stage and one at the formal complaint stage for failure to make a notification. That was the beginning of our work. We complete all these issues. Not to mention 575 unprepared and unreleased legal acts that were burdened by the Minister of the Environment. Speaking of which, dolce far niente. I'll refer to the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, who attended the committee meeting? Let me remind you that we worked hard on the bill of 14 and 15 May. The conclusion was that all the amendments that go beyond the typos were submitted by the Legislative Office and reflected in the amendments we tabled as the Law and Justice Club together with the Ministry. That's most of the amendments. They include a supplement to the e-mail address of the calculation of the information that the trader is required to provide or the exchange of the word of instance on the installation. These are mostly amendments of this type. Indeed, they are more specific. Nevertheless, I would like to thank all of you for your participation in the discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u141	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Road Transport Act (prints Nos 3456 and 3509). Mr Jerzy Polakzek will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present to the High Sejm a report on the government draft law amending the Road Traffic Law and the Road Transport Act, print Nos 3456 and 3509. On behalf of the committee, I would like to provide some basic information on the key issues covered by this project, which is implementing the European Directive, in order to signal these issues once again. The draft law amending the Road Traffic Law and the Road Transport Act aims to implement the relevant Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU) of 2014 on the technical roadside inspection of the airworthiness of commercial vehicles moving within the Union and repealing the earlier Directive, of 2000. In order to fully implement Directive 2014/47/EU, it is necessary to amend the Road Traffic Law Act and the Road Transport Act. This was presented in very detail by the representatives of the infrastructure department at the meeting of the Sejm committee. The subject of this regulation is the roadside technical inspection of vehicles designed and constructed for the carriage of more than 9 persons including the driver. These are categories of M2 and M3 vehicles intended for the carriage of goods with a maximum total weight exceeding 3,5 t, trailers with a total weight exceeding 3,5 t and wheeled tractors used on public roads for the purpose of carrying out commercial carriage of goods. In short, the draft law provides for the following most important changes. Firstly, the possibility of carrying out detailed technical roadside inspections of vehicles falling within the scope of that Directive at mobile road inspection stations and at designated points of inspection. Secondly, the introduction of an obligation imposed on the Road Transport Inspection in agreement with the Police Chief Commandant for the planning and organisation of preliminary checks on the technical status of vehicles which are subject to the regulation of that Directive, in such a way that the total number of these checks covers at least 5% each year the total number of such vehicles registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We are implementing an article in this regard. 5 Directive on the technical roadside inspection of the airworthiness of vehicles in use and movement within the Union. Thirdly, the introduction of an obligation for controllers and road inspectors to carry out detailed technical checks on appropriate training and qualifications. Fourthly, the extension of the application of the risk assessment system as regards the number and weight of deficiencies detected in the categories of vehicles covered by that Directive. Fifthly, allow for the exchange of information between the Member States of the European Union concerning the finding of serious or dangerous defects or defects in the vehicle leading to the restriction or prohibition of the use of a particular vehicle. Sixthly, the implementation of this Directive will allow the Road Transport Inspections to cooperate with the inspection authorities of other Member States in coordinated roadside inspections of the technical airworthiness of vehicles. I would also like to signal that, in addition, in the draft law authorising the regulation, a point concerning specific conditions for the exercise of road traffic control of vehicles of the State Protection Service, Police, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Intelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, National Tax Administration used by the Customs and Skarb Service was added to the bill. 10 amendments were tabled during the drafting of the bill. These amendments were taken into account after a rather detailed discussion. Most of the amendments were editorial and detailed in terms of government submission. I would like to thank on behalf of the committee for the good cooperation of the legal services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Legal Office of the Sejm, which has served, I think, in a good way to the work of the committee. Today's second reading is taking place and I hope that the Government's submission will be accepted by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u143	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Wozniak will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u144	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on amending the Road Traffic Law and the Road Transport Act, which, as the previous speaker said, aims to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the technical roadside inspection of the airworthiness of commercial vehicles moving within the European Union. The subject of the regulation of the Directive is road technical inspection: vehicles carrying out road transport, goods and persons, inter alia. they are vehicles designed and equipped for the carriage of more than nine persons, including the driver, vehicles designed and adapted for the carriage of cargo with a maximum total mass exceeding 3,5 t, as well as trailers with a maximum total mass exceeding 3,5 t and wheeled tractors principally used on public roads and for commercial additional services, commercial transport of goods. The proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Law introduced an obligation for the driver to have a protocol from the last roadside technical inspection if it was carried out in the case of the vehicle concerned. The obligation for the driver to have a vehicle registered abroad is also introduced and a document confirming that the technical examination has been carried out on the territory of the Republic of Poland. This obligation does not apply to drivers of a new vehicle from the date of its first registration abroad until the date of the first periodic technical test, as new vehicles do not undergo technical tests before the first registration. The project also adds an obligation for the Chief Inspector of Road Transport together with the Chief Police Officer to plan and organise preliminary technical roadside inspections of vehicles listed in the Act in such a way that the total number of inspections per year covers at least 5% the total number of such vehicles registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The project also sets out a system of technical roadside inspections including preliminary roadside checks, technical roadside checks and a place where these technical checks would be carried out by mobile roadside inspection stations. These points will be located in places defined jointly by the various services I have already mentioned. The use of a mobile road inspection station will shorten the time of the inspection and reduce the costs associated with the control of road transport operators, as detailed checks will be carried out on-the-spot during the inspection. You won't have to move any more. This bill will increase road safety and help to keep vehicles safe and environmentally acceptable during their use. Road technical checks are a key element for achieving a sustainable high level of airworthiness of commercial vehicles. Attention is often paid, there are often complaints and this comes out during checks that, however, with vehicles in terms of technical condition, it is not exactly as it should be. These checks will also contribute to reducing emissions from vehicles and to preventing unfair competition in road transport related to the different levels of control applied by individual European Union countries. In view of the validity of this law and the factors I have said that will change and improve, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u145	Thank you. And I invite Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Road Traffic Law Act and the Road Transport Act, Seym Printing Nos 3456 and 3509. But before I go to the point, please allow the High House to congratulate Mr Jerzy Polachk on taking up office as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure. I wish you fruitful work, fruitful management of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft law implements a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council into our law, a very important directive, as the guidelines contained therein provide tools to coordinate the technical control of vehicles throughout the European Community's road network, of course after implementation by the Member States. The implementation of the directive into our law has several great meanings. In particular, it is important because it gives the opportunity to improve safety on the Polish road network because of the possibility - through these checks - of eliminating vehicles that do not hold technical standards and technical requirements which must meet vehicles that can move on Polish roads. Of course, this applies to the whole European network, because the regulations contained in this project provide an opportunity to exchange information between countries, so that they are regulations of great importance. The second reason is, of course, the possibility of reducing emissions, harmful environmental impacts. We know our problems in many cities due to smog, due to exhaust emissions. This is also a very important regulation. There is also an important reason, namely the possibility of maintaining or eliminating unfair competition between traders. After all, these passenger and freight transports are carried out by traders who make use of this option and do not necessarily bear the full costs of maintaining a high technical standard for these vehicles. For this reason, these regulations are also important. You could say... There is no doubt that my club will support this bill, we will vote in favour. You could say we're all happy about it if it weren't for the delay. After all, the Directive is from 2014. We know how useful it is, so we should really take a job and try to implement it as soon as possible. And what does the infrastructure department run by Minister Adamczyk do? Do you remember that he recently gave us a great bill and we struggled here, in the High House, with the transfer of issues relating to vehicle control stations from the competence of the ancients to the competence of the Transport Technical Supervision? And do you remember who interrupted that chuckle dance? It was a Member who does not operate a business, does not drive a vehicle, because there is no driver's license, i.e. President Jarosław Kaczyński himself, who irritated by these bad regulations simply led to the interruption of work on this project. And it is me personally, because I have worked in the Chamber for many years, not surprising, because this is the standard in the infrastructure department under the direction of Minister Adamczyk. As he took this position, instead of building roads, you remember, he optimized costs. More than two years ago he said, and rightly said that we need to regulate the corridors of life on high-speed roads, on highways, and to this day... So, Minister Weber, since you've recently taken up office, I have a question for you: When will this happen? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tell Minister Adamczyk we're waiting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u147	Thank you. I, too, congratulate Mr Jerzy Poleczk on his election as chairman of the committee. And now I invite you to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 by Robert Mordak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u148	Thank you, Marshal. Of course, I also join in congratulating Minister Polak. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Law on Road Transport, prints No 3456 and 3509, is the implementation of Directive 2014/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council in the Polish legal order. 47/EU of 3 April 2014 on a technical roadside inspection concerning the determination of the mobility of commercial vehicles on the roads of the European Union. In view of the above, given that this implementation can contribute to improving safety on our country's roads as well as on the European Union's wide-ranging roads, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u149	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u150	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Referring to the speeches made by my previous speakers and the report on the work of the committee presented by the President of the Committee on Infrastructure by Mr Polak, I would like to say that on behalf of the club, we warmly congratulate the Member on taking up this role and we are convinced that everything will go as it should. And back to the subject and the issues contained in the bill, I would like to say that our club will vote in favour of it. We believe that it is time for us to regulate these issues in our legislation, so that all these issues, which are aimed at improving the safety of our road traffic, protecting the environment, reducing emissions and pollution to the environment, are regulated so that laws can serve people. We believe that the provisions contained in this legislation are moving in this direction. It is very good that there will be a codification of legislation that we will be able to talk about including our services in these activities, that we will be able, as it is written, to talk about introducing controls in our country. The draft shall indicate clearly and clearly where the checks are to be carried out, the conditions under which they are to be carried out. There are talk of requirements for controlling, of the timing of their preparation, of training, of joint action with the services of the European Union countries. In our opinion, the project meets the expectations. We will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u152	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Polak on his position as President. Mr President, I also hope that these three months will be as busy as you said they would be. For my part alone, I have a request that we take a moment to talk about the driver education system, because these are important topics that should, I think, return to the public debate. And it seems to me that we will probably not adopt any legislation, but this discussion, the launch of such a broad debate involving a social factor, will certainly improve the safety status of our roads, as well as this law, which introduces European legislation into our legal order, and is related, among other things. with improved safety on our roads. I would like to say that I have the undoubted pleasure and the honour of presenting the position of the Members' Club of Modernity on the governmental draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Road Transport Act following the presentation of the report of the committee. High Izbo! This draft law is nothing more than the implementation in the Polish legal order of that Directive 2014/47/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the technical roadside inspection of the airworthiness of commercial vehicles moving within the Union. The subject of this regulation is the roadside technical inspection of vehicles carrying out carriages of goods and persons by road. High Izbo! Of course, this is an extremely important regulation from the point of view of the functioning of road transport. We all hope that vehicles moving on Polish roads, not only Polish roads, but also the European community, will meet the highest technical requirements. Of course, the issue of technical research this is one area of activity, while the issue of this technical inspection in the course of the use of vehicles on the road is also an extremely important element of the whole system of ensuring the appropriate technical quality of the vehicle. These road inspections are carried out on average over 300,000. per year. As a result of these checks, approximately 13 thousand stop. registration documents. This shows that, however, there are still vehicles on our roads that are dangerous to safety. And of course, this control is important. Here, for my part, I would like to appeal to the Ministry, however, to take action ahead of the introduction of such vehicles that threaten safety on Polish roads, because today these proverbial scraps imported from other countries are registered without any problem. They're a threat later. because of the technical conditions, they pose a risk to the environment. It is high time the Ministry woke up from this lethargy and proposed solutions that would protect Poles from the tide of just such cars that should be scrapped long ago. In relation to specific provisions, I would like to raise the question of the driver's obligation to have the most recent roadside technical inspection protocol if it was carried out. This is a provision which is in some way a result of the directive and, of course, it is necessary to introduce it. On the other hand, the directive also states that, as part of this obligation, it is possible to build a certain electronic evidence base that replaces paper. And it seems that this is something that was missing, but the introduction of this new obligation should also involve the introduction of such a technical possibility for control officers to access the results of this check, and it should not be another obligation on drivers, transport companies, because, ladies and gentlemen, these obligations over the last 3 years, the state on transport companies, you have imposed on drivers so much that this is another thing that makes it difficult to run a business. Of course security issues are important, but administrative issues that are not directly related to the level of security, it is high time [[♪ The bell ♪]] transfer to an electronic layer. Here I call on the Ministry to consider this and how to present this to the High House. Of course, the directive, the rules deserve support. On behalf of the club, I declare my support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u153	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Do any of the Members want to be on the list? I can't see. We therefore begin with Mr Michael Szczerby, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u154	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking of the Law on Road Traffic, I would like to mention the issue which was of interest to the Committee on Petitions. It's about giving priority to pedestrians. In this regard, the opinion of the ministries, as well as the Ministry of Infrastructure, but also the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and the Chief Police Command were not very constructive. This legislative initiative, the petition initiative, concluded with such a wording that you will examine this issue and carry out the necessary discussions. I'd like to ask you about this case. What is the result of your discussions on this petition? And I would also like to point out that in many countries, in the Nordic countries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in most Western European countries, the priority of pedestrians is simply a standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u155	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jarosław Goncier, the Law and Justice to ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question: How much after the previous government of the PO and PSL did we inherit or did the Road Transport Inspection have mobile vehicle control stations, and how the Government of Law and Justice is currently modernising the hardware and technical base, how much are we going to buy mobile control stations, how will this affect safety and environmental protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u157	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u158	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns the draft regulation on road traffic control. In the framework of this Regulation, you proposed a certain assessment of the infringements, the quality of the infringements, their seriousness. After this preliminary reading, I wanted to ask: What was the Ministry's direction, given whether it was assessing the importance of specific infringements? And I'm asking you this because it's like... issues relating to the identification of vehicles which are of secondary importance from a technical point of view are assessed, I would say, on the same scale, in the same way as other technical issues which have a direct impact on safety, e.g. structural damage or corrosion issues - they are the same [[♪ The bell ♪]] assessed as illegibility of the registration plate. So what were you following, suggesting such tables or proposing such tables in the regulation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u159	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask the last question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Inspired by Mr Goncier's question, I wanted to ask a similar question. Minister, how many of these mobile stations have been purchased in almost four years of the rule of law and justice, the infrastructure department? Purchased. No: how much are you going to buy, only: how much has been purchased. That's the most important thing. Because by translating this into a road, infrastructure program, it's like this: we were going to build this much, and today another company is off the next contract, I think there's already seven or eight... [[Voice from the room: 3 million apartments.]] Not to mention the apartments. And a question about the bill. Minister, the social side of the committee has reported a very important problem, namely the regulation of the vehicle test after installing the towing hook. Minister, tell me from this speaker: Why did you make a negative statement? This is such an obvious and necessary solution. Very [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u161	Thank you very much. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Rafał Weber, will answer this question and the previous questions will be answered.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will begin by thanking you for your work at yesterday's meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. After this debate today, it is clear that the ambiguities that appeared yesterday have been clarified. The result is positive positions of all clubs that are related to this bill and that none of the clubs have tabled amendments. This is a kind of event, and I would like to thank you very much for that, because it is clear that this bill is prepared in a very good way and does not require such amendments, in your opinion, by parliamentarians. I also thank you for the relatively substantive discussion. At the time when she was focused on this bill, she was actually referring to these proposals of ours. At the time, let's say, when the side issues were discussed, in my opinion this discussion was less serious. I'll talk to you about that for a second, too. But I would like to thank you in general for your participation in this discussion. Question one: Why is it so late? Well, sir, I said it yesterday, I will repeat it today. Part of the provisions of this Directive are already in force in Polish legislation. They are now being implemented in the provisions of the three regulations. These are: first, the Regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure of 25 January 2018 on the mode of transport of cargo, second, the Regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure of 18 April 2018 amending the Regulation on the technical conditions of vehicles and the scope of their necessary equipment, thirdly, the Regulation of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of 11 May 2018 amending the Regulation on road traffic control. So that some of the provisions of this directive are in force, but we are implementing the rest today, and we are implementing the whole. I would also like to clarify here that one of the objectives of this directive is already being pursued, i.e. preliminary roadside inspections of the technical condition of vehicles, so that they cover at least 5% each year. the total number of such checks of vehicles registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland - this is already carried out, even more checks are carried out than those of 5%. So that this record is filled out. Although these provisions are not in Polish legislation, the main inspector of road transport is already implementing these regulations on the basis of such inspections of vehicles. With regard to the questions that concern mobile vehicle control stations - we want to have 16 more than those that were purchased or purchased during previous governments within 4 years of our governments. We hope that everything in this matter will be realized. We don't really have much time because we have five months, but I think we can make it. And on these less substantive issues, which were not covered by the bill, I would like to tell you that it was not so, returning to the history of the law on which the work was suspended, because it is still in the Seym, and nothing has changed here, it can still go back to the agenda. On the other hand, I would like to tell you that there has been no third reading, not President Jarosław Kaczyński's decision, but according to the law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Seym of the Convention of Seniors. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a huge difference. I think you know that very well. Of course you're playing with those words, but this difference is huge. That is why I want to correct these thoughts and those words so that this false thesis does not get to the general message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u163	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms (prints Nos 3262 and 3446). Mr Dolata will present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms, print Nos 3262 and 3446. On 6 March 2019 the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Commission, following its first reading and consideration of this proposal at its meetings on 14 May and 11 June this year. asks the Sejm to adopt the attached bill. The government has prepared this project, responding to societal needs, the demands of many organisations and environments which have demanded the labelling of non-GMO food so that the consumer can consciously choose the products he buys in the store. The GMO-free labelling is also complementary to the agricultural minister's programme to increase the share of national plant protein without GMOs in feed production. So far, despite several successive governments, the feed industry with the dominant participation of foreign companies is based on imported soya meal, which is almost 100% is genetically modified. Allowing producers to produce and market food of animal origin labelled as GMO-free will increase the demand for national feed produced on the basis of national sources of GMO-free protein. The draft law provides for voluntary labelling of products which will be described as GMO-free. These may be products of animal origin, from animals or from feed-fed animals without GMOs or plant origin. A compound food containing at least 50% may also be labelled feedingstuffs may also be labelled as ingredients eligible for the labelling and, which is very important. The draft law also sets out rules for labelling food and feed, introducing uniform graphical signs - it will be found in the Minister of Agriculture's regulation - so that food consumers have no doubt that the product is non-GMO or contains GMOs. Possible technically unavoidable thresholds for GMO admixtures in food and feed have also been established. For food, this threshold is very low, at 0.1%. It's also low for feed, because it's 0.9% here. Similar solutions have been adopted in other countries of the European Union where such labelling has been introduced. This is Germany, France, Slovenia, Italy, Austria. So that is a fairly common solution. The Act also sets out a delegation to the Minister for Agriculture to set minimum transitional periods, withdrawal periods for feed without GMOs. In addition, the draft law provides for obligations for operators placing on the market products labelled as GMO-free. The most important responsibility, of course, will be to perform laboratory tests. The manufacturer will also be required to keep documents proving that the tests have been carried out. The draft law also states that products from other countries that use GMO-free labelling will be recognised in Poland under a mutual trust clause. In addition, the draft specifies that the bodies controlling the implementation of the law will be the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection and the Veterinary Inspection. Penalties have also been laid down for possible failure to comply with the provisions of the Act. I would like to inform the High House that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has adopted three amendments tabled by the chairman of the committee, Mr Sachaika. These three amendments sharpen the penalties. The government project originally provided for lower penalties, now more severe penalties. As these amendments were accepted, notabene adopted another amendment to Article. 4 - the committee requested the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to submit by 13 June an opinion on the compatibility of the Commission's report on prints Nos 3262 and 3446 and in particular on the obligation to notify again. The draft states that the Act will enter into force on 1 January 2020. Its reception is expected by most Poles. This will also have a very positive impact on the development of Polish agriculture. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like to ask the High Sejm to approve the government bill contained in prints 3262 and 3446. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u165	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Duda, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the governmental draft law on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms, print No. 3262. The government's proposal for labelling products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms is based on requests from social organisations, consumer organisations and some producers. In the light of the public debate on GMOs, which regularly appears with every legislative initiative in this area, calls are also intensified to give consumers the right to choose when buying food products because of information on whether a product has a genetic modification and whether GMOs have been used in the production process. This is driven by continuing uncertainty and concern about the long-term effects of genetic modification on human health. Non-governmental organisations regularly carry out public opinion polls and campaigns to produce results indicating that 65% Poles are in favour of banning GMO cultivation. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in October 2017 received more than 1 000. calls for the introduction of a single GMO-free mark which would indicate how and from what ingredients food is available to consumers. In view of the fact that consumers are demanding labelling of GMO-free products, as well as the strengthening of government actions to increase the domestic production of plant protein for feed purposes, and the brand of Polish food, a draft law has been drawn up which will regulate the labelling of products as GMO-free. Products to be covered by such a labelling scheme shall be single and multi-component products of plant origin which have equivalent genetically modified products authorised on the market of the European Union. This includes maize, rape, soya, sugar beet, which are not genetically modified, but are conventional equivalents of genetically modified products. The next group are products of animal origin: meat, milk, eggs, cheese. They come from animals or from feed-fed animals without GMOs. Examples are products that have been produced in animal production using e.g. non-GM plant protein of native production. These conditions have been the basis for creating GMO-free labelling, which has been using several European Union countries for nearly 10 years. The initiative of the Polish government is in this respect consistent with the actions of these countries. Food of animal origin may be labelled as GMO-free if it comes from animals or from animals fed during the withdrawal period prior to their procurement and the feeding process of GMOs will be documented. In the case of food of animal origin, labelling free of GMOs is permitted, e.g. meat, carcases, eggs, milk as well as processed food containing ingredients other than products of animal origin, e.g. soy protein is often used in the production of meat. In the case of processed foods, which are also made up of other ingredients, these ingredients must comply with the requirements of the Act so that the food can be labelled as GMO-free. The following labelling principles are proposed in the draft law: a graphic symbol and a possible word expression. The basic marking on packages or labels of all products shall be a graphic symbol, the model of which shall be laid down in a regulation issued by the Minister responsible for Agriculture and the Minister responsible for Agricultural Markets. It may be accompanied by the term "no GMO' in the case of plant products or by the term "produced without the use of GMOs' in products of animal origin. The compliance checks will be carried out by the Agricultural and Food Articles Trade Quality Inspection, Veterinary Inspection and Commercial Inspection, in accordance with their respective tasks. The draft law regulates sanctions concerning deficiencies in the placing on the market of products labelled as GMO-free. After an in-depth examination of the draft law presented by the government at committee meetings and after the club discussion, having regard to the absolute right of the consumer to make an informed choice while standing at the same time, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that conscious choice is one of human freedom, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft law submitted by the government attached to print report 3446 and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u167	Thank you. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms, printing No. 3262, and the report of the committee, print No. 3446. Ladies and gentlemen! Under the great pressure of social organisations, which demanded that such a law be created and clearly defined for the consumer, which products are GMO-free and which are not, the Ministry leaned on it - thank you very much, Minister - and submitted to the Sejm such proposals for solutions to the legislation which are theoretically intended to help consumers in the choice of goods. Unfortunately, for the last almost four years, PiS has been able to break any law and this law is also a legal failure. To this project, the social side, Minister, submitted 33 comments, which clearly indicate... But that was also the result of the discussion in the committee. The Minister, whom you recommended for the presentation of the project, could not answer any question, used the justification, read the justification directly, answering our questions. In fact, just one amendment... There were three amendments in total, but this was one made by the opposition. Here is a thank you to the Kukiz15 club, which submitted it, with the full support of the rest of the opposition and rulers. The penalties have been increased, but these penalties will not be effective until the end either, as there are no provisions regarding the prohibition on the use of this stamp if bad practices are found by companies, economic operators, farmers and the withdrawal of this product with GMO-free inscription. Among the 33 comments submitted by the social side was, among others. the fact that we, as consumers, demand that there be one term: GMO-free, GMO-free. The country introduces two indications: without GMOs and produced without GMOs. Why? Why should this law be so vague, so inconsistent in its records? That's another line. The country introduces a term that is produced without the use of GMOs. It's not in the vocabulary. There's gonna be a kazus again... Do you remember a magazine or a magazine? You don't want this bill to actually enter into force and be properly executed. One more thing I'm gonna put in your hands is the Marshal's amendment on behalf of the club, it's a matter of who's gonna possibly be certifying, checking. You don't want to, you're deaf to requests, requests, add to that units that are certification bodies so that they can determine whether any products are GMO-free. You're throwing everything away for today not exactly trusted state units. There was a very wise statement by one of the committee's guests who said that if there was a situation, that someone would break this ban, break this law, it would all fall on the shoulders of the Polish state. You're not listening. I'll tell you more: the situation when other products... The chairman who reported the committee's plan said that in other countries such a law was already in place. Very well, only there accredited certification bodies perform these tasks. You're not listening. One more thing, Mr. Minister. I would very much like to [[♪ The bell ♪]] This law came into force because it is needed by consumers, and I fear that it will lie as an unconsumed law. That's why I'm really sorry. At the same time, I promise on behalf of the Civic Platform Club that after the change of power we will correct all errors in this law and the act will actually work for consumers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for a law on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms. It is good that Poland has finally joined the group of countries where labelling of GMO-free products is regulated at the statutory level. There is no doubt that consumers deserve a clear message stating that the product they buy is a product produced without the use of genetically modified organisms. First of all, I would like to remind you that in 2016 the Poselski Kukiz Club submitted an appropriate draft legislative amendment to this case. It should also be recalled that NGOs have been fighting for more than 10 years to present such a project in the Sejm. High Izbo! If we had already adopted the proposal proposed by the social side and submitted by Kukiz15 in 2016, today we would have an already expanded segment of GMO-free products in Poland, greater consumer awareness, fewer perversely called civilizational diseases, and the agricultural sector would be in better shape. We'd have had a few years of experience with the law. We could now consider possible modifications to this regulation, i.e. to improve its alignment with the current state of knowledge on genetically modified organisms. This discussion is very dynamic and brings with it a number of issues where appropriate response and preparation are needed. For example, it is enough to mention the recent ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the classification of organisms for which the method of gene editing has been applied, so-called. Hidden GMOs as genetically modified organisms. Such challenges of the present must be answered. We're at a stage we should have had a few years ago. The 2016 amendments were intended to include modifications and additions to the Food Safety and Nutrition Act. The objective was identical to that of the contested law, i.e. the establishment of an appropriate food labelling framework for which the entire production process has been carried out without the use of modified organisms. The project presented by the Poselski Kukiz Club15 was more important in regulating the GMO-free food labelling zone. It should be noted that the food market generates huge profits. We all have to eat. At some time, the media informs about another food counterfeiting scandal, and therefore sanctions related to the quality and labelling of food products must be proportionate to the scale of the profits made by their producers and processors. In my view, it is also about the greater danger of a procedated law, i.e. the loss of consumer confidence in the GMO-free mark, which is now guaranteed by the Polish government. During the first reading of the draft in the Committee on Agriculture, the Social Party made a number of comments which significantly changed the shape of the law, but due to the need to notify the proposed amendments to the European Commission, which would entail a waiting period of months for implementation of this regulation, these amendments were not supported by committee members. At this point, I would like to assure consumers that this is the first, but a milestone in the subject of food labelling without GMOs. The only changes that were accepted by the members of the Committee on Agriculture concerned an increase in the grossly low system of fines provided for in the event of a breach of the law. Thank you very much to the members of the committee for supporting the amendments I tabled. In conclusion, I would like to say that the members of the Kukiz Club15 will support the project after years of fighting for consumers' right to choose, the right to reliable information, the right to nutrition themselves and their family with GMO-free products. This regulation will have a positive economic impact on farmers and processors, for which a large, absorbent and cost-effective market will be opened. In view of the above, I would like to say that it is necessary to adopt a procedated bill as soon as possible, for which I warmly thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u171	Thank you. I invite Mr Mirosław Maliszewski to present his position on behalf of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the occasion of the process of this law, the discussion on genetically modified foods, genetically modified soybeans, which has taken place several times in this House, also in previous years, could be renewed when it was the subject of an attack on those who had previously exercised power. Later it turned out that those who took over this power, unable to implement their own program, are preparing further moratoriums on the use of genetically modified soybeans and do not decide on such radical steps as they proposed several years ago in the rules on the marketing of seeds or cultivation of genetically modified plants in Poland. Once again, it is worth considering whether the world, Europe, Poland in the long term will defend themselves against genetically modified food. Today it seems that there are such trends in Europe. The rules in many countries and the EU rules themselves are beginning to move towards reducing the supply of genetically modified soybeans, other plants, other foods that would reach consumers, those 500 million European Union consumers. Unfortunately, there are no studies that say that genetically modified foods are harmful, but there are also no studies that say that they are harmless. In fact, we have been eating such food in Poland for at least a dozen years, because, as we must say, every animal product produced in Poland, meat, milk, eggs or other products, is produced on the basis of genetically modified soybeans. Today Poles are stuffed with this food. The public, I agree with all the predecessors, does not accept genetically modified food. He wants to have food that doesn't involve GMOs. It's a good trend. Other trends are also good, e.g. trends to reach for food produced with less use of plant protection products or fertilisers. There are even special quality programs that talk about, for example. there were no residues of such preparations in plant products. The most classic, farthest-reaching trend is organic production, which in Poland and other European countries is developing in terms of production, and it is increasingly seen on store shelves. An increasing number of consumers are reaching for such food. It's the safest. Observing the trends that occur in Poland, the wealth of society for several dozens of years, for 12 years, we see an increase in interest in healthy food. It's an imprecise term, but it involves, among other things. for food free from genetically modified organisms. Of course, a number of questions arise when discussing this law. Is the leaking mechanism effective? Will the inspections designated to control, certify, manage this task? The Minister will, of course, answer both: yes. On the other hand, this is not entirely certain. A certain solution would be to entrust specific tasks to accredited certification bodies, as is the case with organic production. They deal with this in an excellent way and relieve the burden on the state administration. They have better structures than the state administration and in this respect We're seeing a lot of progress. Production of organic food in Poland, despite the decline in the number of hectares that are covered, is growing. Very good. We can see clearly that organic production is starting to produce, not just to receive subsidies. For this reason, it is worth supporting this law to give the consumer the right to choose. The consumer is not yet fully aware of whether this food is harmful to him or not. He feels that it can potentially be harmful, and he prefers to reach for products he can be sure of. The consumer, going to the store and choosing a specific product, should receive specific information: whether it contains GMOs or not. That's the demand. This is not only due to public opinion polls. Each of us, going to the store, would like to buy that kind of food. I am concerned that this system will go off the hook, as some say, whether it will actually be a law, which, as many have passed before, over the last three to four years, will be on the shelf and will only be a literary fiction. There's been a few laws like that. Several such laws lie and no one uses them, even though there were noisy announcements that they would function. This applies, for example, to the Polish product law, which, in my opinion, did not have any market effect. As I said at the time, I say the same thing now in the case of GMO labelling - without a clear promotional action aimed at consumers, an action to inform that we are introducing such a certification system, we will not cause growth [[♪ The bell ♪]] their consciousness. However, our club will support this project to ensure that such regulation appears at all in legal trade. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u173	Thank you. On behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Ewa Lieder. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u174	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the government's draft labeling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms, prints 3262 and 3446. The governmental draft law on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from those organisms sets out the principles of voluntary labelling of food and feed as GMO-free and the obligations of operators placing such labelled products on the market. Three government inspections will be responsible for the control system: Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection, Veterinary Inspection and Commercial Inspection. The proposed regulations are intended to limit self-conclusion as to the inclusion of GMO information on products. As GMO-free products can be labelled under regulated conditions. In the case of feedingstuffs, the presence of genetically modified ingredients may not exceed 0.9% , in the case of food - 0,1% Whereas in the case of food derived from feed-free animals without GMOs, this applies to feedingstuffs which contain less than 0.9% GMOs. It is worth noting that EU legislation already in force requires information on the GMO content to be included in products that have more than 0.9% genetically modified ingredients. According to the project presented, only products of plant origin for which EU law permits the GMO content but does not contain it may be labelled as GMO-free. If the product does not have an acceptable equivalent of genetically modified, it cannot be labelled as GMO-free. In the case of mixed compound products, ingredients of animal origin and ingredients of plant origin which may be labelled in accordance with the Act as GMO-free must be at least 50% the product. This law, although it can introduce high standards of Polish food, can also be risky for it. This concerns competition with foreign EU products labelled as GMO-free, but on other legal principles. Agricultural producers and food producers will be able to add marketing value to their products, paying for laboratory tests for genetic modification, labelling, certification, purchase of non-genetically modified feed. This will certainly translate into the prices of these products. It also raises the question of how many manufacturers will be able to go through this process and obtain the right to label their products as GMO-free. Following the implementation of this project on the Polish market, products will be labelled voluntarily as GMO-free, non-labelled products and products subject to mandatory labelling of the presence of GMOs, which results directly from EU legislation. This may cause chaos, given that voluntary labelling only applies to products of plant origin in which maize, rapeseed, soya and sugar beet are made up, but not so many consumers know it. The GMO-free password will certainly have a strong impact. But will this project result in greater consumer awareness? We don't know. The proposed legislation, although it is appropriate to do so, can create a system that will favour only a small group of agricultural producers and food producers, which is why it is important that such regulations go hand in hand with a broad information campaign. Here one of my previous speakers mentioned the designation of the Polish product. It didn't actually work. I hope that these regulations will lead to greater public awareness. He is very expected by the Polish society. He should just act. It is a good direction that consumers expect and are increasingly aware of what they buy, what they eat. This is the right direction. The Modern Posel Club, despite these project shortcomings, will vote in favour of the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u175	Thank you. We proceed to ask questions at this point. Would any of your fellow Members like to sign in? I can't see. I therefore close the list and invite you to ask the first question by Mr Grzegorz Lork, Law and Justice. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u176	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Membership! High Izbo! Minister, it's a very good bill, long awaited, and we're glad to have it. I wanted to ask: Are we planning any actions in the future or in the information campaign concerning products of foreign origin? There is this problem of labelling these products and the use of commercial networks, we have foreign trade networks that can manipulate these products, labelling these products, so as to mislead them. or encourage consumers to shop on these networks. My question is this: Are we planning some regulation on these foreign products in the future, or maybe information in the consumer campaign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u177	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u178	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is concrete. I'm not gonna talk about the fact that we really wanted this bill because everyone wanted it, fantastic that it is. It is mainly for consumers that the consumer knows and chooses a product that is marked free from GMOs or with GMOs. On the other hand, my concern is the absolute lack of funding for this law, as I mentioned in the committee. The Minister stated that this funding would be part of the multiannual programmes: Creating scientific foundations for biological progress in plant protection, and I have information ahead of me, and the information that Minister Ardanowski has signed, to the departments: breeding and plant protection, food safety, food economy, where in point 8: Creating scientific foundations for biological progress, the amount of 13 million is cut to 7 million. The Minister cut the money from the fund for which the control of products labelled free from GMOs is to be financed in the future. I will say at the outset that the veterinarians are protesting at the moment, Minister, and you did not have the courage to send your staff to the subcommittee that spoke of it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You told them not to go, and this bill would be for 13,000. food business operators, 1 million farms and 200,000. farms producing feed. All these people will be controlled by an inspection that is currently underfunded, and you say you're going to fund them from programs that you're cutting by 50%. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u179	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is a saying: all roads lead to Rome - and we can also regulate the mark free from GMOs. There is the Kukiz project15, there are several social projects and there is a project prepared by the Government of Law and Justice, but in all these projects it may be a weakness to supervise that there are no GMOs. The government project has chosen the safest, safest solution, i.e. the supervision of state institutions, directly state institutions, only here is it very important that these institutions simply can carry out these checks, i.e. there must be money and there must be people. Therefore, my question is: How will we ensure that these institutions are properly financed so as not to lose this brand? During the presentation of my position, I talked about falsifying food. Unfortunately, this is now a plague. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, it's a good thing that we've been able to increase the penalties, but the scaring function itself, without a control function, isn't gonna work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u181	Thank you. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll get back to the certification bodies case. Why do you think these individuals can't certify GMO-free food as well? I'm asking you to answer why you insist you don't. That's one thing. And two. Minister, are you aware that this bill will make certain producers who want to be marked with GMOs specially add certain ingredients, products to be able to write themselves free from GMOs? Because today we are talking about the fact that there are products that are not subject to the fact that they are GMO-free. Why do you do that that a man who actually manufactures food or produces food that is actually GMO-free today will not be able to use such a label? Why? Minister, you're causing this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that Polish producers will stand in a losing position when it comes to foreign competition. Why don't you talk and think about Polish producers and Polish farmers? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[A calming tea.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u183	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two doubts, and I would like to ask you here to explain these issues. How will compliance with Polish law standards be verified for products produced abroad and introduced into our market by operators operating in many markets and does the introduction of the proposed regulation prohibit labelling of products placed on the market in Poland by marks referring to the presence of GMOs in other countries of the European Union? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u185	Thank you. Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Is this legislation proof that GMOs are well in agriculture in the world at all? Because it reminds me of... Because this bill says there's a possibility of labelling GMOs-free food. It reminds me of organic food. Similarly, when there were no plant protection products in the world, there was only organic food. As plant protection products began to be used, they became so common that later only a niche market occupied organic crops. Today it is similar with this niche without GMOs. Is it not necessary to look more holistically at agriculture because beekeepers today alarm that three times the spraying during the flowering of rape causes bees to get worse and honey contains these chemicals that were used for spraying? As far as the economic impact is concerned, bees give 40% height. I don't think these sprays are gonna have that effect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Like bees. Shouldn't it be today, not only because of political correctness, but also because of common sense, because no one said that GMOs are harmful to health and food at all, look at it in a more holistic way and approach to modification, to GMOs in a rational way, so as to prevent e.g. those sprays that are used in the case of rape? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u187	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u188	Three questions for the Minister. One subject has already been raised. You spoke more about the fact that the food imported from countries that use the GMO mark will be able to be imported into Poland and will be marketed. Question: "What will the integrity of this system be?" Because these systems are different in Poland and in other countries of the European Union, and completely different in countries outside the European Union. Observing what is happening today on the organic food market, we can see that there are a number of forgeries, not in Poland, but forgeries in organic food production in other non-European countries, and it goes to Europe, it is sold as organic food. In this case, will we not make it difficult for Polish food producers to create difficult conditions, difficult to get through, and even from imports we will allow the penetration of the Polish market? [[That's how it's gonna be.]] Secondly, what will be the scale of the food products that the dispatchers will want to use, and how much will the capacity of individual inspections allow the quantity of food that the Poles want to go to the market? How many of these products are there gonna be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally. What about the brand, the designation of the Polish Product, how many of these products so marked, and what, are they placed on the Polish consumer market? 'Cause I've actually never seen such products before. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u189	We will ask the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski for an answer to this and earlier questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all your comments. I am pleased that, despite various kinds of comments, more or less important, most clubs have stated that the bill will support this law. I'm a little worried that I didn't hear that declaration from the Civic Platform. [[I said we're in favour.]] That's good, I'm glad that you also support that this is not just on the principle of notaben, because it's not a denial, which notabene as a political tactic is rather a loss. This law corresponds primarily to the expectations of consumers - it was raised - not mythical social organisations, only consumers who want to have a choice in the store, choice, I stress, and do not want to prejudice for them what to buy. Many consumers do not attach any importance to the origin of food or its composition, suggesting first of all price, ease of access, but there is a group of consumers who care more about their health, perhaps the wealthier ones who want to buy food, which they think is healthier food, although I agree with Mr Maliszewski that this definition of healthy food is a vague, vague concept. Every food should be healthy. However, there are certain distinctions that are important to people. In the Polish society, as in most countries of the Union, although not in the world, there is a growing reluctance to food containing genetic modifications. On the one hand, there is a reluctance to such crops - and, it seems, effectively in Poland, we have eliminated such other legal acts - but society in a large part of it also expects that the food that is on the shelf will be marked in a precise manner, so that it can be determined whether it contains GMOs, it concerns plant production, or the production of products derived from animals or animals, because the subtle difference is that feed or other components containing GMOs have not been used. And this bill has the opportunity to provide that. At the same time, the law clearly states that, as cannot be decided for the consumer, neither can it be decided for the producer. This is a voluntary indication, which, of course, if the manufacturer makes such a declaration, will be controlled. It's obvious. Why should the state institutions do this? Because more and more in the world, the belief that this country is supposed to guarantee food safety is growing. We will continue to discuss changes in veterinary matters during this term of office. Besides, this was a question from Mrs Niedziela, perhaps beyond the scope of this law. There is such a expectation that this country, through its institutions, will guarantee food safety, not private institutions, private veterinarians. That's why we've identified three inspections that will take care of this. These are some additional measures, but these institutions have sources of funding. So the concerns about whether or not they will have the means to conduct research are unlawful. I do not see much of the link here either with reducing resources for agricultural institutions operating in other areas and suggesting that this will have an impact on the effectiveness of the controls of these institutions. I think it's an exaggeration of fear. Measures to control in proportion to the presence of these products on the market will be sufficient. It is also very important that we want not only to introduce food of plant origin, but also to encourage farmers to use more and more unmodified national protein sources. Yes, you are right that the writing itself, the marking itself, the graphic symbol that will be defined in the Ministry of Agriculture - it will be clear, clear, it will not be an unnoticeable emblem for people with weaker eyesight, it will be clear and clear - it does not yet prejudge whether consumers want to use this food. A promotional action is also needed. And while those who never intend to produce GMO-free foods are nervous and feel that we discriminate against them, distinguishing them from this type of food, I take the risk. Customers will decide what they want to buy. On the other hand, promotional action should involve not only the institutions under the Ministry of Agriculture or the wider government. Believe me, this action will be run by advisory centers and will be financed by means of widely understood promotions. But perhaps it should also involve all Members in their offices. I would very much wish that all those who point and say: take care of promotion, in their offices such promotion of GMO-free food would also lead. It will be very practical to educate this part of society, which for various reasons goes to the parliamentary offices. It is also my personal obligation as a result of the presentation of the Village Plan, in which I assured that there would be such solutions. This plan is part of the strategy for responsible development of Prime Minister Morawiecki and we are implementing this, ladies and gentlemen. It was stated here that it was not socially consulted. Well, we need to follow up on the legislative process. The bill already has a long beard, while the public consultation took place twice, everyone could express themselves. A number of comments have been taken into account, and this allegation of non-consultation is, in my view, not true. We have adopted amendments on penalties, more criminalisation than ever before. This also shows that I am open to various suggestions for amending the law, although I must say that I will not focus on the punishments of the only way to be honest on the market. It is about the inevitability of punishment, a penalty proportionate to the benefits obtained, more impact, education and appeal, also appealing to ethics than merely the application of penalties, especially since Poles have been a nation experienced for centuries with various punishments, since the time of the conquerors, and have been able to do so to avoid punishment. The way to determine whether the product is GMO-free and whether it is produced without the use of GMOs is based on whether it is plant production or animal production. It is difficult to say about meat that it is without GMOs, but it can only be said that no substances or feeds that contain GMOs have been used in the meat production process. I have already talked about certification bodies, but I will repeat that the trend is that this country is to assume responsibility, not some authorized bodies, which I have no doubts about, but ultimately before society, the external institutions of the European Union are responsible to the State, but not to the certification bodies. That is why I believe that questioning whether to undermine trust in your own country, which sounded here in the speech on behalf of the Platform Club, that it is not known whether you will be able to... [[In your day, unfortunately, it is.]] Well, how can you question, not trust your own state and yet tell you that only after a change of authority will the state gain confidence? This is a rhetoric that is visible on every occasion, and this law has nothing to do with it. Will the mechanism work? We'll keep an eye on it. We will observe how many manufacturers will want to promote their products in a special way, gain access to this niche, which will result from public awareness, from social expectations. I hope that more and more people will want to benefit from this. The various programmes that we are introducing for voluntary labelling, with varying intensity, are entering. The programme for marking the Polish product is already beginning to be visible. Perhaps it was possible to say that Poles might throw themselves at shops in bulk, looking for stamps with the inscription "Polish Product," because so their consumer awareness, consumer patriotism, economic patriotism increased. It doesn't work that fast. [[Because there's no promotional action.]] But I get information from some producers who say straight away: Thanks to this program, our products, from our company, are manufactured in such a way that they can be marked by this voluntary mark of the Polish product, they finally begin to have recognition on the market. This is important to me. We had doubts, we were worried about whether another programme - I am saying this to widen the answer - when it comes to agricultural retail, direct sales and MOL, it will work or not, whether they will be willing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is developing to a very good degree. Very good. Those who sell raw food and whose sales we call direct sales are now around 11,000. Those who process food that is placed on the market in the framework of agricultural retail trade - these last 5 months of functioning of the law - are at the moment about 4 000. Maybe not much, but it's starting to pick up some momentum. So I also think that those who will want to use this particular distinction in terms of the absence of GMOs in their products will be more and more. Briefly, as regards the answers to the questions which come here and Mr Lorek and other Members. The issue of labelling foreign products. After all, it must be emphasized once again that this is voluntary marking of Polish products. Voluntary labelling of Polish products in order for Polish consumers to look for these products in a positive way. On the other hand, we recognise, because this is an absolute requirement of the acquis communautaire, marking from other countries. We can't fail to recognize them. This is the principle of mutual recognition of markings, which applies in the European Union. I don't really know what the veterinary protest is about here. Yeah, I'm worried about that protest, and I'm looking for resources. On the other hand, the relationship is quite loose as to the determination of GMOs. Care for money for certification bodies. We are preparing budget assumptions for 2020 and the appropriate resources for these institutions will be included in the budget. Of course, the golden times of financing everything also in the field of research have ended without looking at the effects. Expenditure needs to be rationalised, and market revenue also needs to be sought - above all, the world of science - to be convinced of its research by the interest of economic operators, where to obtain part of the funding. Then you won't regret the resources. On the other hand, the financial rules that have been in place over the years, which are actually 100% financing without having to verify the effects of these tests later, they end. The certification bodies, why not. I already told you, the state will respond. The question of the man is well founded, because this is one of the elements of the discussion that is going on. The question is whether GMOs are bad in principle or if they were used, we would reduce or eliminate, for example. The use of chemical agents, sprays, that is, in this way thinking, maybe it would turn out that genetic modifications are a salvation to the world. [[And for the bees.]] Yes, except that so far studies and genetic improvements, if this word can be used, do not refer to the production of a stronger, more resilient plant, yielding more yield with salinity, in the absence of water, only generally serve to make it dependent on the use of one chemical agent. Ninety-six percent of the modification concerns the tolerance of the plant to glyphosate. Maybe someday genetic testing methods will actually be part of progress. For now, they are part of making farmers dependent on powerful multinationals. I don't agree to that. But this direction of thinking is very good for me, which is why I am convinced that I very much support the application of neonicotonide mortars, which in microscopic quantities protect rape seed so that the farmer can give up four post-growth, dolist sprays. So that's the action I've taken, but which your club is very critical of is, it seems [[♪ The bell ♪]] favorable. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your comments. The bill will come into force, and I'm not predicting any delays. We're gonna assess together whether it's effective, or if there's some special distinctions that need to be introduced. On the other hand, the principle is that a wide range of products must be delivered to the consumer and he - as in every free country, and Poland is even ahead of them - will decide what he wants to buy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u191	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Zbigniew Dolata, will speak. But before he does, I'd like to say hello to the children and the youngsters from Jadnik and Ushwi. [[Applause]] Enjoy your stay in the Seym and enjoy your trip to Warsaw. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I only wanted to raise and develop the thought, the answer of Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, about the questions that Mr Menzyłko asked, actually such a statement that no one said that GMOs were not harmful. [[Everybody said that, everybody said that.]] Of course, if we... [[There is no evidence, sir, there is no evidence that it is harmful.]] So that is what I would like to say about it, sir. The mechanism for the harmfulness of GMOs is not that if we consume genetically modified plants, we, as consumers, will also be subjected to genetic mutations, i.e. that this cross-border gene will pass from plants to humans or animals that, for example, would consume plants, because that is not the essence of this modification. The Minister said that the essence of genetic modification in most cases lies in the fact that plants are implanted with a gene for resistance to the active ingredient Roundup, i.e. glyphosate, and thus utility plants, e.g. Roundup soy will survive, while weeds will be destroyed. And the mechanism of harmfulness is that it is glyphosate, or this active substance, that, according to the World Health Organisation, is potentially carcinogenic. This is such a cautious term that this institution has formulated, but there are also American studies, very advanced on very large trials of fifty-six thousand, which indicate that exposure to glyphosate increases the incidence of e.g. for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma by more than 40%. Studies also cover other types of cancer. So it is this mechanism that causes us to do everything to, for example. the protein source used in feed, i.e. genetically modified soybean imported, may have been replaced by national protein sources which are not treated with Roundup spraying, the active substance glyphosate, and contain less of these carcinogens and therefore are simply healthier. So we have a health-promoting effect, and an effect supporting the development of Polish agriculture, because as we know, we spend about PLN 4 billion per year on imports of soy buckwheat. So if at least half of these imports were replaced by national sources of protein, about 2 billion could be left in the pockets of Polish farmers, maybe a little less, maybe more, depending on how much this can be replaced. I think it will work, because Minister Ardanowski is very involved in making this protein program start and in Polish feed there will be a protein that will grow in Polish farmers' fields. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u193	Thank you. Corrigendum, Mr Artur Dunin. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u194	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I will say this again loudly and clearly: the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of this bill, Minister, despite the comments I have spoken of. I regret very much that the Minister has not referred to my question, a very important question, why anyone who produces food free from GMOs, according to the Act, will not be able to use this designation. I'm very sorry you missed that very important question. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u195	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Before we proceed to the next point, I will present the announcements. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, the Energy Efficiency Act and the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels, print No 3502. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds (prints No 3455 and 3508). Mr Krzysztof Szulowski will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds, prints No 3455 and 3508. The first reading of the draft law took place at a committee meeting yesterday. On the basis of the Act of 22 May 2009, i.e. 10 years ago, nine funds have been created for the promotion of agri-food products: the promotion of milk, pork meat, beef, horse meat, sheep meat, grain and cereal products, fruit and vegetables, poultry meat and the promotion of fish. The main objective of the promotion funds is to promote marketing, increased consumption and promotion of agri-food products. The establishment of specific tasks carried out by promotion funds in a given year shall be the responsibility of representatives of industry organisations representing agricultural producers and processors operating in a given sector who form a separate management committee for each fund. The funding of promotion funds may be used to finance or co-finance promotion and information programmes, co-financing promotion and information actions eligible for EU support, financial support for measures to inform about the quality, characteristics and advantages of products covered by the Act, actions to promote the consumption of these products, thematic exhibitions and fairs, scientific research and development to improve the quality of products covered by the Act, market research on the consumption of products covered by the Act, producer training and processors, tasks relating to the participation of representatives of national industry organisations involved in the work of committees of various international organisations. The proposed amendment to the Act on Promotion Funds, which responds to the demands of oil plant representatives, envisages the creation of a new Fund for the Promotion of Oleist Plants, which would promote marketing, increased consumption and promotion of oil crops and their products, derived from the processing of rape, turnip rape, soya, flax and hemp, but also very important, bee products. Support from this bee product fund, which is a particular expression of understanding by the producers of rape for beekeepers, is worth emphasising and, of course, justified on the basis of bilateral relations, including the impact of bees' activity on the quality of the rape crop, which represents a 95% share in the national oil crop area. By pollinating the rape, bees increase the yield by 10%. The pollination of flowers by bees is beneficial not only to increase the yield, but also to the quality of the seeds. The Oleist Plant Promotion Fund will make payments of 0,2% net value of oil crops subject to tax on goods and services. It is estimated that the annual revenue on this fund will amount to nearly PLN 8 million. 15% appropriations are intended to be used to promote bee products. The promotion fund will only be managed by representatives of industry organisations representing agricultural producers and processors operating in the oil plant sector who will set up a separate management committee. These will include four representatives of oil plant producers, one representative of bee products producers, three representatives of processors and one representative of agricultural chambers. The members of the Management Board shall be notified and elected by representatives of the oil plant industry. The Managing Commission will decide on the financial allocation of the Oleist Plant Promotion Fund for specific tasks included in the annual financial plans. Promotion funds have played a positive role in the promotion of Polish food, contributing, of course, together with many other factors, among others. to increase the value of Polish food exports up to EUR 30 billion. The solutions proposed in the bill will further increase the food security of Poland, increase the incomes of farmers, increase the competitiveness of Polish agriculture and reduce the deficit of feed protein. The process of the draft law within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development took place in an atmosphere of favor and acceptance, without a vote of objection. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I request the support of the High House for the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u197	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Ryszard Bartosik will be the first on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u198	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the Name of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice I have the honour to present a position on the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds, print No 3455. This amendment proposes to establish and join the group of funds that already exist, another fund. The proposed amendment to the Act on Promotion Funds envisages the creation of a new Fund for the Promotion of Oleist Plants, which would promote marketing, increased consumption and promotion of oil crops and their products resulting from the processing of rape, turnip rape, soya, flax and hemp, hereinafter referred to as the processing of oil seeds, as well as support for the activities referred to in Article. 2 (2) Point 1 (10) of the draft law concerning plants, their treated products or bee products. The proposed replacement of the Promotion Funds Act is a response to the demands of oil plant representatives who request the creation of a new fund. It is a parliamentary project. An important element of this project is the promotion of bee products, which creates a thread of agreement between beekeepers and rape producers. It is important to stress how important it is to produce edible oil, the production of rape, which is very high. In Poland, only rape is produced for industrial purposes in these quantities. I think that this fund will promote the promotion of oil products of Polish origin, especially since it is a proposal from the industry, the environment of rape producers. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare that our club will vote in favour of this necessary amendment to the law, this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u199	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u200	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the PO-KO Parliamentary Club on the draft law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds, prints No 3455 and 3508. I would like to say that this is an extremely desirable change which they themselves have requested, i.e. representatives of the oil plant industry. This is also the first case of cooperation between industries, and the transfer of 15% The bee industry fund is an extremely important element of the fund being created. The project under investigation concerns the amendment of the Promotion Fund Act, which provides for the creation of a Fund for the Promotion of Oleist Plants and their products resulting from the processing of rape, turnip rape, soya, flax and hemp as well as bee products. The idea of creating another, separate, tenth fund is, in our opinion, very good, and the creation of a mechanism which is designed to ensure effective promotion of the industry is absolutely right. I would like to remind you that when we passed the Act on Promotional Funds on 24 April 2009 under the PO-PSL government, we explicitly advocated the creation of effective mechanisms that will contribute to the growth of sales of Polish products, to gaining sustainable markets that will improve the quality of manufactured products and industrial integration. Today, too, we believe that the fund is needed. Designed influences at a height of 0,2% net values on oil crops are about PLN 8 million per year, of which a limit of the funds of the Oleist Plant Promotion Fund, which may not exceed 85%, shall be fixed to support tasks relating to oil crops, processed oil seeds and feedingstuffs. maximum financial resources of the Fund in a given financial year and for support for the implementation of the tasks relating to bee products, that limit shall not exceed 15% . Special funds are needed and necessary, but they must serve specific objectives: promoting products, giving tangible support to oil and bee-growing sectors, implementing the need for communication, building target groups. Much of the funding should be devoted to education and consumer awareness-building. In order to achieve all these objectives, the basic condition must be met: to ensure proper rules for the use of the Fund, to manage and allocate funds with precise criteria. In accordance with the Fund's Finance Act, associations of agricultural producers or processors may apply. Support for oil and bee-plant industries by providing financial resources under the new Oleist Plant Promotion Fund is a continuation of a well-thought-out strategy launched in 2009, a strategy to build stable demand, accelerate growth trends and increase the share of domestic products in the structure. The proposed solution deserves a positive assessment as it allows for the implementation of measures to stimulate the oil plant market in the widely understood food part. We believe that the proposed rules will increase consumer awareness of the benefits of products, improve market research and improve the competitiveness of Polish agri-food products both on the domestic market and on the Community and global markets. The PO-KO Parliamentary Club is in favour of further proceedings over the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u201	Thank you very much, Member. And I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, who will present the position of this club on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the position of the Kukiz Club15 does not in any way call into question the validity and need of appropriate and effective promotion of oil plants, to which the submitted parliamentary project relates. There is no doubt that Polish oil plant producers should be supported, that the trend of increasing the area and the yield of rape, turnip rape, soya, flax and hemp crops should be strengthened, as well as consumers should be encouraged to consume more Polish vegetable oils. Polish protein should also be promoted among poultry producers and pork producers and the development of Polish bee-keeping should be supported at the end. That's undisputed truth. However, it is not true that these objectives can be effectively achieved by updating the existing law on agri-food promotion funds. This law contains legal gaps allowing farmers to spend money e.g. to promote meat or milk among farmers, i.e. to promote activists instead of products. Let us not be deluded that the new Fund for the Promotion of Oleist Plants without a profound change of the rules for the allocation of funds and the personal, material responsibility for the wrongly spent money will avoid the pathology that we often hear about. The improvement of the system of marketing and promotion of Polish agricultural products must be based on radical reconstruction of the whole system. Members of the Kukiz club have already tried to do so by submitting a draft act on the fund for promotion of Polish agri-food products. It was to be, first of all, a law on one promotion fund, not a lot of funds, and secondly, it was to be about Polish agri-food products. Today, farmers compete for the same stomach, and often a farmer, when he has diversified production, competes with himself. This is ridiculous. The introduction of a single fund would significantly reduce red tape, increase the transparency of the system as a whole, improve marketing and promotion activities and radically reduce the costs that currently consume the system, and these costs are not small. As the results of the audit carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2016 showed - we indicated them in the justification of our bill - in order to cover the costs of the management committees and the operation of the entire weird and unnecessarily extensive system, there was a need for funding from the state budget. As I mentioned, Kukiz's parliamentary project15 emphasized the promotion of Polish agri-food products. The current law - and the revised proposal does not change this now - allows for support for products where the content of ingredients originating from outside Poland can be as high as 25%. This is an unacceptable solution because it leads to a situation where funds from Polish farmers' contributions support foreign farmers. We also drew attention to the need to focus the new fund's activities on foreign markets. It is abroad that there is the greatest potential for the sale of Polish products, which should be used. The Polish brand is still poorly recognizable outside our country's borders. The Fund would allocate 60% funds just for foreign stocks. And finally, I will remind you that the big one may be more and cheaper. One large fund could promote the Polish brand and proper eating habits more effectively than 10 fragmented ones. In conclusion, the proposed solutions in the draft amendment to the agri-food promotion fund law that is now under discussion should be assessed as needed, particularly in view of raising the awareness of poultry producers... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u203	Excuse me, sir. Wait a minute. Mr President, if you want to have social conversations, you can do it in clours, and you are disturbing your colleague, although from another club, but... Thank you. You're welcome. [[But he's a friend.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u204	I concluded that promoting Polish protein and raising awareness of poultry producers and pork in the use of Polish protein without GMOs is a very important area of support within this fund for the promotion of oil plants. It is also very important to support beekeeping, which has for years been regarded as a necessary evil. The law should be adopted as soon as possible, as money for the promotion of Polish oil, feed protein and beekeeping are necessary. At the same time, however, a discussion on the bill on the promotion fund should be started on the issue of systemic changes in order to make the best use of Polish farmers' money. The Kukiz Club15 will support this bill. And in the last sentence, I wanted to inform the Minister that I actually promote the retail bill at every meeting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u205	Thank you. And Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u206	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Promotion is undoubtedly an element of the market, which was not necessarily well used in Poland in the past. Today, it is not enough to compete on the market, compete solidly, win in this competition, have a good product, you still need to know how to sell this product. That's what the old motto says. And in order to be able to sell it, you have to use it based on the knowledge of the market, i.e. marketing, promotional activities. And it's not simple, it's not ordinary, it's about offering a product and informing only about its advantages, but it's about innovative actions, including. to raise demand for this product, to build consumer awareness, so that it reaches for this product when it goes to the store. I remember perfectly when we tried to find export niches for Polish products even before we entered the European Union - my industry, the fruit and vegetables industry, and fruit and vegetables producers also tried to find export niches for Polish products. We crashed into the wall in the absence of money. They appeared at the moment of our accession to benefit from the support of the European Union, but it was necessary to have an own contribution, which was also not there. At the same time, there was no money available for such an effective campaign. I am talking not about activities of a large extent, but even about an ordinary campaign involving participation in international trade fairs and exhibitions. And then many industries, including the gardening industry, came up with the idea that it was worthwhile, and the first was the dairy industry, to create promotion funds, i.e. to introduce small parataxes, which will influence some central institution with the means that they can make their own contribution, from which they will be able to carry out promotional activities in the country to sustain consumption, and on external markets, to acquire new sales places, new consumers. It was invented then - I know that the Minister had a part in this - promotion fund for many other products. In my opinion, it is actually good that promotion funds are divided, because if this money for selling, marketing products went into a single bag and managed by some specific management committee, it would be competitive for this money, uneven for some industries, those industries which, as they say, are less important and which require specific promotional measures. This would be dominated by these largest producers, e.g. cereals, milk, meat, one or another, and other industries would be hindered by access to these measures. These promotion funds allowed us to raise the money that gave us the opportunity to carry out these business missions, fairs, exhibitions and promotional activities outside. It must be said that this law entered into force in 2009 at the time when Marek Sawicki was Minister. It is also necessary to boast that it has brought positive results and has always been positive, as it is shown by the fact that Poland, if it is not a leader in the EU's promotional support mechanism, is certainly at the forefront in terms of the use of funds. Unlike what was still a few years ago, today Polish products and Polish exhibitors can be found at the biggest fair events around the world. Trade unions, which are represented by promotion funds, work very effectively. I say: very effective, because we see that this opening up of markets continues. Poland wins outboards in the world rather than loses them, sells them, increases exports more than reduces them. So it must be said with satisfaction that this law is a successful solution, meets the expectations of farmers, and distributors, and traders, and processors. It seems that the amendment that has emerged is going in the right direction. Because since the environment of oil producers - and we understand that the associated beekeeper environment - has come up with an initiative to create a separate fund to raise funds and the amount of PLN 8 million per year allows for large-scale activities, this is a solution that deserves support. As a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, among others. for this reason, we will support this project. One might wonder whether other industries, perhaps niche ones with less market relevance, should also not have separate funds. Because it seems that this is my opinion and our position that the idea of separating funds into different industries is a good idea, and this idea is good, too, all the more so because it came from the needs and expectations of the industry. Our club will continue to support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u207	Thank you very much. This speech ends with a part dedicated to speaking on behalf of the clubs. Let's get to the questions. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz club15, is the first to ask a question. Time - 1 minute. I'm closing the list because no one else asked questions at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The production of oil crops is now dominated by rapeseed. When we drive through Poland, we see beautiful yellow fields. In my view, in order to break this, we may even say so, rape monoculture, we need to free up, exclude hemp from the action of the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction. This plant shouldn't be there at all, because it just contains trace amounts of THC oil. My question is precisely about the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture to free cannabis from the anti-drug law. We have Polish scientists, an institute in Puławy, who specializes in researching this plant and who also supports actions that exclude the plant from the operation of this law. A plant that has hundreds, [[♪ The bell ♪]] if not thousands of applications, and for some reason - I do not want to preach some conspiracy theory of history here - its production is being inhibited in Poland. Because in many countries, she's already freed. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u209	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the following question: Has the remaining funds been analysed since 2009 and have they fulfilled their role in such a way as to give hope that the oil plant market will have an equivalent solution effectively? Are agri-food promotion funds active in the internal market, or are they also promoting Polish products abroad? If yes, to what extent cooperate with the Polish Investment and Trade Agency? Perhaps it would be worthwhile to consider an amendment as regards the commitment of the Fund to such cooperation. The experience of Iceland, Canada, Senegal and the Czech Republic seems to indicate the need for such solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u211	Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In connection with the draft law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds, which includes: I would like to ask whether, due to the specific nature of the tasks carried out, the Fund will also be able to provide resources of external origin, including the Union, for these tasks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u213	Thank you. Please, Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u214	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has already sounded many times today: it is a very good bill. Of course, those who requested its amendment, its creation, knew that this would strongly support their marketing activities. Here's my question. In the light of what has happened in redistributing other funds in other funds that have experienced difficulties and problems, is there a mechanism that will prevent the wrong distribution of funds for this fund? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll repeat the question I asked at the committee meeting. I will still disagree with the Minister that market research is being carried out by the institutions already established, because the largest producers of agri-food products, but not only, producers very important in the world and in Poland, carry out their own research to know exactly where they are supposed to map their needs. Therefore, my surprise is the lack of market research in the previous financial statements of the nine funds. Well, for example. the meat fund, both beef and pig, concerns a point which is also described in this fund, which states that market surveys should be carried out on the consumption of beef or meat products to determine how successful promotional measures are and to take note of these effects. It is therefore surprising that in this entire financial annex there is always zero under point 4 on market research. These are huge amounts at your disposal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Six, eight million. Question: "Does the Minister assume any possibility of forcing these funds to investigate the market on purpose and locally where they operate?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u217	Thank you. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u218	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill is just a very good proposal, because the promotion of good, Polish, healthy food is never enough. I am glad to see that a new, tenth fund, the Oleist Plant Promotion Fund, is being created. In view of this, as I said, that the promotion of good Polish food is never enough and that it is still possible to improve this law, which is already in place, I would like to ask the Minister whether further work is planned in the Ministry to change the scope of the promotion of Polish agri-food products, in particular, is the question whether you are not thinking of including in this fund the promotion of eggs which are produced in Poland. Here's another topic. I live on sieradzka land, where we specialize in potato production. Wouldn't it be worth it, we know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That potato is also a vegetable, separate a separate fund to promote a Polish potato? In recent years, the Minister has done a lot on this subject, for example for two weeks a Polish flag of Polish potatoes has been issued. This is also a promotion, yes, this flag marking is a promotion of Polish changers, but wouldn't it be worth establishing a separate promotion fund for Polish potato? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u219	Thank you. Mr Jan Duda, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! There have already been so many peans about the bill being drafted, there is no doubt that it will be voted out, but I have one question. This is a question for the rapporteur. Will the time allowed for the creation, the mobilisation of this fund be enough time for the industry to function? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u221	Mrs Agata Borowiec. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u222	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is expected by the oil industry. I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Mr President, what promotion measures can be financed from this fund? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u223	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice, will ask the last question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u224	Minister! Recently, at meetings with farmers, which I devote mainly to promoting, encouraging farmers to participate in the farm restructuring programme, because I have to say that here knowledge, information is too cheap, farmers ask me whether it is true that the Ministry of Agriculture is working to create a better chance or prospects for cannabis cultivation in Poland. This is not a question that is closely related to this subject, but there was talk of hemp here, so let me ask you a question. Whether it is true and in what direction would this support or promotion of this type of crop go, because there are regions in Poland, for example Lubelszczyzna, where there is a huge experience in this production. Second short question. Is due to the beekeepers' demands for the launch of a special sugar production line by the National Sugar Company for the needs of Polish beekeepers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which would be cheaper and better quality, the Ministry pilots these activities and what is happening in this area What's going on? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u225	I ask the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! Honourable Members! Thank you very much for your appreciation for this project. I take these comments very seriously. The idea is not to create an unpractical existence, but to take such measures, such solutions that will effectively support the promotion of a certain part of our food production. This fund will be collected from farmers, and all promotion funds are funds that are owned by farmers, and I very much want to emphasise that. Processors are those who collect this penny and withdraw it to accounts once held at the Agricultural Market Agency and at the moment at the National Agricultural Support Centre, while these are farmers' funds. During an interesting discussion, which was on the committee, the voices of this discussion repeated... In general, the discussion concerned not only this particular fund, but the whole promotion fund law, whether it works well. I would like to say to Mr Pyzik that in February we prepared and submitted a very detailed report to the Committee on Agriculture on the effects of the promotion funds since 2009, it can be read. Since there have been and are still comments from some agricultural organisations primarily on the effectiveness of spending money from funds, on the sense and purpose of financing individual promotion programmes, I have decided that for the past two months, I do not remember exactly, full information on the expenditure of promotion funds is suspended on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and it can be thoroughly verified which social organisation, what resources it had and what programme it was implementing. It seems to me that they most often criticize the promotion funds of those organizations which have made the protest their mark, but at the same time are unable to carry out effective promotional action themselves. I encourage all those who criticize the funds to apply for some promotional measures for consumers across the country, regions, areas where they have their structures, and show that they can use these funds better than those they criticize. There is a doubt whether to create a single fund, that is, Mr Sachajka's request from the Kukiz movement15. It seems to me that this would not be intentional because promotion funds come from farmers. Unfortunately, there is a dominant belief among farmers: my money is to go to a promotion that concerns my products. Whoever makes cow's milk isn't interested in selling horse meat. This is the first example on the shore. However, there is sector-specific thinking here and it would not necessarily be possible to manage this fund efficiently. The principle which was adopted in the 2009 Act - the law adopted or was initiated by Minister Sawicki, and its draft We have left him, he comes from the days of our first governments, the rule of law and justice, and I am grateful that he has undertaken work on this project - he assumes that the management of the fund is carried out collegially by those identified by the two environments directly affected by the fund. They are farmers - not farmers, from any organisation, but farmers representing producers - and the second group is processors who are interested in the promotional effect because they sell the final product. There are four to four, and one, the ninth person is a representative of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, i.e. farmers have an advantage of five to four in fund management committees and can, even if there is no consensus, obtain through voting the implementation of such actions as are needed. The clarity of the spending of funds, which stems from the transparency of the information provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, the knowledge which persons, by name, are sitting on funds, on management committees, seems to be sufficient to be sure that it is well spent or not. I have no reason to question the direction of thinking or the principle of spending. Yes, we are also checking the state control services to verify that this money is not wasted, that it is spent in an appropriate, rational way. On the other hand, as far as the objectives are concerned, these committees define them by selecting from the catalogue those proposals, those projects which are submitted by social organisations. I don't think there's any better socialization. I very much respect the principle that the Ministry of Agriculture should try not to interfere, not to order, as Mrs Sunday suggested here, not to force the management committee to take any specific action. I believe that the social representatives, assuming that they were elected as representatives of interest groups, who are deeply involved in this, are best aware of what to spend on. I think that these funds are being spent in a reasonable way at the moment, but I'm sure there's still room for improvement. The big export effect of Poland did not come from anything either. It's also the work of people involved in promotion funds, it's the measures that also influence the recognition of Polish products in the world, it's the participation in all these exhibitions and trade fairs, etc. The promotion funds give us another very important advantage. These funds are envious of farmers in other countries. The funds provide an opportunity to allocate national funds to co-finance the acquisition of much more EU funding without breaking EU rules, in accordance with EU rules. If we did not have these funds, these private farmers' funds, we would not be able to co-finance the acquisition of funds from the European Union. Nor is it that farmers compete for the same customer. Well, there's a rule all over the world that you compete for the same customer, because if he eats more meat, then less bread, if he eats more pork meat, it's less poultry, less fish, it excludes each other in some way, it's obvious, but we try to reach these consumers through promotion. Promotion financed by Polish promotion funds is also the fight against imports, it is the convincing to buy Polish food, it is also supporting exports. These are the actions to which the funds go. I'm very happy because there's been a new phenomenon that I think very highly of. Namely, organisations dealing with different products are starting to cooperate with each other in the field of promotion. At the moment it is implemented by seven organizations dealing with soft fruit projects: Polish superfruit. They don't fight each other, they just agree that they promote fruit together, from strawberries to raspberries, blueberries, kamcha berries, arons... I can't remember what else is going on. They support each other, not fight each other. That also shows some new thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, this fund is intended to support the use of oil - oil from various oil plants. After all, Poland is not only a large producer of rape oil. The quality of cold-pressed oils is excellent, whether from linseed, or from flax, or from other plants. The promotion of oil, not just rape oil, is one of the main goals. Using this oil for both consumption purposes... Here we can still do a lot to make people believe that it is not waste, peanut oils or palm trees, somewhere from the countries of East Asia, only from Polish raw materials. These are very healthy oils to enrich our diet, with appropriate content and proportions of omega-3, omega-6 acids. I'm not a nutritionist, so I don't really know anything about it. This is one of the elements. The second element, for me, was extremely important, which was also underlined by the rapporteur, namely the promotion of rape buckwheat and buckwheat from other oil plants as an important component replacing modified American soya, post-extract buckwheat. It is the building of Polish agriculture, it is the provision of income to Polish farmers. This is an excellent role of these plants when it comes to crop rotation, improving soil fertility. It's also carbon absorption, it's carbon sequestration activities, that's pro-natural activities. These are very important elements so that we can also use the additional resources that will be collected for promotion. But what is also important is what one of the Members mentioned: how to convince farmers to want to buy Polish feed, because so far the conviction of a very large proportion of poultry and pork producers was unfortunately such that soy is non-alternative and only an idiot will promote Polish protein sources. In this way, for several decades, all possible students and students of agricultural schools have explained it so. How can these farmers be persuaded to demand from feed producers precisely such feeds, the protein components of which will be Polish plants grown on the farms of their fellow farmers and neighbouring farmers involved in plant production? That's what you need money for, too. For me, the historic event is this - and for this I am grateful to the representatives of the environment of rape and protein crops producers, the national association, I was one of the founders of this association in 2002, so I am glad that my child is so creatively, wisely approaching the benefits of cultivation of rape - that for the first time in history, when we estimate that 20% increase in rape crops and even more, comes from pollinators, farmers producing rapeseed and earning additional income agree, with a small suggestion from me, to allocate part of the money to beekeepers. Is it possible to discuss whether 15% , or 10% There were any attempts to amend or 20%, that's not important. This is amazing - farmers, rape producers make up. This contribution is not large, 0,2% That's 3 zlotys a ton. Tone costs from 1500 PLN to 1600 PLN, i.e. 0,2% This is ok. 3 zł per tonne. These are not measures that will make the farmer's economic account worse, and these funds collected at national level are about 8, 9, and give, Lord God, and more, because I want the rape to develop even more dynamically, the funds that will be allocated in part to the beekeepers, to the programmes that the beekeepers themselves will propose. This is also why there will be one representative of the beekeepers' world, the beekeepers' environments in the management committee. This is something really special that farmers are beginning to see agriculture as a system of connected vessels, not on a principle: each of them magnifies their tails and everyone sees their own. Ladies and gentlemen, a few answers to the questions, very quickly. Cannabis. I don't have an opinion on this, I'll be honest with you. I hear from the Minister of Health that the slight release of cannabis in Poland - of course Cannabis sativa, not Cannabis indica - can lead to the fact that we will not be able to handle drug-related issues. And I believe the Minister of Health. It's a little tiring, because recently I've been bombarded with hashtag #freecracker, now it will, I understand, #freecapped, #freecracker. Maybe someday Poland will mature for this, so far there is no agreement to promote cannabis without control. On the other hand, with regard to the programme that Mrs Masłowska asked about, yes, I want hemp from which we obtain raw materials for industry as well as excellent quality oils to be developed in Poland. The Institute of Natural Textiles and Herbal Plants in Poznań is involved in this. There are programs, this is a very important plant that perfectly cleanses the soil from industrial contamination. Member Pyzik, analysis of funds. I'm sending it back to the document. Yeah, we're trying to eliminate all the mistakes or pathologies that went through there and make it more transparent. Can funds receive EU funds? No, they can't, they're part of the co-financing of applying for EU funds, and they're not supported by EU funds. The problem of market research. Ladies and gentlemen, any fund management committee may choose from this menu, from this catalogue at its disposal, also market surveys on the consumption of the product concerned. Well, these studies are generally available, they are conducted by the CSO, examining the consumer basket in Poland, so why spend the second time on the same thing that has already been tested. I don't get it. On the other hand, if the committees wish to allocate funds for this, no one will interfere with it. Apparently, they believe that funds spent directly on national or foreign promotion are more important measures. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you want to expand the sources of funding? That is Mr Pole's question. Marshal, I'm trying to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u227	Well, there you go. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski: Yes, we can look for additional sources, extending them to other groups as well, but it probably wouldn't make sense to shred funds, create small funds, because the fund's operating costs would often be large enough that they wouldn't justify the mobilisation of this fund at all. The time for implementation is sufficient. I do not share the opinion or concerns of the oil producers' environment. We've added another month, they'll get ready for it, and those pennies from every invoice will be delivered, they'll know where. Sugar from the National Sugar Company. Beekeepers who will turn to the National Sugar Company, as it has already happened in Lublin, will be able to buy sugar, while I have not heard this voice from the beekeepers to make it some other sugar, sugar with some special parameters. If that's what the beekeepers want, then we can work on it. I am finishing and thank you very much for the good word and for supporting this bill. I hope tomorrow or Friday... [[Voice from the room: Tomorrow.]] ...we'll all vote for her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u228	Thank you for your vote. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The minister didn't understand, I suspect, because there wasn't much time. Two points. Firstly, the draft law, which has been prepared and which can be read, does not state that milk producers will manage the pig production fund. It is about one common fund for which everyone is represented. It is not what the Minister was saying, that every puppy is proud of, and sometimes one puppy praises two tails, that is, eating itself, because if someone is producing pork and cereal, then with his money these two productions compete with each other, and there is no need for it. It's about optimal use, not: every one of their own. And the second theme. I'm not talking about that - and, again, there's this bill, please get to know it - so that there's no control over the production of hemp, it's that it's not a senseless control and administrative difficulty, which we have right now. The control of the Home Office will always be there, because there's information about it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where it's grown. It's all about being able to grow cannabis, because there are huge restrictions right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u229	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! We can work on the concept of a common fund, and I don't see the contradiction. If the farmer has several types of production, he is interested in selling both this and both. Just because he produces meat and grain doesn't mean he doesn't want to sell it as a ham sandwich or a hamburger, where both are. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u231	Thank you very much. Please, the applicant's representative, Mr Robert Telus, wanted to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u232	Dear Marshal! Minister! Dear Izbo! Not that I wanted to speak, but there were questions addressed to me, which is why I want to answer these questions. There was one question by Mr Jan Duda - already partly answered by the Minister - whether it was enough time to introduce it. There are great concerns, presented to us by the organizations, that they will not be able to bring it in, and that is why. We changed the date of entry into force of the Act - from 1 August, not from 1 July. We gave a month more. However, we very much want the organisations to introduce it this year, because this year we could have a fund that will work, which will be able to promote it. It is important that it can operate this program already this year, and because, although there are concerns, we will do everything and help organizations to put in place this IT system as soon as possible, because this is primarily about the IT system, so that it can work. That's one question. The second question is the question of Agata Borowiec. She asked me what the resources could be used for. It is I who will read this from the justification: the financing or co-financing of promotion and information programmes, the co-financing of promotion and information actions which are eligible for support from the European Union, the provision of financial support for the implementation of measures aimed at informing about the quality, characteristics and advantages of products covered by the Act, the promotion of the consumption of these products, thematic exhibitions and fairs, scientific research and development aimed at improving the quality of products covered by the Act, market research. And this is also the answer to Mrs Niedziela's question, which, at the committee's meeting, raised the problem here so that this fund could be used by market research. You can, of course, use this fund to do market research, only, as the Minister said, why, since these market research is already being done. If any fund decides - we are talking about this fund at this point - that such research needs to be carried out, then of course you can, because the law allows it and there is no need to change anything here, because it can be done. It is also a question of market research on the consumption of products covered by the Act, training of producers and processors, tasks concerning the participation of representatives of national trade organisations participating in the work of committees in various international organisations. So that the range of what these funds can be used for is probably very wide. They can be used for any promotion of a given product, but it is decided by the fund, decided by the fund's management, decided by the committees that are in the fund. They will decide what these measures will be used in the direction that will be needed at this time to promote the whole oil industry, oil products. Here the Minister has already talked about this, but I will stress this because it is very important - I think it is such a special step towards cooperation between farmers - it is also about the bee industry, the honey industry. It is also very important that we promote the bee industry from this fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u233	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the European Union's Committee on European Affairs on the Government draft law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union (Prints Nos 3469 and 3470). I would like to ask Mrs Agatha Borowiec to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u234	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the European Union Commission, to present a report to the committee on the government draft law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, print No 3469. High Seym! Only editorial amendments were tabled at first reading on 11 June 2019. At the same meeting, the Commission considered the draft law together with the amendments tabled and asked the High Sejm to adopt the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u235	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u236	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law on Parliamentary Printing No 3469 on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. The Agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community provides in Article. 126 after that transitional period, during which the United Kingdom, in accordance with Union law and in accordance with national provisions implementing European Union law, is generally treated further as a Member State. The purpose of this Act is to confirm this effect during a transitional period in order to eliminate any doubts in this regard. The law therefore applies only to a transitional period, namely the period beginning on the date of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and ending on 31 December 2020. At this time, in understanding the spirit of these records, we want to emphasize the special care and care of the Government of the Republic of Poland about legal status, living conditions and working conditions on the principles of reciprocity of multi-million Polish diaspora in Great Britain and Northern Ireland and British citizens in Poland both in terms of the application of the provisions of the article. 607 and then the Code of Criminal Procedure for Polish citizens staying abroad, or in connection with this article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This general concern for the condition, functioning and position of our compatriots in the UK encourages the Parliamentary Club PiS to support the bill discussed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u237	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. At the same time, I would like to welcome the Radom Group, which is watching the Sejm today. Welcome to the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition on the draft law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. As you know, they are in such a situation that, by 31 October of this year, the United Kingdom is to withdraw from the EU either on the basis of an agreement that has been negotiated between the 27 EU members and the United Kingdom, or without agreement. If the United Kingdom ratifys this agreement, then it will take place in an agreed manner, in line with the agreement, which provides for a transitional period until the end of 2020. This law aims to regulate certain cases in such a way as to continue to treat Britain as a member of the EU until the end of the transitional period if the agreement is adopted. In particular, it is about British citizens staying permanently in Poland. They will be treated as citizens of other EU Member States. These British citizens in Poland have about 5700. There are also over 100 posted workers in Poland. It is also about Polish citizens who may be prosecuted by a European arrest warrant. As you know, Polish citizens do not seem to other countries unless appropriate agreements provide for this. And we have such an agreement within the EU, but when the United Kingdom comes out of the EU, then there will be some confusion as to whether or not, during the transition period, we will be able to issue our citizens chased by a European arrest warrant from the United Kingdom or not. For the sake of clarity, this law is about to regulate that by the end of 2020 the European arrest warrant will also apply to Polish citizens, because the United Kingdom will still be treated as a Member State in this period. There are a few exceptions to this treatment. They are provided for in the exit agreement and this law also applies to that agreement. Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition will support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u239	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15. There isn't. Mr Michał Kaminski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u240	Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats will of course vote in favour of this bill. Its acceptance is logically clear, legally obvious and the interest of Polish citizens, more broadly, in the interests of the Polish economy requires it, but we must not lose sight of the reason why we today in the Polish Sejm, geographically quite distant from the House of Commons and from London, have to vote on things which are connected with the result of such, rather than the other decision that the British have made in the referendum on their membership of the European Union. It can be said that I have observed the beginning of this process as the leader of the conservative faction in the European Parliament. And I can tell you that's how matches end up at a haystack. Because a very large number of British politicians did not want to leave the European Union, and she considered anti-European rhetoric a very comfortable trampoline to gain support from the British public. At first, these views seemed eccentric, and at first they were promoted within a completely natural framework of freedom of speech in democracy, but it turned out that people in a mature society like the British society, filled with fake news about the European Union, stuffed with anti-European propaganda, made a very bad decision to leave the European Union, with all the standards of liberal democracy. Many British politicians, including British conservatives, whom I had the pleasure of knowing personally, did not want to do so. They thought that anti-European rhetoric was really helping them gain the support of their constituents. The result turned out to be regrettable and it is impossible not to relate this situation to the situation in Poland, where a large number of politicians promote, turns a blind eye to radical statements and extremist views precisely because they want to gain the applause of parts of the public opinion in this way. But sometimes history says, "I'm checking." British politicians, history said, "I'm checking." Britain is outside the European Union. This is wrong, both from our Polish point of view and from the point of view of Europe. This is at last wrong from the point of view of the United Kingdom. Very often, and even I will put the thesis that nationalists have always, in history, been the most damaging to nationalists. In the end, the greatest price for chauvinism, nationalism, political stupidity was paid by the nation on behalf of which acts of this stupidity, this chauvinism and this nationalism were allowed. So today, in a political, prestigious, economic dimension, the price for the lack of reasonableness of its politicians is paid by the United Kingdom. After all, it is impossible not to ask ourselves what will happen, how we Poles will have to pay the bill for lack of reason, chauvinism, radicalism of people who are ruling Poland today, and who are very much connected with these British conservatives. After all, there were many in Warsaw and Moscow who were crossed for Brexit. Even in the case of those who formally reject any relationship with Vladimir Vladimir Putin, who say that they are formally anti-Russian, it is strange that almost everywhere, whether it concerns Trump's choice in the United States or Brexirowicz, or taking photographs with Mrs Le Pen, as the infamous foreign minister of the previous government of Law and Justice did, everywhere it suddenly turns out that this convergence of thinking with Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin's thinking is amazing. Therefore, High Izbo, supporting this bill, because there is no way to support it - we must deal with the consequences of the unwise decision of the British electorate, but we must respect this decision, also unwisely - we must do everything to ensure that Poland, the Polish people, the Polish society and our future generations do not have to pay an equally high price for the lack of reason of those who rule the Clearest Commons today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka. Your envoy isn't here. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. And the first question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u242	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am going back to one point that is a little bothering me, which I have already discussed at the committee meeting at first reading, and which I do not think is quite clear to me by you. Namely in the article. 2 of this draft law is referred to as separate provisions. Whenever separate provisions refer to a Member State of the European Union or of the European Atomic Energy Community during a transitional period, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland shall also be understood to mean that Member State of the European Union or of the European Atomic Energy Community during a transitional period. It's been a little editorially improved, but that's the point. On the other hand, in the explanatory memorandum, the impact assessment no longer refers to all separate provisions, where the term "Member State" may appear, but only British citizens in Poland and the European arrest warrant are mentioned. I imagine that in separate legislation it could be about economy, transport, I don't know, many other issues, including Member States. So I kind of don't understand why the justification is about such a narrow range, and the rule in the bill is very general, [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is talk of all separate provisions at all. Can you please explain this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u244	Dear Marshal! Minister! Just out of curiosity, was the bill being consulted in some way, discussed, whether through the embassy or through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or other diplomatic services, with the other side, with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland? Is that even necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u245	Thank you very much, sir. The questions are answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Maciej Lang. You're welcome. Two questions, so that very quickly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll answer the first question first. During the transitional period, the United Kingdom will continue to treat as a Member State of the European Union, although it will not, continue to treat as a Member State of the European Union and, with a few exceptions, retain the rights and obligations of the Member State, even though it formally loses that status. That's what this is, this is the element we discussed yesterday. So, apart from the issue of the European arrest warrant, there is no need for separate regulation, because the United Kingdom will be treated as if it were a Member State. As far as the second question is concerned, there is no need for consultation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u247	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the system of development institutions (print No 3479). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Mark Niebłużak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u248	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present here today a draft law on the system of development institutions, which aims to regulate the rules and strengthen cooperation between the main institutions of the state which carry out its tasks for economic and social development. I am thinking primarily of the Polish Development Fund, the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, the Export Credit Insurance Corporation, the Polish Investment and Trade Agency and the Industrial Development Agency. These are the institutions of development. This project pursues a vision of their cooperation, coordination of their actions, which has been outlined in the framework of the Responsible Development Strategy. Previously, what was linked by these individual institutions was that they were all supervised by state entities. However, they were different entities, they were fixed, so to speak, in various ministries, they operate - that is, and now - in different forms: the bank, the agency, the company, they operate on the basis of their own separate regulations. An element of the vision outlined in the Responsible Development Strategy is, however, to seek synergies in this field or to fight for it, in order to strengthen this cooperation and, above all, to plan and coordinate it. In a nutshell This is the essence of the project I'm presenting here today. A few words may even be about the concept of an institution of development. It is not a Polish concept, nor is it a new concept. Next, I would like to talk a little bit about what it looks like in other countries. There is also a European aspect here, and these institutions also have a role to play in this field. Finally, I would like to briefly discuss some of the basic, already detailed solutions contained in the project. As far as development institutions, such systems, groups of capital, such institutions are concerned, it is worth pointing out that they operate primarily in Germany and France - they also operate in other countries, whereas these are so large European economies that we naturally look at them as a reference point. It should be noted that the German Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau plays a major role in the German economy and, if one can say so, sometimes complements certain market gaps. It happens that players participating on purely commercial terms in the market are not willing to make certain investments or carry out certain tasks, and that's where the player enters, for example. He participated in the privatisation of Deutsche Post or Deutsche Telekom. The main actions here are to support exports, to grant aid funds, above all to companies in the SME sector, and to support the development or expansion of the German economy outside the country. A similar concept, a little differently realized, is also in France. There we have, for example. The Deposit and Consignation Fund, which manages e.g. part of the pension schemes available on the French market. We also have such activities here in the area of investment, in the area of supporting the development of the country, in helping exports. These are models from developed, more developed economies than ours, where these institutions or groups of institutions are acting in a coordinated, orderly and, as I say, as if on the border, I would say whether taking into account the requirements of the country's development policy, but also respecting the principles of market playing. This idea, let's say, of this type of action, has guided us at the stage of creating a strategy for responsible development, which is also reflected in the presented project. The basic assumption of the project is that the various institutions that I listed, thanks to the merging role of the PFR, should focus precisely on one group, the Group of the Polish Development Fund. It is, of course, necessary to respect the separation of institutions. As I said, they have separate legal regimes, different specificities both in terms of, say, corporate and financial terms. Nevertheless, it is possible - this is what the draft law provides - to coordinate its own tasks. Yes, own tasks, these are still the own tasks of individual institutions. On the other hand, we want by adopting a document, which in this project is called the strategy of the Polish Development Fund Group, these institutions themselves impose a mechanism of coordination, harmonisation of their actions. It is about not having competitive action against each other, which has sometimes happened in the past. It is also about obtaining savings and achieving synergies between them. The mechanism proposed by the Act is, of course, merely a complement to existing coordination mechanisms, such as from the level of ownership supervision or from the level of cooperation between the various actors on the principle of freedom of contract. This type of cooperation and coordination is already taking place, but we are trying to give it a certain institutional framework in order to consolidate it, and so that certain mechanisms can be strengthened in law. It is also worth referring to more detailed solutions and to mention that the project lists the tasks carried out by the PFR. These tasks are to be carried out in accordance with the wording of the project on a market basis. They consist of both carrying out their own projects and carrying out joint projects within the PFR Group and coordinating all development institutions. In addition to carrying out business activities, the project also provides for the performance of tasks entrusted by government authorities, other bodies carrying out public tasks or local government units in the field of capital investment. We also have tasks carried out through a subsidiary of PFR - PFR Ventures. These include, in particular, financing for entrepreneurs, in particular for SMEs, in areas such as capital investment, support for entrepreneurs, environmental protection, research, development and innovation, training and advice, recruitment and recruitment of disadvantaged workers, disabled workers, repair of damage caused by certain natural disasters, social projects for transport for residents of remote regions, infrastructure, investments in broadband infrastructure, preservation of cultural heritage, multi-purpose sport infrastructure, recreational infrastructure, local infrastructure. The financing conditions will, of course, be compatible with the common market within the meaning of Article. 107 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The provision creates a legal framework for the involvement of public funds in the financing of these PFR tasks. They will come, i.e., they may come, because they are a legal framework, from the budget of the European Union, from special subsidies from the state budget, and at the justified request of the fund from the increase in the capital of the PFR through the transfer by the Minister of Treasury Finance of securities for this purpose. In the latter case, this will also apply to the tasks of the fund carried out on a commercial basis, but within the scope of the catalogue of objectives indicated in the project, which I mentioned earlier. PFR commitments for borrowing or issuing bonds will be guaranteed by the Treasury on behalf of which the Council of Ministers will act at the request of the Minister of Finance in this case. In conclusion, the draft law is an important step towards the creation and further development of an integrated system of development institutions called the PFR Group. This concept is about coordinating, harmonising the activities of institutions that already exist. They exist, act and carry out their tasks, but the idea is to make them work more coherently. They shall carry out their tasks in accordance, taking into account the economic policy of the Council of Ministers, with the division of competences and with integrated supervision. Development institutions will be required to adopt a common strategy to diagnose the market situation and to identify ways of coordinating tasks in the field of support or services provided to businesses. The obligation of cooperation between development institutions will be introduced to implement a common strategy on the principles of coordination and mutual complementing competences, which in the hope of the projectors will allow better use of resources and competences, generate savings, synergies and the vision of responsible development strategy, which is sometimes summarised by the English expression "one-stop shop." We want institutions to work together in this area, and entrepreneurs who seek help know where to go. Later, perhaps within the group and certain specializations may be directed e.g. to PAIH, if they are interested in exporting or to PARP, if they are interested in EU funds. This is the fundamental objective of the project and I would therefore like to ask you kindly to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u249	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Andrzej Noblet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the PiS Parliamentary Club on the government draft law on the system of development institutions, print No 3479. The aim of this draft law is to regulate the rules and strengthen cooperation between the main institutions of the State implementing economic and social development measures using economic instruments. In order to achieve this objective, mechanisms will be introduced to ensure coordination and mutual complementarity of the following entities: Polish Development Fund SA, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, Export Credit Insurance Corporation, Polish Investment and Trade Agency SA and Industrial Development Agency SA. In the current legal situation, these entities carry out their tasks separately. Their legal form is not the same, because we have stock companies, a state bank and a state legal person. The only common feature of these institutions is their subordinateness to the authorities of the State. It is therefore appropriate to adopt legal solutions that will allow for a rapid synergy effect. This concept is adopted in many EU countries, e.g. in the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Hungary and Slovakia. An important feature of these systems is their consolidation within the dominant entity, as well as the clearly defined scope of the tasks pursued and the coordination of activities in areas defined as development. It is also worth noting that the development institutions also play a key role in the implementation of the Investment Plan for Europe, adopted by the European Commission in 2014. In the European Commission's view, market failures can lead to a reduction in investment and thus to lower economic development in the future than that which would be economically effective. In addition, development investments allow for greater synergies between EU funds, funding provided by the European Investment Bank and Member States' national programmes. The strategy for responsible development adopted by the Government of PiS assumes the regulation of the functioning of development institutions that serve the implementation of Poland's development policy, including by supplementing the private sector. The proposed law will also allow for the expansion of financial instruments offered by state development institutions. Such actions are necessary to strengthen companies operating in Poland. Combining the potential of all development institutions will achieve synergies and increase opportunities for obtaining market funding, facilitating particularly large projects. The above-mentioned strategy for responsible development provides that the institution integrating the system of development institutions will be the Polish Development Fund SA and the other development institutions will cooperate within the Polish Development Fund Group. The permanent mechanism of cooperation between development institutions is to be ensured by the Council of the Polish Development Fund Group. The Council will act on the principles of consensus and equality between all institutions. The Act provides that the Polish Development Fund will finance entrepreneurs, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the bill now being presented during further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u251	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u252	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! According to the justification of the project, it concerns the regulation of rules and the strengthening of cooperation between the main institutions of the State carrying out tasks for economic and social development. This objective is to be achieved through mechanisms to ensure coordination and complementarity between the following actors. Let me not mention them because they are in this project and were mentioned by my previous speaker. According to the designers, these entities currently perform their tasks in a legal sense separately. The legal form of these institutions varies. The common feature is to be subject to the authorities of the State and, moreover, there is no formal level of cooperation at the same level and coordination as the applicants claim, i.e. there is no involvement in current cases. Ministries and ministries serving them. The project also changes, ladies and gentlemen, in the Act on PPK, i.e. amends the definition of remuneration. In parallel, this has already been regulated in another law, so there will probably be an amendment. This provision in this law had no justification. The project was sent by letter of 15 March to employers' organisations, trade unions and trade unions asking for an opinion by 8 April. There have been reservations about the way the project is dealt with and a negative assessment of the subject of the amendment has been issued, and I quote: the adopted procedure and the scope of the revision of the PPK Act undermine confidence in the new institution. There was a protest in the absence of a proposal for consultation under Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 trade union laws. The objective set out in the explanatory memorandum of the project can be achieved on the basis of a cooperation agreement between entities and the statutory regulation is not necessary here, especially since it is not flexible, and every time it is subject to any changing conditions, this law needs to be amended. This is a centralized and directly subordinate act of the political authorities. Introduces e.g. the rapid path of recapitalisation of the Polish Fund for Tax Development with securities, while excluding art. 97, Art. 98 and Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 102. The regulation on specific treasury securities, the content of the letter of issue and the orders to sell securities for consideration on the original market are hereby waived. This should be examined on a case-by-case basis for compliance with EU State aid law. There is also doubt about the regulation concerning guarantees and guarantees of repayment of credit liabilities and bonds issued by the Polish Development Fund. One of the legal solutions used here concerns public investment projects of particular importance for the national economy. Treasury guarantee up to 100% the amount of commitments also if the analysis shows that the Polish Development Fund will not be able to fulfil its commitments, de facto it will become irreparable aid. In conjunction with the planned strategy building of the new system, it can be concluded that the players involved in the implementation of existing legal measures to promote entrepreneurship can be involved by means of the means at their disposal in the implementation of central government investment. There are also doubts about the changed way of financing entrepreneurs, i.e. the changes that this law was supposed to introduce in the PPK case, as I have already mentioned. At this stage of work, it means a negative recommendation from my club. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u253	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the criticism that has already been said by my previous speaker, I wanted to talk about this strategy, which is to be developed for these six institutions of the Polish Development Fund. We have Export Credit Insurance Corporation among these institutions. How can this corporation predict for five years what it's going to spend credit insurance for and for what? This corporation operates according to its mode. It is requested by other exporters, with applications for export credit insurance, and I do not really imagine that it will be subject to the strategy from which it will be settled annually, the strategy in force for 5 years. So those who report to her, but won't want to participate in this strategy, won't get credit insurance? Or maybe the corporation will have to give to whoever's in the strategy, even though it doesn't. the conditions required for granting credit insurance? I think what's going to happen here is some kind of bureaucratic growth. And it will either be fiction, or it will disenfranchise institutions that have been appointed for specific tasks in accordance with the required procedures. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u255	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 a position regarding the draft law on the system of development institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! For the sake of clarity, the focus is on entrepreneurs, creating a framework for free business, helping entrepreneurs to do business, that is, developing an economy. Of course, such a system is needed and should be assessed positively, but in this law six Polish development institutions are mentioned, which are intended to support... [[Voice from the room: Seven.]] There are six described. Okay, maybe seven. Six or seven are not that important, but there are several development institutions. [[Voice from the O.R.: Six.]] The question is, why do we need six or seven development institutions, or wouldn't one institution be better? Kukiz,15 is a supporter of the cheap, not too complex institutionally, but also of the smooth state. However, the projector proposes to develop such a framework for cooperation so that six or seven development institutions meet the same objective. So what was their goal so far? After all, a strategy for responsible development was adopted in which all these institutions are de facto subject to the Polish government. It turns out that a special law needs to be created on the basis of which they can work together or pursue the same objective and strategy. This solution seems pretty weird. Forgive the comparison, but this reminds me of the cars of Nysa and Zhuk, when two commercial vehicles were manufactured in Lublin and Nysa in Opole. What was the point of separating these two factories and producing de facto the same two cars, and thus reducing the potential of both of them? If it were one factory, for example. In Nysa, then probably its efficiency would be greater. The same here, if it were one institution of development, which in its competence would have all the scopes that individual institutions deal with today, it would be more efficient, cheaper and more efficient. Of course, the number of synecurs to fill would also decrease. And yet every institution of development is also to a large extent a place where you can have your party colleagues, families or other friends, so to speak, install. Ladies and gentlemen! We're all in favour of investigating this bill. If there's going to be a way to improve the functioning of these institutions, that's good. If that's what the bill is for - all right, let's work on it. On the other hand, consistently, since we arrived in the Seym, we postulate and postulate the state cheap, efficient, effective, and not necessarily effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u257	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u258	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to say that the devil is in the details, because when you listen to the justification of the Minister, it seems simple and obvious, but if you go into certain details, then there are quite large doubts. Of course, we need the cooperation of those institutions that work on, so to speak, the market for development support, all the more so because... I am pleased that we are finally talking about sustainable development, because so far all these declarations of sustainable development have not worked. This is seen in many regions, which are not developing, and we have heard many times in the political declarations that such a development will take place. Of course, I am wondering because there is such a provision in the text that it will not result in expenditure from the state budget. On the other hand, it is said that securities will be issued, which are not, of course, sovereign debt, but subsequently constitute public debt, sovereign debt. So it's just a bypass. These financial issues raise a number of doubts and I think, too, I wonder if there is something behind it because we've had a lot of these cases. In this House, we supported solutions that were passwordably right and in terms of the development of the country very important, and then it turned out that it was used to bring money somewhere. Let's see what it looks like in the procession, we're at the first reading stage. I think that if we discuss the individual records in detail, we will be wondering about further support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u259	Thank you very much, sir. Now I wanted to cordially welcome the group from Torun, Anger and surroundings. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]] And now Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Parliamentary Club. There is no Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? There you go. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u260	A well-understood and well-founded step is to develop systems-based cooperation between development institutions in order to maximise the synergy of their activities for the implementation of responsible development strategies. However, I have the impression that the most serious barriers to the development of Polish entrepreneurship are the chronic lack of serious investment capital and innovation leaving much to be desired, remaining mainly in the sphere of pious wishes. What changes can be made in this regard through the proposed solutions? I am particularly interested in how in simulations, which the resort carries out, it is possible to improve the innovation and complexity of the production carried out in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u261	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u262	Dear Marshal! Minister! Most major countries in the world have a system of development institutions - regardless of the system and economic doctrine. Moreover, a large number of countries in the world have been pursuing an integrated model in recent years to improve efficiency. Is it possible to develop the fund and work closely with other countries after the experience gained in the future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u263	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u264	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! I wanted to ask questions about changing the definition of remuneration in the Polish Capital Plans Act. What's that supposed to do? What was that all about? That's one thing. Second: Why has the law not been addressed to consultations under Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Two trade union laws? As I said, there's a protest here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Why do you even need this bill? Why create a Group of the Polish Development Fund, since from the law, since the strategy for responsible development indicated that the Polish Development Fund should function? Granted, this Polish Development Fund was created following the example of Polish Development Investments, a creation operating in the previous term of office, and was supposed to work effectively. I suspect it was because it didn't work effectively. So I have a question about the achievements of the Polish Development Fund. Is the head of the Polish Development Fund unable to act effectively because these are difficult, expensive investments? That's why responsibility needs to be blurred, and that's why cooperation is being spread to many development institutions, such an administrative and bureaucratic creation over this... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once I get to the specifics, the only concrete thing is the liquidation of the National Capital Fund and its absorption by the Polish Development Fund. I don't see any more details in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u268	I would like to ask whether the practical consequences of this law have been examined when it comes into force. Let's say there's an export credit insurance corporation that has its own rules, its own requirements, its own criteria, and it's influenced by the various applications of companies that want to export. However, now that this law has entered into force, some strategy will be in force for five years. Let's say that the strategy was adopted a month ago, and a company is reporting with some great export project, just the kind of industry that is not foreseen in this strategy. Will its request therefore be examined at all or not? It may be that then, when it is settled with this strategy, with its execution, it turns out that the export credit insurance company gave its insurance to very good projects, but not to the ones that were previously invented in this strategy. I wonder if this strategy, which they are supposed to develop for themselves for five years, will help them, or will spoil their ability to act in accordance with these statutes, the principles on which they operate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u269	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions. The first is this: Do you, instead of integrating the system of development institutions, provide for the harmonisation of this system by creating a single development institution that has all the competences of the six that function today? This would be a simplification, there would be lower costs, and more efficiency, and this is also mentioned in the justification for the bill. Second question: How many new jobs will be created as a result of the adoption and entry into force of this law, i.e. how many jobs will be created in the institution and development system, not in the economy, but in the institution and integrated development system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u272	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. I specifically mentioned this in my speech: sustainable development. What is the instrument here so that this sustainable development can finally function? Because apart from the fact that it's been said for four years, you can't see the effects. Another thing is the group's advice, which is to act on a consensus basis. The consensus with several organizations - the doubts here raised the number of these organizations: whether six or seven - is difficult to obtain, because each of these institutions is independent. How's this gonna work? How will this consensus be achieved, because here everyone will fight for their goal, institutional interest? I believe that it will be very difficult to reach a consensus while maintaining independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u273	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a question. What is the real purpose of the draft law on the system of development institutions? It is clear that coordination of the activities of development actors in Poland is needed. And there's no doubt about that. But I share the view of many critics of this law that this can be achieved by means of an agreement, otherwise, while the adoption of a law, which will limit subsequent action, is indeed a misunderstanding. It is really not possible to create such statements today at the Sejm that this will maximise synergies. And really, please consider whether such a law should be passed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That doesn't bring anything in. It's just a political umbrella. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u275	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a practical question. The outcome of the world is changing, and today these various economic activities are changing very quickly, and we are adopting this strategy for 5 years. Enough of that, the six agencies that operate have their strategies written. And they are really very specific and very narrow. What happens if the company needs some kind of support, because suddenly it's gonna fall, something happens, something's gonna be in the market, and it's not written down in any strategy of all these agencies and state institutions? What can this company, its representative, do to benefit from the help of these institutions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u277	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Enterprise and Technology of Minister Mark Nieblużak to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me to focus on issues directly related to this bill. Let me just remind you that there is no such thing as this project. PPK. It was the project that's already been passed. This project was passed on to trade unions and RDS, because it primarily concerns the development institutions we are talking about here, and it was also consulted with them. So that's it. He doesn't have a solution... This project, discussed by us at first reading, does not contain solutions concerning PPK. These are the solutions contained in the project, which, as far as I know, has already been adopted by the Sejm and by the Senate, or perhaps even signed by the President. There was also a question of why there are so many institutions of development, why not one, why not do such unification. Let me say this, first of all, which I think one of you has referred to here, is not that these institutions are new, or that we are creating them now. Most of them have history. Some, like BGK, even before the war. I'm just mentioning BGK for a reason. BGK is a bank, so he's tied up. whether or not he has to comply with banking law. This is a different specificity, these are different requirements, these are also different costs than e.g. in the case of PARP, which is simply an agency providing EU support to businesses. It seems to me that the idea of creating one conglomerate here, which would be obliged to observe at the same time as many different legal regimes depending on what it does, is not a good idea. It seems to me that a certain variety of these institutions is actually their strength, although it is also linked to some challenges. Such a challenge is e.g. it is the need for coordination, which we are trying to improve here. The question was whether we were planning to create some new jobs related to this bill. No, we don't expect to create any new jobs related to this bill. What's her real purpose? That's a question, too. Maybe I'll be a little disappointed: the goal is what it is written here and what we've been trying to tell you. The point is that there should be a legal framework for this cooperation, which is already there. I absolutely agree that an agreement can be reached - as far as I am aware, such an agreement is concluded and these institutions are cooperating - but let me say this: this additional institutional level, which formalises this cooperation, also has value. It seems to me that this straightaway explains some issues without the need to clarify them at the stage of the agreement, and let us leave more specific issues to the agreement already concluded between these actors, within the legal limits which we are drawing up here. At least two questions raise such a thought: What exactly is this strategy for? What's with the strategy? What if the world changes in a year or two? This is an argument that, if you really cared, you would never accept any strategic documents. Of course the strategy paper is at a certain level of generality. It's like, let's say, the horizon, it's looking away. He can't be too detailed. However, this is not an argument for me never to adopt any strategy. On the contrary, every serious institution, every serious company also thinks about its strategy and thinks about where it wants to be in 5 years or 10 years, even though of course reality is variable and none of us know the day or the hour. I do not buy or accept the argument that the volatility of unconvincable reality causes that we should not adopt strategic documents at all. On the contrary, a good strategy should even provide for several options and take into account, for example, economic situation good, medium, weak. I believe it is justified for such a document to exist. As regards this question concerning such concerns about KUKE, it can even be generalised to the various institutions, please note that here the Act clearly states that this strategy must take into account specific provisions. We do not interfere in the way KUKE will carry out its statutory tasks. We interfere or try to define the obligation to harmonise this, because before we started building this system of development institutions, sometimes there were situations where individual institutions were able to offer similar, competitive products to each other. Competition on the market is good. Competition, when public money is spent, is not a good thing, is a waste. It's just to avoid this waste. That's the synergy effect. I agree with such a diagnosis that Poland is still a country that is struggling with a lack of capital. One of the tasks of the PFR, but not only of the whole group, is to offer this capital especially in areas where a purely commercial institution will not necessarily be prepared to offer it. This is particularly evident in the financing of SMEs. We all know that Polish SMEs have problems with access to capital. This capital may be, but it's usually very expensive. Both BGK and PFR, as well as some of the activities initially undertaken by the ARP, are trying to address this. As regards regional development, please note that these PFR tasks I mentioned, for example. infrastructure investments, etc., certainly have this dimension too. PFR also cooperates with local authorities. There are tools for this type of action, taking into account the needs of sustainable development and these regional differences. With regard to concrete achievements, projects carried out by the PFR, I will say this: this law does not apply, perhaps I will disappoint the questioners, but I invite you tomorrow, because we have a designated committee meeting, there will be a representative of the PFR. As far as I know, he will have prepared information specifically about the projects, about the activities of the Polish Development Fund. I hope that this presentation will satisfy this need for information on current projects, achievements and successes of the fund. As I say, I would first like to stick to the scope of this project. And the question was, What is this whole group for? Why wouldn't the PFR itself be enough? A little of what I've already said can be considered an answer. It is precisely this range, this spectrum of tasks is so large that for various organisational reasons, also due to different legal regimes, it should not be or should not actually be possible to imagine that it is all in one institution. That was the case with the SOR. The PFR Group is also in the SOR. There has never been such an idea that there will be only PFR, and the rest, I don't know, will be for some unification. No, it was a group concept from the beginning. Of course, this cooperation is already there. She is being led, as I think you have noticed here, on the basis of this agreement. She's good, but we think she might be better. We're just trying to get these things, so to speak, to move to a higher level, to a level of regulation. There was a question about public aid, its compatibility with EU law. Of course, each grant will be examined for compliance with EU law. It's obvious. This is also part of this project. Why is part of the provision of guarantees excluded? Because here we have a specific regulation, because it refers to a company governed by commercial law. It was necessary, together with the Ministry of Finance, to write these regulations, so to speak, in a twin way, but also in a suitable way, taking into account the specifics. We have a warranty procedure modelled on this fundamental one, but taking into account some specific features. There was also the thought that there was an element of some centralization. I can only say yes. Here is part of some coordination, harmonisation and centralisation. That's what the strategy's supposed to be for. It's not a hard mechanism. This is a rather soft mechanism, supplementing in addition other levels, whether contractual level or level of ownership supervision. It's like there's another supplement. But I do realize that this is a charge: you want to centralize it more. Yes, so that it is coordinated, so that it is thought out on the basis of one common strategy, so that the money is spent in a more efficient and cost-effective way. I'm looking at the questions I've been writing down, and I think... And there was also a question about how this strategy will be adopted if unanimity is foreseen there. There is real unanimity there, but given that, as I say, this is not the only level of cooperation, since there is also ownership supervision and agreement just between actors, but I believe that - and the strategic document must necessarily be general, variant, this is not an exact plan of action, what we will be doing this year in particular, because this is often the result of strategies specifically already these actors, and from separate provisions - that this consensus can be worked out. But I would also draw your attention to the fact that if you don't, it is there that, so to speak, the mechanism, plan B, i.e. that if this cannot be done unanimously, there is always a reduced requirement, a majority requirement. But I believe that this kind of document can be agreed unanimously in this group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u279	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the system of development institutions, contained in print No 3479, to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and certain other laws, the Act on energy efficiency and the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels (prints No 3498 and 3502). I would very much like to ask Mr Dariusz Kubiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, a meeting of the Energy and Treasury Commission took place in which the first reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the excise duty law and certain other laws, the Energy Efficiency Act and the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels took place. First of all, I would like to point out that the proposed amendments to the laws mentioned by me are highly pro-social. The first one allows to continue in the second half of 2019 to protect electricity consumers in Poland from energy price increases. The second is to reach out to those who have invested in energy efficiency, hoping for state support, but have not yet received this support for various reasons. The third amendment will allow for the request for support for the purchase of electric cars by individuals, i.e. so-called. ordinary citizens. Now I would like to move on to a detailed discussion of the provisions of the bill and the amendments made to the committee. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 It is proposed to amend the Law of 28 December 2018 amending the Law on excise duties, i.e. so-called. Act on electricity prices. The amendment corrects the functioning mechanism to stabilise electricity prices, clarifying doubts as to the compatibility of the law with European law. As a result, the project introduces a differentiation of the mechanism for the first and second half of 2019. In the first half of 2019 all end-users of electricity will not pay higher prices than in 2018. In the second half of 2019 as many as 98% of final customers, i.e. over 17 million consumers, will not feel an increase in electricity prices. These recipients will be among others.: households with around 15 million micro-enterprises, which are about 2 million, small businesses with about 57,000, hospitals and public finance units, including local governments. Average and large entrepreneurs in the second half of the year will be covered by a 95% reduction in the transitional fee as well as other recipients. and a reduction in excise duty. In addition, the proposed rules provide for the possibility for medium-sized and large enterprises to apply for funding charged to electricity consumed in the second half of 2019 under the de minimis aid scheme. Two amendments to the Rule were tabled during the committee's work. 1 a project aimed at linking the deadline for amending the agreements concluded between trading companies and final recipients with the deadline for issuing the Regulation by the Minister for Energy. Such a link exists already in the current provisions of the Law of 28 December 2018 and there is no need for additional deadlines for amending these agreements. As a result of the amendments made to the Article. In point 2, point 1 is deleted. a and the wording added in Article has been amended. Article 6 (6) (a) 5. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 A revision of the Energy Efficiency Act is proposed. The amendment involves extending the validity of energy efficiency certificates. This is so important that some of them were not even issued by the Energy Regulatory Office, so the entities to which they belong did not have the possibility to sell these certificates on the stock exchange. Some energyists point out, perhaps rightly so, that energy efficiency is the first fuel that should be used in the energy mix. So we propose not to leave with such a big problem the players who have invested in this efficiency, because in the future they may not make any further decisions in this regard. During the work of the committee, amendments were made to the Article. 2 by deleting in Article. Points 1 and 2 to avoid doubts as to the compatibility of the provisions of the draft with the Energy Efficiency Directive, thus giving the article a new wording. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels is amended. This amendment is intended to enable the acquisition of electric vehicles and hydrogen-using vehicles by natural persons not engaged in economic activities to be requested. Art. 4 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing In turn, the article. 6 introduces an obligation for the Minister of Energy to issue a regulation to the Act on electricity prices within 21 days of the date of entry into force of the Act, so that the entire payment procedure for the fund for energy companies will be initiated and contracts with final recipients will be amended, which have not yet been amended. We propose that the law enter into force on the day following the date of publication. The entry into force of the Act on the day following the date of its publication shall be justified by the division of 2019 into two mechanisms to stabilise electricity prices for final customers. The exception is Art. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act as amended by Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This deadline is due to the need to maintain the validity of energy efficiency certificates. During the work of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, in addition to the substantive changes mentioned by me, the legislative changes notified by the Legislative Bureau were introduced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u281	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Maciej Małecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law amending the law of 28 December Ub. on amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, the Energy Efficiency Act and the Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels Act. In fact, the law is very pro-social in three areas, the rapporteur of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury spoke about it. Firstly, we maintain the blockade of the increase in electricity prices in Poland. We kept our word, we reacted in December, when electricity prices rose dramatically throughout Europe after the carbon emission allowances went up. Energy prices in Poland have been stopped, but work on this is a process. The Minister of Energy is in constant dialogue with the European Commission and the changes that appear in this law are also the result of these discussions. On the other hand, the electricity price target remains unchanged - we protect Poles from rising electricity prices. We want Poles not to feel hitting their wallets as a result of an increase in electricity prices. The Polish economy should also be competitive due to electricity prices. Law and Justice stand firm in the view that the cost of energy must be a competitive advantage for our economy. The second point is to extend the validity of energy efficiency certificates by 2 years, i.e. so-called. White certificates. The cheapest energy is the energy that will not be consumed, so it is worth meeting the demands of those who have invested in this energy, also in order to encourage such investments in the future. The third point of this law, i.e. the amendment of the third of the laws, the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels, is the opening of the possibility for individuals to apply for support for the purchase of green cars powered by hydrogen. Maintaining low electricity prices, protecting Poles from rising electricity prices is a process. For this reason, we present this law today, so that in the second half of the year Polish electricity consumers will also be effectively protected and not feel, looking at their bills, an increase in electricity prices. High Izbo! Law and Justice will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u283	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u284	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll make a statement on behalf of the club. I'll start by saying that history likes to repeat itself. There used to be a time when the secretary of the well-managed party at that time, after arguing about the fact that prices are too high and salaries are too small, locked himself in his office and prepared a network of wages in Poland for Saturday and Sunday, who is supposed to make money on a given job and what it costs. Now I have the overwhelming impression that it is the government and, on behalf of the government, the minister, he said: energy is going to cost so much. It doesn't matter what the cost of manufacturing is. According to the previous speakers, the most important thing is that you have to pay that much, that's all. Allegedly, it's in the interests of the citizen. In December we received a bill that we criticized from A to Z and warned that it had short legs, that it is wrong that it leads to distortions, but we did not vote against. We have given you, Minister, and the government a chance to draw up regulations, to think about rational measures. And in those six months, nothing's been done. Today, at the meeting of the committee, a representative of the local government unit, the Association of Polish Cities explained: no one consulted us. We don't know how to collect invoices, we don't know what to do. We have 28 days, we must have those costs that have now been prepared, included in the price of services, because for a long time, for six months, the price of water, heat, municipal services must be calculated, because it cannot be different. Hotelers, tourist companies say: after all, we have to pay for services and we have to calculate as it is. Energy prices have increased, and what the Prime Minister said in December and later he said that the energy price will not increase is an obvious lie. I am very sorry about this lecturer to stress that such high-ranking officials lie to Poles. And what else do we hear today? We hear more than 90% of people won't pay more. That's right, but that's 90%. these are individual consumers who do not have the slightest impact on what is happening in the energy market. That's over 15 million. And what is the impact of this 1.5 million or almost 1.6 million of these The biggest ones who pay, who produce, who provide services? They already pay more and they will pay more because the de minimis aid concerns only a certain time and limit. They're gonna pay, it's not true they're not gonna pay any more. It's obvious. And what does the government do to put this situation under the rug? He's just making a bill because it's the easiest thing to do. We guarantee that energy prices in Poland will not increase. What do you need to call? The institution needs to expand the administration, which means a special fund must be set up to raise money. It is necessary to establish an institution that will examine and decide who to give, who not to give. The account manager, the prices - this will be the institution, and of course there will be a politician, the minister, who will watch over how this money will be redistributed. Where's the money coming from? That's an interesting question: where will the money come from? To pay compensation to those who have to sell below costs and give to those who issue higher invoices and now have to take them off the market, e.g. from the sale of emission allowances. And what should this money be used for? To invest in RES, to improve efficiency, to manage distribution, to transfer, to what is not going to be invested in now, because we are about to run out of money. What's gonna happen next? After all, this law is an electoral law, only for 2019. And in 2020 there will be a tense spring that will hit citizens' pockets, the final recipients, because they'll pay for it all. The market has its rights, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not the minister who's gonna decide the cost, and people are gonna pay for it like proverbial oxen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u285	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz.15. [[Voice from the room: Hurry up, Christopher, hurry up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 vis-à-vis the parliamentary draft law amending the Act amending the Excise Tax Act and certain other laws, the Energy Efficiency Act and the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels. Generally, energy prices on the Polish market are worrying. It is very important to stabilise prices for citizens so that farms do not bear increased operating costs. The fact is that this is not exactly a dream, because the law will practically apply only until the end of the year in this shape, and then a new long-term solution needs to be developed. As for the emissions market, I would ask you very much, I would appeal to the Minister, however, to talk to the European Union about the climate package, which is very hitting the specificities of the Polish energy market. And here's the question: what are the government's actions in this area? Another issue is to support the purchase of vehicles with alternative drives, i.e. electric or hydrogen driven. This is about supporting the purchase of vehicles. It is known that in the European Union, vehicles powered by alternative fuels, and in particular hydrogen, are not sold to citizens, are made available within the framework of the so-called. long-term rental, due to the policy of companies that make such cars serially. And here I would like to know whether long-term rental of alternative fuel vehicles will also be refinanced with support for the citizen. This is a very important thing because we can have such a situation that the law generally provides a pretty good solution, but it does not work in practice. And if there is a long-term rental of hydrogen-powered cars on the European market, it is expected that the same solution will be on the Polish market. One more thing. This will be in the context of current questions tomorrow, but on the occasion and on the presence of the Minister, I would very much like to ask you a question about internal transactions in the energy market and not a fully functioning stock exchange obligation. 30% energy in the energy market passes through the Freight Energy Exchange. The result is that in wholesale markets this price from 170 PLN, 175 PLN has now gone under 280 PLN, which in the energy-intensive industry practically causes the production to stop. Here too, I would like to get an answer on what actions will be taken to support energy-intensive industries. Kukiz.15 supports the proposed solutions, but also, as I say, I would like to hear about the issue of clarifying citizens' support in purchasing, possibly long-term rental of cars with alternative drives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u288	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to say, because later I will forget that we thank for the white certificates, because this had to be improved a long time ago. At the same time, it seems to me that the 2-year period, as the housing communities claim, is too short. It should be given, for an indefinite period, to run out or for a longer period of time. That's so good. On the other hand, going back to the first point, this fundamental price of electricity, I remember perfectly what was on December 28th. The extraordinary meeting of the Sejm, in express mode, we are meeting because the Prime Minister wants to announce, the Minister wants to announce that, here, Poles, there will be no increase in electricity prices. We said from that bleacher: These mechanisms do not guarantee this. Was this agreed with the European Union? What is the position of the European Union? - Don't worry, we'll sort it all out, negotiate it, settle it. And what did it turn out to be? That energy prices are higher. What I'm trying to say is that today the Rzeszów government has 67%. higher electricity price. It's six months, the price is higher, it's paid. After several speeches, President Ferenc receives a reply from PGE that by 4% It will reduce the price of electricity. And there wasn't supposed to be a raise. And the question is: How does this translate into services? It's reschedule because you can see it. That's all we're talking about here, all these laws are in place and they have the power to hold the price of electricity until September, and after September, after October - it's supposed to be elections in October - it's going to be armagedon. After all, this cannot be avoided and the price of electricity artificially stopped. We have a power bill. She's gonna come in, she's gonna function. We're not talking about it, but it's somewhere in front of us, accepted by the High House. What we are discussing at the moment is to be valid until the end of the year, artificially, on brakes - held with two legs, so that the people do not find out sometimes, so that someone does not say that energy prices may rise. The question is, how much, because it won't be 5% That won't be 10%. Is it going to be like in the case of local governments, or is it going to be twice as much? Because all this stuff... We don't know what's causing this anymore. Today the energy market and the energy system has been so unstable, so corrupt that its repair will be very difficult and will be very costly for our economy, for industry. And the people will feel it. We can somehow block the price increase for a certain period of time, because it is blocking, but on the other hand a circle will be rolled, which will strike through energy prices, services, goods. It's all about energy today. So you cannot believe, having experienced these six-monthly, since December 28th, all the declarations that fall here, because they are supposed to be valid until the end of this year, but the world does not end, Poles want to live after the New Year, after the elections that await us. And the consequences will be very sad, and we would like to hear it from the Minister here, but to be credible, as would be the case with the current economic, legal system, and not with any visions here. Another thing - the parliamentary project. Such a serious project, where responsibility for energy prices is taken, should be a government project, not a parliamentary project, because later he will not be guilty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then the minister will say, "This is what the Members wanted, and that is what we did." Before that, following the first approach, on 28 December, the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats supported these solutions with the hope that this will serve the citizens. We warned you. At the moment we will support, but we warn and we say straight: these are not good solutions, these are the worst of the worst that could have been applied. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u289	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u290	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! Further, energy and climate policies simply cannot be pursued in this way. Despite the smile on the Minister's face, this problem that sounds very intense will soon explode. And all citizens and all citizens will pay for this explosion. This is not just about the issue of electricity bills, which are of course very important, but above all about health and life. Climate change is an undeniable fact, contrary to some of the views of the Minister. For these climate change, for the lack of government action in this respect We'll pay all of us and our children. [[Voice from the room: For climate change?]] The issue of RES development, the issue of civic energy, energy efficiency - this should be the subject of very deep reflection and real action from now on. You sell the right to emit CO2 and this money should be used for these three elements: RES, energy efficiency and civic energy. In the meantime, you are offering us, on the one hand, that by the end of the year electricity bills that citizens pay will not increase. You're talking about the fact that there's going to be a law for energy-intensive companies as well. But what about the end of the year? What is the long-term action plan for 2020, 2021, 2022? After all, the cost of CO2 emissions is rising and you know it. This project - which addresses such an important aspect - was not subject to any public consultation. We know, of course, that the project was written by the government, but that it was reported by Members, it is only a matter of a short legislative path. There was no public consultation with all market players. There was no consultation with the local government, which today sounded very loud at the Energy Commission meeting. There are no impact assessments for the regulation of this bill. This bill, like the one that was proceded in December, is complete chaos. Local government already pays more money for energy, and if they pay more, that is. that we all, residents of municipalities, powiats, voivodships, just pay more. So don't tell us that these costs didn't increase for all residents, because they increased, but indirectly. Minister! What are your plans? What about the RES? What about the potential punishment if we do not achieve the RES target, what is it imposed on Poland? What about the climate package? What about the increase in the cost of CO2 allowances? I would also ask you to refer to the analysis of the Sejm Analysis Office. I understand that it is known to the Minister. It's about compensation. According to the analysis of the compensation office, they can constitute public aid within the meaning of EU rules. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u291	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u292	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For six months the politicians of PiS, including you, Minister, and Prime Minister Morawiecki, have deceived Poles that energy prices will not increase. Meanwhile, local governments, entrepreneurs still pay their bills by 60% to 70% higher than last year. Moreover, it is clear from the provisions of this law that energy companies will increase prices for medium-sized and large enterprises from 1 July. Question: "How much will the energy prices increase?" How will this translate into an increase in prices for goods and services? When will there be a regulation that will reduce prices for local governments? And the question about support for individuals for buying electric cars: What will be the amount to buy such a car? We know that a good electric car costs about 150,000. How are you going to encourage Poles to buy electric cars? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In December, we said you were lying. The Prime Minister lied, the Minister lied. In February, we said you were lying. Today we say you're lying. Even the Members of your party have written this way: objectively, from 1 July 2019 electricity trading companies will offer an increase in energy prices for medium-sized and large enterprises. It's all in this project. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy have already exposed the Members of Law and Justice because they see that they are already lying too much. Minister! The price of energy will increase, among others. for municipal enterprises, large and medium-sized enterprises. So the prices of public transport tickets, the prices in water and sewage companies will increase. I'm sure they'll grow. Tell the Poles, here, from this seymary, how [[♪ The bell ♪]] you will compensate them for the increase in ticket prices, the increase in service prices and, as a result, the increase in food prices and other activities and services which these companies will perform for Poles. Once again, there is an expensive spectrum coming over Poland, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u295	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Not a taste - this is the softest term that many entrepreneurs today have to deal with, and not just because of the energy prices that have already been mentioned here. We are working on extending the term of the energy efficiency certificates, so-called. White certificates from the fifth tender in 2016, valid, note, in 18 days. After that time, white certificates would become worthless and losses would amount to PLN 300.500 million. We know what would result in a loss of validity: a loss of property. The costs incurred could be passed on to the final recipients and we would pay higher bills. And 18 days before the deadline, the ad hoc group shall notify the draft law. This case could have been handled earlier. I've signaled it myself many times. Question to the applicant: Why is the project being reviewed at the last minute at such a rapid pace? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u297	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question. The extension of the term of validity of the tender certificates shall save the system from a situation in which it would de facto cease to operate. However, in view of the large number of requests for consideration by the URE, is it sufficient to extend the deadline by one year? According to the media, the main reason for delays in the procedure carried out by the URE is the low quality of energy audits attached to applications and the need for verification by the Authority. Is there a solution to this problem? Second question. Shouldn't the question of supporting the purchase of vehicles powered by alternative methods be considered and not limited to supporting only electric power supply and hydrogen fuel cells? There are also other types of cells available that could be used in the Polish electromobility development project, of course in creating the right conditions on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u299	Thank you, sir. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We all remember this December setup when you said prices wouldn't increase. You sent calming information to local governments. Of course, nothing like that happened. Contacts. Minister, Wronki - a 63% raise energy prices, Pniewy - raise at 70% , Oborniki - 53% , Rogozno - 67%, New Thought - 56% , Kuślin - 79% , Obsąszyn - 3,63%. Minister! Indeed, local governments expect real help. Many times letters have been sent to energy companies to explain how the Prime Minister's words are going to be made, that prices will not increase, to a real situation where these increases are actually there, because at the end, citizens are paying for it, also in shops. We can see the price. Minister! When will concrete action take place? When will you send specific letters to all local authorities indicating how the costs incurred by the local authorities will be reimbursed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u302	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, by introducing fixed prices in the case of households, you have not made any changes in the prices of the production of this energy, because this decision does not apply. It was a typical election decision. This is a solution that you have introduced to the energy market a huge chaos. On April 10th, I wrote to the Minister of Energy an interpellation on energy prices delivered to plants and local governments. On May 14th, I received an answer. I do not believe this answer because the prices I have to pay for energy from my plants are much higher. Another chaos. Orange's breaking the deal. Out of 240 zł... It ends and the seller comes in, the backup guy. So? You have to pay about 500 with distribution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In some parts of the country, the cost for backup sales is PLN 1500 plus transport. It's a scandal, isn't it? There's never been a jump raise like this before. Where is the tranquillity here, Minister, both the recipients and the producers? This hasn't happened yet. And it has to translate into food prices, because the price of energy is cosmically high, which always has a big cost-based ratio. That's not how you answer, Minister. That's cheating. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u303	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Firstly, I would like to express my disapproval for the lack of decision to extend the white certificates so far. Only today, when it's gone the term of their validity, the government graciously intends to resolve this issue by means of a parliamentary project. It's not right to treat housing cooperatives, communities, local governments. Second thing. I want to ask you a specific question here because you've misled me once before. In the case of the local government of Jelenia Góra there has been an increase in electricity prices by 70%. No negotiations have brought anything. I ask you straight away: Will this project cause the government to pay the prices from June last year? Will the government receive a refund of the money transferred, overpayments and when? Because in this respect information is simply incomplete and variable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u306	Dear Marshal! Minister! I have a question. My point is that you, looking into the eyes of everyone who listens to this debate here, should definitely tell them what the energy prices are going to be for next year. It's not enough for you to tell us what energy prices are today because no one knows. There's total chaos in energy prices. I know somebody can say, "You're kidding, they've been rocking from every side for six months." I would like it to be in the documents, so that next year anyone, regardless of which side he is sitting on, could say: the minister said it whether it and could quote it, show what the minister said. These things aren't credible today. No one believes it anymore. Entrepreneurs don't know what decisions they're going to make, and local governments don't know what's next. Second thing: Why are you taking the money to support renewable energy? That's another thing that's gonna happen in the future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Energy prices are rising because we're not gonna make plans. Renewable energy is cheaper by now, and we're going in the opposite direction. Why is this done? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u307	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. [[300%.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law once again tricked the Poles. [[300%.]] Until recently, Prime Minister Morawiecki and you, Minister, made plans to freeze energy prices in Poland for the whole year 2019. In the meantime, it's different. Energy price increases are guaranteed. Minister! It is tradition that you do not conduct public consultations, do not ask local governments and ignore Poles. The increasing cost of energy purchases reduces the profits of energy consumers and, consequently, investment opportunities. Higher electricity prices will also not be indifferent with regard to prices in shops, especially food prices, which are already high. You're looking for money in the pockets of Poles so that you can pay for other electoral promises. How embarrassing are you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u309	Thank you, Member. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u310	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How does the ministry and the economy operate manually? You have experience in this matter. Let me remind you - the issue fee and PKN Orlen, 1 billion in terms of the deal was to take out PKN Orlen. Yesterday we had a crisis in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa - also manual control. You are accused of taking certain money for political reasons. As a result of manual control, the value of energy companies is falling dramatically. This year's inflation is 2.3, next year it's 2.3 or 2.4 . This is not a simple balance, but inflation is rising more and more as energy prices rise. Please tell us how, after 2020, in your opinion, energy prices for individual, energy-intensive consumers will look like for each end user. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u311	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u312	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Electricity is undoubtedly the foundation of economic development, while pure electricity should be the foundation for the development of energy in the 21st century. Today we are investigating a draft law concerning among others. surcharges for electric cars for individuals, i.e. for so-called. Kowalski. So I have a question. Minister, wouldn't it be better to introduce tax incentives for buying electric cars than to directly subsidise them? In this way, we would not incur huge one-off grant costs. It could be spread out over time and perhaps, and even for sure, the budgetary impact would be milder. When will this program be implemented and how long will it take? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What resources from the State budget are to be allocated to the implementation of these subsidies? So it doesn't turn out, Minister, that at an hour. 0.05 calls for proposals are closed because the pool is over. I would also like to ask why it is society that will pay more for electricity as a result of the destruction by the Government of the Law and Justice sector of renewable energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u313	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u314	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The aim of the Act is certainly also to reduce the risk of companies taking energy-intensive production abroad - sometimes 40% of energy costs for energy-intensive industries all operating costs - and maintaining the competitive position of these companies. I have a question: What countries in Europe have compensation schemes for energy-intensive industries? They are said to be used by most countries in Europe. Does the Ministry have approximate data on the number of plants that have a certified energy management system and those that do not have it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u315	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u316	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the discussion on this draft law, it is worth noting that the modern one also submitted a project in the Sejm, which was intended to extend the validity of the so-called. White certificates. Of course - I agree with my previous speakers here - putting housing cooperatives and other entities in this situation that have implemented cost-intensive investments to improve energy efficiency, taking into account in the calculation the possibility of selling white certificates, was, in short, not fair and good that the ministry went colloquially to reason. Minister, I have a question. Couldn't you have done it before? After all, you knew that these problems had arisen for months, you knew that there would be a breakdown in June and among others. cooperatives that have invested millions, hundreds of millions of zlotys, will be out of parentheses, deprived of [[♪ The bell ♪]] the possibility of recovery of those funds. And second question, Minister. Energy prices were supposed to be lower, but Poles get higher electricity bills. What happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u317	Thank you very much. And the last question is asked by Mr Antoni Mężyłko, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law has destroyed the energy market - this is what all the experts are saying - and you haven't done anything because, as you have heard here, energy prices for local governments are going to rise for small and medium-sized enterprises. And, even worse, energy companies and especially distribution companies are going to go bankrupt. That's just the facts, that's what the forensics are talking about. And besides what happens next year? Will you continue to stabilise this price for individual customers? And the following year, in 2021, when does the Power Market Act enter into force? According to the calculations, this will cost another PLN 40.50 per MWh. This is really a craftsmanship, as you have done with this power market law, because the power market should be a market solution and it should lower the price of energy as a good mechanism, and you have done a completely different procedure with the power market, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Saving old used coal power plants. And what is it, Minister, with your word, because you said before Easter that by the end of April there would be an auction, and there isn't even a RES bill? When will the RES Act be and when will the auction be for renewable energy sources? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u319	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer all these questions of the Minister of Energy, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. [[Well done, sir, that is a very specific question. Minister, I want to hear the answer to the question of how much I will pay for the electricity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! To begin with, I would like to remind you that we are really doing what we have announced because the Prime Minister has announced... [[Voice from the room: It's true.]] [[Voice from the room: Tocka in totka.]] [[Voice from the room: raises.]] ...in 2018 in December, before the holidays, that electricity prices in Poland in 2018 will not increase. [[Voice from the Chamber: In 2019]] In December 2018, he announced that they would not increase in 2019. And we're doing this program. I would like to remind you that in the first part of the Act, because here questions were asked about how it looked, it is clear that 50% of the costs of the increase, possible increases in electricity prices compensate for the reduction of excise duty and the transitional charge. This is about PLN 4 billion per year, as I stressed at the committee meeting, which compensate for 50% of the costs of possible increases in electricity prices permanently. Members, these solutions have become permanent, so they will be in force in 2020 if we talk about it. On the other hand, the second part of the cost of increasing energy prices in 2019 is covered by unused emission rights that have already expired. At my request, the committee agreed to put them back on the market. For this reason we have funds - that is over PLN 5 billion - from which according to the regulations 20% So 1 billion PLN, we need to target environmental goals. So here we're creating a green investment fund, plus, in addition to those things that are included here, which is beyond stopping the rise in electricity prices. And, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised that your questions and your direction of discussion are presented in such a way that it is clear to you that you are terribly sorry that in Poland the current is not more expensive. You guys are so dissatisfied... [[Voice from the room: What?]] ...frustrated that this electricity doesn't cost. [[Applause]] [[But that's a lie.]] The data show clearly that although we are still working on it, we are still preparing solutions to secure it this year, 90% of final consumers are already not paying a higher price for energy than they paid in 2018. And there's a guarantee explicitly written in the Act, because the first point is inviolable, that in total for 2019 the recipients will not pay more than they paid on 30 June 2018. This bill... [[Invoices...]] ...gives due guarantees. If the Treasury doesn't pay off that money, I mean... [[Minister...]] ...that the necessary resources are being created. The requirement is clearly recorded here. It's legally due. So how can you question what's written in the law? You've been parliamentarians for so many years, ministers and so on. In the Act we change different ways of reaching this, but we do not change the record, which is at the beginning of the Act, that in 2019 the electricity prices will not be higher than they were 30 June 2018. This record was still intact today. If we say what's next in this bill that we're working on, we know that by the end of June these things will be intact. Now we're looking at how to solve this in the second half of the year. I think that, at the turn of August and September, payments for the first half of the year will begin, which will fully compensate for all that is overpaid in relation to 30 June 2018. If it so happens that someone changed the recipient, despite the statutory guarantees, announced the tender and did not ensure that the price was to be the same, he would nevertheless receive an appropriate compensation from the fund for the price difference. That money will be paid. I calm everyone down, it's all there. You are trying to undermine simple rules that are written in a simple way. You constantly question these rules as if you dreamed of making Poles worse. I want to guarantee that in 2019 Poles, companies will receive compensation for energy prices. [[And the government?]] In this way Polish companies, local governments, citizens, all energy consumers will save more than PLN 8 billion. Is it wrong that they will save over PLN 8 billion a year? Are you dissatisfied with the fact that Poles, Polish companies, local governments will save 8 billion PLN? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What will they save?]] [[Voice from the room: But when?]] In 2019 they will save 8 billion PLN. And you shout, "Why do you spend so much time on this?" You can't just snap a finger to save 8 billion zlotys. [[Minister, I think I see my invoices.]] Listen up, guys. Poles, my people, so to speak, converts who are discussing what we are doing in the Ministry right now, what the High House is doing together, we are all working together right now. I work as a Member and as a Minister. [[Voice from the room: They're glad there's room.]] Together we work to ensure that Poles do not take 8 billion PLN, so that Polish companies, local governments and citizens leave 8 billion PLN in their pockets. [[Voice from the hall: Who wants to take them away?]] We are still talking about the amount of PLN 8 billion. You keep acting like you want to take it away from Polish companies, take it away from Poles, not leave it to them, God forbid. What happened that they were still pushing it forward. What happened to the money? Look, listen, Poles, why are you acting like this instead of helping, instead of giving a hint, only with such a terrible dislike... [[Self-government. Six months and nothing.]] No, it's not. Show the Pole unless he changed the supplier to whom electricity was consumed. In the case of 15 million households, electricity has not used and will not be used up. [[Minister, come in. I'll show you the invoices I have.]] [[Voice from the room: Doesn't it get expensive in 2019?]] In 2019 electricity will not use. That's what we promised in December 2018 and that's what we're doing. We have the right resources for this. [[The voice from the room: But it's already gone.]] [[Voice from the room: And in 2020?]] I'm going back to the questions. All the questions are about us lying. No, we do everything. We've driven a dozen times, my co-workers have driven, we've talked in the European Commission about how to do it, how to adjust the law to make it work for us. There's a discussion all the time. We're all trying to make it work. We're doing it slowly. We actually have this situation right now, because it's been repeated in a lot of questions... [[To the ophthalmologist.]] ...that in the first and second half of the year energy did not exceed and will not exceed for citizens, those 15 million Poles, Polish families, households. [[Voice from the room: Elections, elections.]] There you go, they're every four years. Who defended you to act like this? It will not cost energy in the case of local governments. [[But she's already done it.]] They won't, they'll get a price difference from the fund. If someone was zealous enough to pay more immediately, he pays more. If he was necessarily changing the recipient, that's how he is. If he hadn't, he would have had such a price in accordance with the law in force. Energy will not be used in the case of hospitals, micro-entrepreneurs, which are in Poland almost 2 million, small entrepreneurs, which are in Poland almost 60,000. In the case of medium-sized and large, we have caused them to get full compensation for the first half of the year, and de minimis is enough for the second half of the year, because it is easily counted. Eurostat stated, as regards the cost of electricity in the European Union at the end of January 2019, that the average share of electricity costs in total costs for companies in the European Union was between 1 and 3%. And now let's see what this 2% average is. Makes all the money it takes to make it even. It turns out that for most of our companies it is enough de minimis to compensate for the rise in energy prices that will fit in here. We stated clearly during the committee's work that there are indeed 16 companies in Poland that have used de minimis aid for other purposes and will not be able to benefit from it. But they've been given the right resources, including financial resources, so they can handle it. 16 companies - once again I stress. So from this point of view, I would like to make it clear that the charge repeated today several times, that whatever we lied about... I want to make it right that we didn't lie. Therefore, Poles can feel safe. Poles can be sure that the price of electricity will remain as high as it is by the end of this year and that these 50% It's already taken care of for next year. For 2020 the amount of PLN 4 billion has already been settled in excise duty and transitional charge in order to compensate for the rise in energy prices. This is already assured, because it is permanent - decisions have been made. And for that time... We have plenty of time to figure out how to deal with this problem again. And with all kinds of serious problems, as you can see, we're dealing with a better society, and that's what we're doing quite effectively. I am therefore pleased that in this industry, which I am supervising, we can also cope in spite of difficult external circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u321	The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and some other laws (print No 3471). I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Michal Kurtyka, to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u322	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, I am pleased to present today a draft law amending the Act on greenhouse gas emissions trading and certain other laws. The drafting and submission of the bill, which we will be dealing with today, is due to the need to implement into the Polish legal order the provisions of the European Parliament and Council Directive of 14 December 2016 on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. We're talking about the so-called. NEC Directive. The NEC Directive has established obligations for Member States to reduce the emissions of anthropogenic pollutants into the atmosphere of the following compounds: sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia and fine dust, PM 2,5, and requires the preparation, adoption and implementation of national air pollution reduction plans, as well as monitoring and reporting of emissions to air. The proposed changes aim to enable the process of collecting data from industrial and energy companies which are covered by the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme, i.e. so-called. the ETS, where this is done for the purpose of determining emission allowances during the next trading period and this will take place under new rules in line with those introduced by the Directive of 14 March 2018. Until 30 September this year. Poland shall forward to the European Commission the list of installations together with the necessary data to determine the allocation of emission allowances for the reference period beginning in 2021. Solutions were also envisaged to bring Polish legislation on the greenhouse gas emissions trading system into line with changing socio-economic conditions. As you know, the previous novel of this law, this directive took place four years ago. After 4 years, a number of things have changed and changes are therefore needed to make the law more consistent with economic, administrative and legal realities. I will briefly allow myself to present to the High House the most important demands of the law we are discussing today. Firstly, the proposal introduces a number of provisions aimed at giving investors greater freedom to make strategic decisions. The proposed changes relate to the accounting of investment costs of the specific tasks included in the national investment plan. In particular, they rely on the possibility of balancing the allowances issued for other investment sentences, in the event that the investor ceases to carry out a task or does not achieve approved compliance indicators, i.e. parameters to demonstrate that there has been a reduction in emissions. In the event of an application for balancing the emission allowances issued, it has been decided to suspend the recovery procedure. Once the Minister for the Environment has given his consent, the procedure will be terminated as unobtrusive, allowing the ETS entities to retain the public aid received in the form of emission allowances issued. The draft introduces new rules for the fixing of emission allowances during the trading period beginning in 2021. The amendments made mainly to establish new procedural requirements for the allocation of emission allowances are intended to implement the provisions of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/331. One of the requirements introduced by this Regulation is the obligation for operators to draw up so-called installations. monitoring methodology plans to ensure that operators provide detailed and high quality information and data on installation characteristics and sub-installations, production processes that will be collected on the basis of a detailed description of the monitoring methodology and data sources and reflect actual information on the operation of the installation and its processes. The monitoring methodology plans will be approved by the competent authorities to authorise greenhouse gas emissions after obtaining the opinion of the National Centre for Balancing and Emissions Management, or KOBIZE. In addition, procedures for examining applications for emission allowances from the reserve have been simplified in order to reduce the administrative burden on the operator and to reduce the duration of the procedure. The legislator has provided for a procedure in which KOBIZE will contact the operators directly to address the deficiencies and errors identified in the applications, but it will be the Minister responsible for environmental matters who will be informed at each stage of the deficiencies identified in the application and of the extent of the necessary additions and amendments. The draft law imposes an additional task on KOBIZ to develop periodic forecasts of changes in activity for individual sectors of the economy, and the competent minister will establish assumptions for such a forecast for the sector concerned and provide the relevant information and data to KOBIZ. As regards the transposition of the NEC Directive, it should be noted that Poland's emission reduction commitments relate to two periods, which cover the years 2020 to 2029 and from 2030. These commitments have been defined respectively for both periods mentioned above, inter alia. for SO2 - by 59 and 70% , for NOx - by 30 and 39% That's right. The main tool to help achieve the indicated reductions in emissions of five pollutants is the National Air Pollution Reduction Programme, for which the basis is introduced precisely in the draft submitted by the High Commission. It is proposed that the national programme be adopted by the Council of Ministers in the form of a resolution at the request of the Minister responsible for Environment. The national programme is to be updated at least every 4 years or within 18 months of the transmission of the latest national emission balance or emission forecasts if, in accordance with the reported data, national emission reduction commitments are not met or are at risk of non-compliance. The draft law also identifies the correct emission reduction path, which is designated as a linear reduction in emissions of five substances from 2020 to 2030. Where the level of reduction of emissions of substances adopted in the national programme is not achieved or there is a risk that it will not be achieved, the Minister for the Environment is to inform the relevant ministers of the existence of such risks and competent ministers will then be required to develop proposals for additional measures and measures. In order to properly monitor the implementation of the actions identified in the national programme, competent ministers will be required to draw up and communicate to the Environment Minister information on the actions and measures contained in the national programme, and we assume that this information should be submitted by 31 January each year starting in 2020. A very important aspect of the regulated subject is agriculture, which is to a large extent responsible for emissions of ammonia into the atmosphere. It is worth remembering here that about 94% ammonia emissions come from agricultural activities. In order to reduce these emissions, new obligations and sanctions for non-compliance with them are introduced in the Fertilisation and Fertilisation Act. Therefore, the law also prohibits the use of ammonium carbonate fertilisers. A legislative delegation is also introduced for the Minister responsible for Agriculture to develop a code of good agricultural practice for reducing ammonia emissions. The Code will indicate best practices for nitrogen management, use, storage of fertilisers and animal housing rules that reduce ammonia emissions. The NEC Directive also introduced an obligation to monitor the impact of air pollution on ecosystems and to prepare reports to the European Commission and the European Environment Agency in this area. We therefore proposed to amend the Environmental Inspection Act accordingly. We predict that the bill will enter into force 14 days from the date of its announcement. This is an important act because its adoption will stabilise the legal situation of traders covered by the trading system and will create a legal basis for carrying out the tasks resulting from the law in the fourth subsequent trading period. The transposition of the NEC Directive will significantly improve air quality in Poland. Therefore, I ask you, High Izbo, to consider this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u323	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Czesław Sobierajski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u324	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme and certain other laws, Parliamentary printing No 3471. One of the main elements of the bill is the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 - the Minister spoke about it in detail - on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants in which obligations for Poland to reduce emissions were laid down. They relate to periods that cover the years from 2020 and 2030. The Minister mentioned it, and he deepened it, he said exactly what it was about. The draft law introduces provisions to help Poland reach the emission reduction levels of the five pollutants set out in the Directive and thus allow for significant improvements in air quality and reduce the impact of air pollution on the health of residents. The second objective of the draft law is to implement in part the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2018. The transposition of the Directive to the extent provided for by the Act aims to safeguard the most urgent regulatory needs due to the need to carry out the data collection process for the purpose of determining the range of emission allowances in the subsequent trading period 2021 and 2030, under the new rules introduced by Directive 2018/410. The project introduces changes to the calculation of investment costs of the specific tasks included in the national investment plan. A positive change will be the possibility of balancing issued emission allowances for other investment tasks in the event of failure to carry out any task or of the failure of the investor to achieve approved compliance indicators. Facilitates have been put in place for traders to provide explanations and to correct the application for allocation of emission allowances from the allowance reserve. In addition, the deadline for giving an opinion on the completeness of the data contained in the application and the correctness of the calculations carried out has been adapted to the reality for KOBIZE. Changes to the environmental fee scheme have been proposed: the amount of the allocation fee will continue to depend on the number of emission allowances concerned and the unit fee will have to be adopted for the year in which the allowances were issued and not for the year in which they were allocated. It's important. The project also provides for more responsibilities for the KoBIZ due to the increased importance of EU climate policy and air protection policy. His new task will be among others. monitoring the tasks in the area of air protection policy, which the Minister mentioned more widely, as well as the preparation of analyses, reviews and assessments of its functioning. Thanks to these solutions, the environment resort will be supported in the implementation of many air protection projects. In summary, this law is intended to implement the directive and at the same time to ensure that we live in better air and that businesses operate less, less burden. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u325	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the weather outside our building indicates that we should talk today about greenhouse gas emissions in particular. This is, of course, the title of some small joke, but as for the general principles of this law, it is generally the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club that always supports all solutions that are designed to improve air quality. We will also always support the implementation of EU directives into national law, because we are also represented there. For information, very good progress has been made in the European Union over the past 20 years in reducing anthropogenic emissions to air and improving air quality. Let me remind you that in the 1990s, this is such a longer period, the emissions of sulphur dioxide have been reduced by as much as 82%, and here we are talking about how this is going to change in our country. The Minister spoke here about Poland's emission reduction commitments. This applies to two periods, covering the years 2020 to 2029 and from 2030. These reduction commitments are set by reference to 2005 emissions. And so Poland has committed to reducing sulphur dioxide by 59% during this period. and then 70% later, nitric oxide - 30% and 39% , non-methane volatile organic compounds - by 25%, ammonia - by only 1% and only by 17% later, and finally what we, at least in Krakow, from which I come, is very disturbing, i.e. PM2.5 dust - by 16% in the first period and thereafter 58%. There's a lot of important stuff we're gonna be talking about at the committee meeting. It's very important, for example. that provision that, where the level of emission reduction is not achieved or risks cannot be realised in the National Air Pollution Reduction Programme, the Minister of Environment will indicate to specific ministers where this level may be exceeded, in which sectoral areas there is a risk of failure to do so, and then these ministers will be required to develop proposals for additional measures and measures. This is a very important element of this law, which refers to the monitoring system, because the reporting obligations of the Member States under the Directive concerning the transmission of national balances and forecasts of emissions in the spatial layout of the country to the European Commission and the European Environment Agency are an important part of the obligations of the Member States under the Directive. So that this law actually removes some interpretation doubts, adapts the different terms provided for in the above-mentioned law to the current realities of our country. An important element is the calling... The Centre for Balancing and Emissions Management has so far provided the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management with information on open accounts within 30 days of the operation. Here is such a nice change that now the planned change of information will be passed collectively until February 15th each year. We know that we have 30 September 2019 to send the list to the European Commission, which is why we need to introduce all the grounds for collecting and transmitting data in advance. A very good project is also this novelty which is introduced, i.e. the obligation for operators to develop and submit monitoring methodology plans to be approved by the competent authority. It hasn't happened so far, and I think it's a step in the right direction. We hope that the timing of all procedural requests will be reduced, where the national centre will be able to balance and manage missions directly... will contact the operators directly to shorten the waiting period. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I could talk a lot about the various provisions of this law here, but in general we will work on this law, we will support it. There is certainly a possibility that we will be making amendments to certain detailed provisions in this area. We are therefore looking forward to working on this project in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u327	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u328	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my opinion on printing no 3471, i.e. the draft law on amending the Act on the greenhouse gas emissions trading system and certain other laws. The PiS government has waited exceptionally long to implement the directive. The main objective of the project is to implement the current European legislation into Polish emissions trading law and to implement the provisions of Directive 2016/2284, which should take place by 1 July 2018. Since the Polish government has done nothing about it, the European Commission has made formal allegations. The NEC requires the preparation of a national air pollution reduction programme and obligations to reduce emissions to the atmosphere of anthropogenic pollutants, i.e. related to human activities such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia and fine dust. This, of course, involves high costs, but the projector does not present any, even estimates, amounts or sources of funding, please. The amount of electricity bills will depend on what is going on with the emissions trading system over a period of several years. That's gonna apply to every one of us paying for electricity. The European Emissions Trading System has been created so that the price of their units, corresponding to the release of 1 t of CO2 into the atmosphere, is increasing and countries are profitable in stimulating clean energy production. Free CO2 emission rights are expected to be less and less in the coming perspective, which will result in a higher price. As a result, the coal economy will be less profitable for Poland. The CO2 trading system was set up to protect the environment and reduce greenhouse gases. In Poland about 60% CO2 emissions generate energy. Departure from coal in this situation should be inevitable, which the PiS government does not speak of in fear of losing voters. However, carbon retention in energy is not only harmful to the environment, but also hampers the development of technology and competitiveness in the longer term. The proposal provides for a partial adaptation of the latest revision of the ETS Directive of March 2018, but not to the extent that it relates to the energy sector's derogation mechanisms. The Polish government should bear in mind that Directive 2018/410 introduces an innovative fund and a modernization fund, the latter being not supported by plants producing energy using solid fossil fuels, in particular coal. In 2017, the Polish government challenged the NEC Directive, claiming that the burden of reducing ammonia emissions would hit Polish farmers. However, Annex III of the Directive includes prevention of effects on small farms by introducing measures to reduce ammonia emissions and reduce emissions. We hope that this eventuality, its benefits, will be fully exploited after the introduction of this law. We will vote in favour of the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u329	Thank you, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposal, of course, partially implements the provisions of the Directive, which defines the scope and functioning of the emissions trading scheme, but also implements the NEC Directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain pollutants into our legal order, as the Minister has already mentioned. I will remind you that Poland had until 1 July 2018, i.e. we are already one year late, and in September ub. The European Commission has made formal allegations in the absence of notification of the transposition measures. Unfortunately, as usual, this implementation has been linked to the implementation of the Emissions Trading Directive, and the concern is that this rapid transposition does not include an article. Article 6 (6) (a) 5 of the NEC Directive on the obligation to properly consult the public and the competent authorities on this matter, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which may affect the correctness of this proposal. We will make amendments in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u331	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u332	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that we need to take care of the environment both for us and for the next generations, but with our heads. Therefore, Minister, I have a question as to whether forcing agricultural producers involved in animal production to increase the volume of structures used to store manure and extend the period from 3 months to 6 months involves reducing ammonia emissions. In my opinion, this is an increase in the costs associated not with efficient production, but with those that allow us to produce at all. I believe that a further solution would be to stop any animal production using straw, manure, related to emissions, not manure, which naturally produces goats and does not allow them to do so in the rubbish and tanks themselves. We can sow corn in which [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will definitely fit with the storage period in 3 months. In my opinion, there is no reduction in emissions if larger buildings are used, and the task of Poland should be to negotiate this issue with the European Union. Sir, I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u333	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'd like to ask you about financial matters. Please tell us what the financial consequences of the entry into force of this law will be. What proceeds from the sale of allowances will be achieved and how are they achieved to the annual receipts so far achieved? What will be the annual receipts under this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u335	Thank you very much. And one last question. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u336	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This topic has already been discussed, but we need to ask about the price of energy, because it seems that Poland, going hard towards coal, in short, misses the chance to modernise its entire production system, power generation. And the question is: How will the adoption of these regulations and the persistence of coal, the import of increasing quantities of coal from Russia - unprecedented before - affect energy prices? How much more will consumers pay? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u337	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Minister Michael Kurtyka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u338	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for speaking on behalf of the clubs and asking questions. This is a problem where, I think, we all agree that air should be protected, that the pacta sunt servanda and that the transposition of this directive should take place, even though, in relation to Mrs Czernow's question about costs... [[It's not cost, it's revenue.]] ...we also had a number of doubts about this and Poland supported Bulgaria's request to the European Court of Justice to implement this directive. The Court rejected our proposal on 19 March 2019 and there is therefore no question of continuing to discuss whether or not to implement it, but how we are to implement it. And here is also the answer to the questions asked by your Members, Mrs Lieder, as well as Mrs Lenartowicz, on the deadline for implementing this law. It should be noted that we are in a legal situation that is subject to change also on the part of the European Commission. Delegated Regulations, which defined how implementation would take place, were published after the formal deadline by which Member States were obliged to transpose the Directive. Since the Delegated Regulation on Statistics appeared in November and the subsequent regulation on how this Directive was implemented only in December 2018, Mrs, we have therefore received additional information both in November and in December, as well as in March on the way and extent of transposition of this Directive into the Polish legal system. Thanks to this, we are working as soon as possible today on the draft law that implements this directive. As regards the work of the Ministry of the Environment and my services, Poland, in accordance with the provisions of this directive, although we have not yet been subject to the law transposing the directive, has already prepared a It was transmitted to the European Commission in April 2019 in accordance with the objectives, in accordance with the provisions of the Directive itself. It's not here. there is also no statement of any formal shortcomings on the part of Poland, which Mrs Lenartowicz was gracious to ask. We have had consultations resulting from administrative work and the exchange of information with the European Commission as part of the EU Pilot query. This, on the other hand, is in no way equivalent to a formal statement of non-implementation. As regards Mr Zbigniew Ajchler's question on the concrete solutions put in place for agriculture, I would like to remind you that this document is being constructed under the auspices of the Minister for the Environment, while sector-specific contributions are prepared by the relevant ministers. In this case, the minister responsible is the Minister of Agriculture, who proposed that this action, of which you were graciously speaking, should take place in a perspective of not 4 but 12 hours. We have a longer period there and it is good practice, not applicable law. So we have here at this stage the opportunity to act on behalf of farmers. As far as implementation costs are concerned, at this stage we predicted the amount of PLN 8 million for the sectoral programmes in question, which are to be prepared by KOBIZE on the basis of contributions from individual ministries. There are no additional charges, there are no administrative burdens that this law would generate. So much for my answers. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u339	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting... [[Your Marshal, can you ad vocem?]] No, you can't ad vocem. I'm sorry, there's no formula. You can at most correct mode, but ad vocem cannot. Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau... [[That's a corrigendum. May I?]] But I have already closed the discussion, sir. I'm sorry. Next time. You have to sign up early or I'll be happy to give the floor. ...poses that the Sejm should refer the Government's draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry to amend the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and certain other laws, as contained in print No 3471, to the Commission for the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 2 July 2019. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the monitoring system of road and rail freight transport and some other laws (print No 3474). State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Mr Piotr Walczak will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u340	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending the law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws. This project introduces comprehensive legal regulations for the marketing of fuel oil and diesel fuel for fuel purposes and other liquid fuel fuels. The primary objective of the proposed regulation will be to reduce the administrative burden on operators of these excise products so far. Currently, operators selling fuel oil are required to collect paper declarations from the purchaser on the use of this oil for fuel purposes and then to draw up and forward monthly statements to the competent head of the tax office. According to the data available in 2018, this was the case for over 1200 entrepreneurs. These entities also collected almost 1.1 million paper statements in 2017 and 2018. In the peak months of the heating period, these operators receive 70 000. statements. The original statements should be kept by the trader for a period of 5 years from the end of the calendar year in which they were drawn up and made available for inspection. The determination of whether the fuel oil has been used for its intended purpose requires an analysis of the statements on the use of these products and the carrying out of tax checks or ex post customs-subsistence checks. These solutions were mainly based on paper documents, which is not in line with the expectations of controlled entrepreneurs. The process of both collecting and storing paper statements is time-consuming, cumbersome and, as experience points out, also generates many other problems. It follows from the data held for the years 2012 and 2014 that around 100,000 were verified annually in the framework of tax controls and tax audits. statements, of which more than 30% had formal errors. This, in turn, gave rise to the obligation to carry out further control activities, involving forces both on the part of the entrepreneur and the authorities. Replacing paper declarations by electronic declarations, as foreseen by the draft law, will lead to the elimination of the burdensome administrative obligations currently imposed on businesses by the collection and storage of paper declarations on the use of fuel fuels. On the administrative side, however, it will eliminate time- and labour-intensive verification of such documents and allow for a more efficient use of the personnel available. This law computerizes the process of submitting and storing statements about the use of fuel fuels, which is another step in building digital Poland and moving away from traditional formalities, i.e. paper. This is due to the fact that the Act assumes a fuller use of information systems already available to the National Tax Administration. The solutions contained in the proposal presented in the High House will also help to seal the tax system for the marketing of these products. The draft law constitutes a further step in the process of sealing the tax system, as it eliminates the existing risk of irregularities in the fuel sector which benefit from a reduced rate of excise duty and, having characteristics similar to or identical to those of motor fuels, were used for propulsion purposes and therefore not intended to be used. There is a risk of an increase in the trend towards irregularities in the fuel sector. This brings concrete losses to the state budget. Exposed in 2012 and 2014 losses only in excise duties amounted to about PLN 400 million. At this point, I would like to point out that the use of fuel fuels for propulsion purposes has not been entirely inhibited. Last month, the National Tax Administration, in cooperation with the Central Police Investigation Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office, carried out a spectacular action on irregularities in the circulation of fuel oil. The Polish-German criminal group brought fuel oil from Germany to Poland to sell it as motor fuel. As it turns out, the organisation of 6 000 has been abandoned since 2014. illegal transport. In this case only the losses of the State Treasury are estimated at over PLN 100 million. It is therefore also justified to take legislative action, which is reflected in the draft law, in the context of the protection of the vital interests of the State Treasury. At the same time, it is worth noting that, for the purposes of sealing the turnover of fuel fuels, the Act uses existing mechanisms, i.e. the arrangements contained in the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport, consisting of monitoring under the electronic system of carriage of goods, with which there is a risk of fraud. Given that these solutions have in practice brought tangible benefits, the proposed Act also decided to include the monitoring system in its entirety in fuel oil trade, with the exception of the retail trade in fuel oils. This exception concerns sales at points of trade, e.g. construction centres, fuel for oil furnaces offered in packaging prepared for retail sale. Such sales will be linked to the obligation to record them in the relevant register, the copy of which will be sent electronically to the competent tax office. The project assumes that all participants in the fuel market will be required to register once for this purpose. This also applies to individuals who heat their homes with this kind of energy medium. In order to simplify registration, it is possible to perform this activity from behind the desk. Anyone who has access to the computer and the Internet will be able to register using the electronic form provided. For this purpose, from 14 August 2019 onwards, this form will be made available on two portals: the PUESC portal and the tax portal. The entire registration operation without leaving the house should take no more than a few minutes. In addition, a transitional period is foreseen for all until 31 March 2020 in which paper declarations on the use of fuel fuels may be made, provided that the oil user fails to register for various reasons. The registration of all operators in the fuel market is necessary to ensure the integrity of the system and the safety of trade in those products. The possibility for tax authorities to verify the data contained in simplified registrations will reduce the risk on the part of the operator supplying fuel. The supply of fuel to all customers will be reported to the transport and marketing monitoring system. Such a solution will seal the circle of sellers and buyers of fuel fuels, and the use of an electronic transport monitoring system will allow for the ongoing analysis of supply chain and fuel fuel consumption sites. Thanks to existing solutions it will be possible to monitor in real time the route of transport and react quickly, e.g. in cases where the goods are delivered to a place other than that resulting from the declaration of carriage. Thus, the risk of irregularities will be virtually eliminated and the fuel fuel trading system will actually be sealed. The use of IT tools will improve the surveillance process and control of the correct use of fuel fuels. The activities of the National Tax Administration bodies will be able to be carried out using electronic systems, while limiting reporting by entrepreneurs. The analytical capacity of national tax authorities will be increased, e.g. as regards the determination of the actual consumption of fuel oil purchased at a certain reduced rate of excise duty. At present, as has been said, this is very inefficient on the part of the national tax authorities, and because of the documentation of the use of oil in paper form, it also overly engages entrepreneurs, which is an undesirable phenomenon. High Izbo! Bottom line. The proposed bill comprehensively regulates the trading of fuel fuels, including the obligations of the participants in this trading. It introduces solutions based on an IT environment, meeting entrepreneurs' expectations and implementing them by reducing the current administrative burden. This project should also be seen as a continuation of the measures sealing the tax system in Poland, which will ultimately protect businesses from unfair competition and, by means of the proposed regulations, will in fact shift the burden of verifying the customers of fuel fuels to the National Tax Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u341	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylwester Khrushch will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government draft law amending the Law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road and rail and certain other laws, print No 3474. The proposed law aims to establish comprehensive legislation to seal the tax system for fuel oil and diesel trading intended for heating purposes, and other liquid fuel fuels, as well as to reduce administrative regulation for oil traders. Today, preventive action is needed, which aims to reduce the observed bad phenomena and to maintain the growth achieved so far in revenues from this industry. The proposed solutions also take into account the interest of operators in fuel oils and focus on eliminating the current burdensome administrative obligations. The use of IT tools will allow for the re-bureaucratisation of existing procedures and the real sealing of fuel oil trading, while increasing the analytical capacity of national tax authorities. To date, efforts to seal the tax system have significantly reduced, from the point of view of the size of the grey zone, the problem of trading in motor fuels without paying taxes on goods and services and excise duties. However, there is a real risk of increasing the risk and magnitude of irregularities in the area of fuel oils. This is indicated by data from previous years, disclosed by the customs office in 2012 and 2014, where the reduction in excise duty alone amounted to about PLN 400 million. The proposed law makes the following assumptions: the trading of fuel oils, including those carried out without physical displacement, will be subject to monitoring within the electronic system processing data on the transport of goods and on the trading of fuel oils, as referred to in the Transport Monitoring System Act. There is already an obligation to monitor the transport of fuel oils if they are carried in excess of 500 l. The solution introduced is therefore only an extension of the existing facts and most entrepreneurs know these regulations. However, for natural persons not engaged in economic activities which have not so far been covered by these arrangements, their entry into force, as I stress, will not entail an additional obligation to report in the transport and marketing monitoring system, as this obligation will rest on the operators who ship fuel oil. Those receiving fuel oil and those selling in the course of their business, in addition to the suspension of excise duty on fuel oils, will be subject to registration. The introduction of this obligation is also necessary to ensure the leakage of fuel oil. The use of IT solutions for monitoring the circulation of fuel oils must lead to a reduction of existing and burdensome administrative obligations for entrepreneurs, as already mentioned by my esteemed previous speaker. The proposed solutions are expected to translate into simplification of surveillance processes and control over the correct use of fuel oil. The activities of the control authorities will be able to be carried out using electronic systems, while reducing the reporting by entrepreneurs. This also increases the analytical capacity of national tax authorities. Given that the overarching objective of the regulation is to protect the financial interests of our country, they are justified and obligations imposed on those involved in this process should be considered proportionate. The project will in no way affect the economic and social situation of Poles. The revision will have little effect on increasing the administrative burden associated with the one-off registration obligation. The draft law shall not be submitted to the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of further proceding [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a good bill. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u343	Thank you. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykla to present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u344	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws, print No 3474. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the basic purpose of the proposed law is to seal the tax system for fuel oil and diesel for fuel and other liquid fuel fuels which, due to their use for fuel purposes, have been subject to a reduced excise duty. An important objective of the Act is also to reduce the administrative burden for oil traders by eliminating the obligation to obtain paper statements from purchasers and store them for a period of 5 years for the purpose of verifying compliance with the conditions for applying a reduced rate for these products. The paper statements will therefore be replaced by an electronic registration system for recipients and an electronic confirmation of receipt and destination for fuel purposes, as the Minister has said in detail. The turnover of fuel oils, including those carried out without physical displacement, will be monitored by an electronic system processing data on the transport of goods and the trading of fuel oils as referred to in the Transport Monitoring System Act. Operators using fuel oils, including those physically not engaged in business activities, will be required to register as an oil-using operator, indicating the location of the heating equipment and subsequently confirming receipt of delivered fuel oils, which will replace the previous paper confirmation. Operators using fuel oil and carrying out sales in the course of their business activities outside the procedure of suspension of excise duty on fuel oils will be subject to registration. With regard to the placing on the market of fuel oils, the transport and marketing monitoring system with means of transport equipped with a GPS system which enables the monitoring of the route, indicating the place of delivery, eliminates the risk of irregularities, including in particular the delivery of the goods to another place. The use of IT tools is intended to facilitate the day-to-day control of the turnover of fuel oil subject to reduced rates, reducing the scale of irregularities, and to reduce the number of disputes arising between traders and tax authorities against illegible or incorrect paper declarations. The advantages of these solutions are visible. New obligations for both registration and acknowledgement of receipt may be difficult for those physically not engaged in business. Any facilitations addressed to them will result in burdens for entrepreneurs. There is a threat to the safety of existing customers who, for various reasons, will not be able to register, because it will not be possible to supply oil at a reduced rate for operators not registered in the system. The question arises as to whether the inclusion of specific obligations also for small-scale trading remains proportionate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u345	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki to present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u346	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 an opinion on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain laws, print No 3474. This project adds a definition of fuel fuel trading, understood as the sale of fuel oils in the so-called. Place. The creation of electronic documentation circulation in the field of fuel oil trading and the electronic transport register of SENT goods. These include oil users and operators selling in the course of their business activities outside the procedure of suspension of excise duty on fuel oils. An earlier deadline was also provided for simplifications, registrations to the tax office. According to the developer, the aim of the new legislation is among others. the combination of solutions from two laws: the law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport, the electronic transport register for SENT goods, and the excise tax law, it concerns the submission of paper declarations. There is currently an electronic register containing data on the transport of fuel oils in the case of transport of cargo of more than 500 litres. This register will be expanded to include data on the use of fuel oils for heating purposes. In this way, the system of submitting paper statements confirming the use of fuel oil for excise duty-free purposes to the seller will be abolished. Because there is a higher excise duty on diesel, or 1196 PLN for 1 thousand l, and for fuel oil - 232 PLN for 1 thousand. l, dishonest buyers instead of heating purposes used these oils improperly for their purpose, e.g. for filling cars, tractors and agricultural machinery. In summary, Kukiz15 will support the draft law amending the law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u347	Thank you. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski to present his position on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u348	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats is in favour of continuing the legislative work on this government project. We believe that it is appropriate to clarify certain areas, to include them in the legal framework, so as to eliminate, as the legislator assures, these opportunities and areas where the revenue of the State Treasury may be reduced. Nevertheless, it is as if an amendment to the recently adopted law on the monitoring system for road and rail transport, in which this thread has been extended, to the area where we are talking about the registration of those who will also buy fuel oil for heating purposes. I think that here my previous speakers have already discussed the records of this project on many sides and on many possibilities. Besides, the Minister also spoke very extensively about this. However, I am considering, Minister, whether these issues relating to the sale of small quantities will also require such an approach and commitment, the launch of this whole procedure and recording machine as in the case of those quantities that are actually allocated not for the purposes of others, as we say, and for the purpose of securing the issues of everyday life. Nevertheless, as I said at the beginning, we are in favour of continuing our work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u349	Thank you very much. The position on behalf of the Modern Club will be presented by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u350	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club Modern about the government draft law amending the law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and some other laws. High Izbo! This is another amendment of this law. Let me remind you that in the first edition this law included monitoring only the carriage of goods by road. Later, as a result of the amendment, there was the monitoring of rail transport and the monitoring of goods other than initially assumed. And, of course, when it comes to creating conditions for equal competition, which also means being subject to the same tax rules by different economic operators, it must be agreed here that it is the systematic introduction of solutions that improve competitiveness, improve in some way the functioning, the legal environment in which operators operate, of course, that is a good direction. In principle, as regards this call for a level playing field also by sealing and creating, I would say, solutions that prevent cheating, very simply to some economic operators, should be agreed that such measures are desirable and necessary as much as possible. Of course, we differ in our assessment in terms of the model of functioning, for example. In our view, taxes should be reduced. As a result, this would create a natural incentive not to avoid tax, because it would not be, I would say, incentives from the point of view of the size of the savings that can be obtained. But apparently the government has come to the conclusion that this systematic increase in taxes is in the interest of the government, it is necessary that later these collected taxes, drawn out of the pockets of Poles, be distributed in such a way that it is possible to create various kinds of political offers before the elections. Here we will certainly not accept this, because nothing does so well to stimulate the economy, to inspire entrepreneurship, as just low and simple taxes. And instead of introducing complicated tax systems, Minister, and then creating further laws that seal these complicated tax systems, and introducing further solutions that are, as it were, creating further barriers, further obstacles, it really seems that the time has come, Minister, in which you should sit down and think about how these taxes should simplify and reduce so that there is no temptation to circumvent this. Later we would not have to present such laws, and the Sejm would not have had to accept them if all this had been arranged from start to finish, as it should have been. Are these solutions proportionate? However, I have doubts about some of the burdens that are being imposed. Are you sure that someone buys a 31-pound pack of oil, that's that level, that moment when complex IT systems should be involved in finding each such customer, knowing him by name and receiving a statement from him? It seems that this issue is probably treated too, I would say, disproportionately. And here, during the discussion at the committee meeting, we will certainly address the Minister and we will try to get an explanation from him. With regard to these further burdens on entrepreneurs, the burden on individuals, Minister, in the explanatory memorandum and in the impact assessment of the regulation, you claim - this is in the tables - that this does not increase the number of procedures, the number of documents, does not extend the time to settle the case. But to tell you the truth, one part of the OSR denies what's in the other part of the OSR. And so on. in point 8, we have a change of regulatory burden. The State claims that the government does not increase the number of documents, procedures or the length of time, and in turn in point 7, in non-cash terms, where there is information about this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how this will affect the business sector, there is an indication that this impact will, however, be. So that we will certainly discuss this during the committee meeting. I ask the Minister to prepare himself for this so that all our doubts can be clarified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u351	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Law and Justice. Here you go, first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm directing a question to the Minister. Minister, do we have any estimate of the budget revenue we're hoping for if we put all these procedures in place? How can we estimate that? What's the gray area like? Is she similar in size to the budget revenue to what we've been doing in our previous movements? So there is a specific question: What is the amount of resources that we can accumulate by sealing this system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u353	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u354	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In connection with the amendment of the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and some other laws, I have a question: What was the previous monitoring? Is the government taking up this problem now, after the VAT scandal, in order to avoid further losses in our national economy? Are there calculations because I hear a lot of money here, how much could our economy lose to dishonest buyers? In this case, they earned dishonest buyers who made about 1,000 dollars on this rack. zł, exactly 964 zł. I would also add that the owners of cars, tractors, machines were also losing on this, because they were sold worse oil and they were paying the cost of repairing the failures of their machines and equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u355	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The reasons for the bill are financial. These financial consequences are roughly such that the annual revenues to the sealing budget will amount to PLN 200 million each year. My question is, isn't there an underestimation here? After all, it is quite unlikely that over a period of 10 years there will be identical revenue to the budget. Are these assumptions right? That's one thing. Secondly, will this bill not affect the price of fuel oil? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u357	Thank you. And I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski to ask another question, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is natural that we all strive to seal the tax system, but we should do everything in moderation, while maintaining some proportionality. Does the inclusion of specific obligations of small-scale trading remain proportionate or not in your view? Are you, possibly, prepared to lean on this subject, the problem that all the speakers in the committee are actually addressing today, or is it so rigid and you do not want to go away from it? After all, a small customer, a smaller entrepreneur may have a lower burden, perhaps not only in terms of fuel but also in other areas of the economy. This is, it applies, and in this case it would also be appropriate to take these burdens in a proportionate manner. Now, you're putting it in some part of it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it must be clearly indicated, but is it the right proportion or not? If the Minister had been kind enough to say something about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u359	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will ask the last question at this point in the meeting of the Sejm. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u360	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is one topic that I was unable to raise during the speech in which I was discussing the position of the club, and this matter is extremely important. Well, the bill, on the changes we're trying to make today, has become such a machine for making money. We warned against this during the process of both the original version of the bill and later amendments, that unfortunately these entities, the most affected entities, will be transport companies. Minister! I must say, this is an outrageous practice your resort tolerates. The point is that the penalties imposed on transport undertakings are in no way dependent on how this penalty affects the financial situation of the trader. I remember the discussions that took place during committee meetings, and then you declared that you would not kill Polish transport companies. And what did it turn out to be? ♪ That they're here tonight ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] judgments of the court which state explicitly that the authorities you are directing do not take into account the condition of the trader and impose the highest penalties from the march. Minister! I want to ask you, do you really want, like our friends from other countries of the European Union, our transport companies and the whole transport industry just to eliminate them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u361	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Piotr Walczak, will answer this question and the previous questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u362	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. Now, speaking of the first question about the influence that this bill will bring, I would stress... At least, one more time. Ladies and gentlemen, influence is actually less important. Healthy competition in the fuel market is more important. We estimate these influences very low, very carefully. They are likely to be larger, but using very careful methodologies, we calculated the amount of PLN 200 million per year by analysing how this will affect the state budget. This is also an immediate answer to the third question: PLN 200 million per year, or PLN 2 billion per 10-year scale, as is stated in the OSR. So this amount is definitely higher. When it comes to the question of how the rotation of fuel oils into the grey zone in general, that is the problem. Why do we today come to the High House, to the ladies and gentlemen of the House with this bill? This is because the VAT sealing system has changed the Modus operandi. In the past, the problem of fuel oils, which were converted into diesel, was quite a serious problem. However, later organised crime changed to simpler forms of crime, which resulted in greater profitability, such as fuel, petrol, diesel, which were imported under intra-Community acquisitions. The sealing of the VAT system resulted in the return of the old modus operandi, i.e. the conversion of fuel oil to diesel. It started coming back, which is why today we are with this project in the High House. How much is that thinner? On one tanker, a small autocysterically organized crime group earns about 30,000. zł. As you have obviously said, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very profitable activity, which is mastered, and I stress, as in the case of VAT fraud, organised crime. That's not the problem of people who want to make money. In fact, it's in the hands of organized crime. When describing the bill, I took the liberty of setting an example. Last implementation of the last month of the National Tax Administration together with CBŚP. The losses amounted to almost PLN 100 million. As you can see, the problem is getting worse. As regards the question concerning these small quantities, this was raised by the honourable High House. Of course, this is a very important question. We have studied this for a very long time, working primarily with entrepreneurs, both small and large, with the two largest associations. One fuel association brings together large distributors, the other small ones. We've had conversations for a very long time. This is the result of these discussions. In fact, there is no problem with deliveries for individuals, as you mentioned, who want to existentially purchase fuel oil, because it is a carrier, firstly, very expensive, and secondly, it is not worth transporting this carrier in small packages. In fact, much larger quantities are profitable. 30 kg is for use, so to speak, more recreational. It's about some fireplaces, some kind of device. Therefore, we actually assumed that this is the level that does not cause the burden. Most importantly, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no burden on small businesses, because small businesses are the 1,200 entities I have talked about, and they will not do anything. They'll only confirm. If they don't want to do it with a computer, they can even do it. It's by hand. The driver will confirm the delivery of this product by means of such a card. As regards the issues concerning both our entrepreneurs and the customers of fuel oils, the burden is definitely decreasing. Imagine the great problems of today on a natural person or on our small entrepreneurs, who each time have to make a very complicated statement in spite of appearances. This time they'll only register once, they won't have to register anymore. That's the basic difference. From the point of view of the burden on entrepreneurs, this is far more favourable for both entrepreneurs and individuals. This is what you have been talking about, ladies and gentlemen. There will be no problems concerning tax proceedings, criminal proceedings, problems that will go into our justice system. The system is simple. That's it. The Member spoke of this. This system is simple. We were talking about a simple system, and it seems that this system is fulfilling it. Taking part in many scientific conferences, I often heard how to seal the fuel oil system. In fact, there are only two ideas in the world: equalizing rates with the return system, which is very complicated, expensive and, above all, socially hitting these groups, small entrepreneurs who use this energy carrier. And that is why we have adopted, we think, a really very beneficial solution from every point of view: a natural person, a buyer, a small entrepreneur, a large entrepreneur, finally a state budget and companies operating in this market. This is, ladies and gentlemen, also one of the demands of these companies. They want to operate equally on the market, like for example. Ethylin trading companies today. Ladies and gentlemen, the last question was about hitting transport companies. Let me once again quote in this discussion the latest figures on the percentage of fines against applications: 0.02%. [[Too much.]] I don't know if it's too much, sir. I think it's really a beam. I also stress once again: I am not saying that such a case was not. It never occurred to me that any company fell through the SENT system because it had some serious fiscal problems. After all, for these reasons, we have reduced the penalty to 2,000. zł, coming up against the demands of transport companies. That is why I will allow myself absolutely not to agree that these penalties are drastic. These penalties, as I have already said many times before the High House, with a monitoring system for road and rail transport, were estimated in terms of the ineffectiveness of the implementation of activities in the case of organised crime, which are simply included in the costs of the penalty. These penalties are simply shaped at the level of profit that an entrepreneur would achieve by transporting illegal fuel, in this particular case of fuel oil. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u363	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These solutions are based on existing regulations of our neighbour - Slovakia. According to statistics, 123 simple share companies have been registered in Slovakia for 2 years. In comparison, 406 public limited liability companies were registered during the same period, which means that one in five public limited liability companies is a simple public limited liability company. Therefore, I ask you to answer whether the Ministry has a preliminary estimate of what percentage of the companies currently set up could include new simple equity companies. In addition, PSA will also be able to make binding decisions via video conferencing or e-mail. I ask for an answer on how this law provides protection as regards decisions taken in such a form and adverse actions against other shareholders.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u365	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on the monitoring of road and rail freight transport systems and certain other laws contained in print No 3474 to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the bankruptcy law and some other laws (print No 3480). Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marcin Warchoł will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u366	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Falling into a difficult or irrecoverable debt should not push anyone to the social margin, should not take away everything overnight. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice has prepared groundbreaking solutions to secure the exit from debt and restore normal life without ever fearing the bailiff. Today, Poles who overestimated their financial opportunities will lose their jobs, which will be affected by illness or an unfortunate random event and who are unable to pay their debts, are most often subject to chamber executions. They lose their house, their apartment, practically all their wages. The more they earn, the more the bailiff takes away from them, and the debt that grows over the years is still impossible to repay. As a result of this situation, many people are being pushed into the grey zone. They are exposed to depression or family problems. Creditors can't recover their debts anyway, because the last proverbial shirt has already been taken off the debtors. The scale of the problem is shown by numbers: it is estimated that more than 2 million Poles cannot cope with overdue debts, which totals almost PLN 50 billion. The mechanism that secures this situation is consumer bankruptcy. This mechanism benefits both the debtor and the creditor. Thanks to it you can comprehensively solve the debt problem, get a chance to start again and, as far as possible, repay creditors. At present, however, the courts reject almost half of applications for consumer bankruptcy. It is estimated that 6552 consumer bankruptcy was declared in 2018, with more than 12 000 requests for such bankruptcy being filed. We see progress because in 2014 only 31 bankruptcies were recorded with 300 applications. The first change is that it is sufficient to declare bankruptcy that the debtor is insolvent without examining the reasons for insolvency when opening insolvency proceedings. This is a very important change because it takes into account any type of debt that is often caused by recklessness, overestimation of its financial capacity, illness or other foreseeable circumstances that may result in a loss of liquidity. The reasons for insolvency will, of course, be taken into account, but only at the stage of the repayment plan. We assume two repayment plans: a standard up to 3 years and up to 7 years in the event of a reckless debt being incurred, the debtor was somehow guilty. Of course, we rule out all cases of gross negligence or situations where someone deliberately incurs debts so as not to pay them back later, and when someone commits fraud. Such extreme situations will be eliminated from this system. We introduce successful solutions e.g. in the UK, where almost 100,000 are announced. consumer bankruptcy per year. There are about 130 thousand people in the similar population in Canada. Bankruptcy proceedings per year, in Germany about 80,000, while in France almost 200,000 cases are conducted annually. This shows that the scale of using this type of mechanism in Western Europe is incomparably greater than what we see in our country. Hence, the solutions we are proposing are based on the observation of the experience of other countries. The second very important change is the retribution of this procedure. Today, these proceedings last an average of 2 years. Consumers often complain that proceedings are conducted on a chronic basis. The average duration of proceedings is 2 years and almost 40% of cases are cases lasting more than 6 months. By handing insolvency proceedings over to the restructuring advisors, we want to prevent this. The court will decide to open insolvency proceedings and then refer the case to the judge, not the Commissioner, but the restructuring advisor. The court will only intervene in the case of a complaint. I would also like to draw attention to a very important point, namely the possibility of speeding up the procedure by the fact that proceedings lasting more than 6 months will be included in the repayment plan period. The repayment plan for proceedings lasting more than 6 months will therefore be shorter. This is another very important guarantee for people seeking consumer bankruptcy. It will simply make these actions quicker. The third very important change we are proposing is to introduce the possibility of an agreement before bankruptcy. In the UK there are about 50,000. That kind of deal at 11,000. classic consumer bankruptcy. The solution is of great interest, especially among people from the so-called. the middle class whose earnings allow them to reach an agreement with creditors without costly and long-term insolvency proceedings. This mechanism is also envisaged. For those in a very difficult life situation, affected by chronic illness, we provide for termination of proceedings. In turn for people who are able to get straight, but not at the moment - it can be e.g. young people after graduating, who recklessly borrowed a few loans, but may be able to repay them in the future - we predict so-called. conditional redemption lasting 5 years. There is a period that allows the debtor to find a job, get a job opportunity. That way he can start a repayment plan. So that the possibility for debtors to enter into agreements with creditors, the failure of the court to examine the debtor's culpability when opening insolvency proceedings, the removal from the court's administration of the simplest cases of consumer bankruptcy, which will significantly speed up proceedings, the remission of liabilities without a repayment plan, the conditional remission - are solutions that will certainly help to improve the situation of debtors, people who have often not fallen into debt spirals and then are sentenced to the grey zone. We want these opportunities to be available to a larger group of citizens. It is estimated that there may be up to 30,000 a year. bankruptcy proceedings. It is possible to judge, possible to settle in mode, through the so-called. restructuring advisors. I would like to remind you that the bill has already been passed. There is a solution providing for supervision by the Minister of Justice of the restructuring work which complements this system. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I remain convinced that the proposed legal arrangements will make it possible to significantly improve insolvency procedures, long-term procedures, which should allow a faster start for those who are trapped in debt often without their fault and fear entering a cumbersome, unfriendly procedure for the defendant while maintaining the legitimate interests of creditors. I ask the High House to support this project. The government is hoping for a quick process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u367	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to perform. You're welcome. There's no envoy. In that case, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club on the government draft law amending bankruptcy law and some other laws, print No 3480. The Government's draft law amending the bankruptcy law and certain other laws aims at simplifying the insolvency procedure for consumer insolvency and thus increasing the number of insolvency proceedings. The law on consumer bankruptcy introduced by the Government by the Civic Platform - PSL on 1 January 2015 significantly changed the legal situation of insolvent natural persons not engaged in business activities. New, better conditions have been created for declaring consumer bankruptcy, resulting in a rapid increase in the number of applications in this case. In 2015, 5616 applications for consumer bankruptcy were received by the courts, which represented almost a 20-fold increase compared to 2014. When a year later, i.e. On 1 January 2016, the subject of consumer bankruptcy was significantly extended to former entrepreneurs during the year since the removal from the relevant register or cessation of business activity, the increase in the impact of applications was almost avalanche. As a result of this regulation, there has been a considerable burden on the courts and an extension of the time taken to deal with cases. In the course of the bankruptcy procedure against former entrepreneurs, it is necessary for the court to examine the obligations arising from the Article. 491 Bankruptcy rights, establishing lists of claims, resolving problems with bankruptcy and other matters directly affecting the extension of proceedings. This proposal proposes a number of simplifications in the procedure, including, inter alia,: introducing the possibility of declaring bankruptcy of a non-economic person in a simplified procedure without the appointment of a judge of the Commissioner, introducing the possibility for debtors to enter into agreements with creditors with a limited participation of courts under the direction of a licensed restructuring adviser, giving up the need for a court to examine at the stage of declaring the insolvency of the debtor in order to bring or deepen the debt situation, allowing the debtor not to sell quickly all the assets subject to execution in a prepared liquidation procedure, which will increase the flexibility available to the debtor of the option of rapid exit from insolvency, reporting claims directly to the syndicated restructuring adviser, and not, as is currently the case, to the court, and establishing that the waiver of liabilities without a repayment plan will be conditional, which is intended to prevent too rash remission of liabilities. These are the basic directions for changes to the bill. The draft law also amends six other laws related to the consumer bankruptcy procedure. To sum up, the proposed solutions aim to simplify the consumer insolvency procedure, which is to increase the number of cases under consideration and facilitate the situation of debtors who are in very difficult situations. However, the bill requires a broad analysis and discussion. Therefore, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club is in favour of sending the project to further legislative work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u369	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, to present my position on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u370	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have to admit, I'm impressed, I'm impressed. This is a good bill, a good bill. At the outset, I would like to say that I have the honour of presenting the position of the Kukiz club15 on the government draft law amending the bankruptcy law and certain other laws. At the first reading stage, I don't want to focus on the details. I think it is worth first of all telling citizens what consumer bankruptcy is. This is a very important institution, and many people may still not be aware that there is a rescue for them. In a situation where they are over-indebted or have fallen victim to some kind of fraud, there is really no way out. They have the opportunity to apply for consumer bankruptcy, which in fact is not embarrassing, because it is a chance to return to normal life. I remember when the project by... During the Civil Platform's reigns, it was said that the main purpose of the original bill on consumer bankruptcy was to give citizens a chance to return to normal legal and financial turnover. Unfortunately, it is often the case that the person who over-indebted, the person on whom - colloquially speaking - the bailiff's pregnancy, often simply resigned from work or worked for the so-called. minimum wage. It caused the growth of the gray or even, I'd say, the black zone. Thus, the adoption of this law was the first good step in restoring some normality or creating conditions to return to normality for people who often did not fall victim to various frauds because of their own fault. I'm glad... I think it's a good direction to move away from the background check, at least at the initial stage, whether there was guilt or not. For a debtor who's insolvent, it doesn't matter if he's guilty or not. It is important to give him a chance, too - this must be emphasised - at the expense of those who have indebted him. This should then be the responsibility of the entities that are in debt. These are different entities, different entrepreneurs. But to make them aware not to sell their products too freely, e.g. without examining the consumer's creditworthiness. Or maybe. offer some, I don't know, pots for $7,000. Evil or 10,000. zł, when they are worth 500 zł, which in fact is often just a simple fraud. So when a person, a debtor, can no longer withdraw from the contract, has his obligations, cannot repay them, has debts that he cannot repay, that is the path, that is the way out. That's why it's very important that the Ministry of Justice... I want the government to think about how to promote this institution. The Minister mentioned that it is estimated that about 30,000. persons may be interested in declaring consumer bankruptcy on a yearly basis. Even if it was 50,000. So let's remember that this is 30 or 50,000. people who are returning to normal legal trading - people, citizens who will continue to work and pay taxes because they are returning to normal trading. They will not be forced to de facto falsely show underpaid wages. And if they can make normal money, first of all, they'll have ZUS contributions paid for full pay. Secondly, they will pay a full-wage tax. This in turn can result in an increase in tax revenue. Perhaps it would be worth considering another gradual reduction of the PIT tax. It's from individuals here, so it's PIT. Therefore, I repeat once again: at the first reading stage, I do not want to go into detail, because of course, the Kukiz Club15 will recommend to its Members that this project be put to work in committee so that these solutions are adopted, perhaps adjusted to some extent. However, it is glad that such a proposal has actually appeared, because it can actually be the answer to many actually dramas of people who have a problem, and wonder what to do next in their lives. Finally, I repeat: I think it is also worth that the Ministry, perhaps through the Social Justice Fund, should promote these institutions in the awareness of the citizens. I repeat, it's nothing embarrassing if the citizen isn't guilty of his own... And even if that happens - it's too bad, we all make mistakes. But the point is to have a chance to get back to normal functioning in legal, economic, financial trade, so that we can just work, get rich and not have a problem with the fact that some wrong debt decision has been made somewhere in the past. Well done, Minister. Bravo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u371	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will present his position on behalf of PSL-UED. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u372	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the PSL-UED Club, I would like to present our position on the government draft law amending the Insolvency Law Act and some other laws contained in Seym Print No 3480. At the beginning I will agree with the previous speaker and also - this is a general assessment - I will consider this project to be a really good change. On the one hand, when it comes to regulating the area of consumer bankruptcy, and on the other hand, I think it is worth appreciating one important advantage of this project. Namely, it shows how - with small steps, but it can - remove certain obligations from the courts, which can be used in strict cases assigned to the justice system. This is also, I think, a good thing that is worth highlighting in the discussion on this project. The aim of the proposed law is to improve the current model of consumer bankruptcy and to introduce changes that are beneficial for people in debt and creditors, for example. by simplifying certain procedures. The proposal provides for the possibility of bankruptcy by non-business persons in a simplified procedure, i.e. without the appointment of a judge of the Commissioner. This is intended to relieve insolvency and restructuring courts, which are affected by more and more cases of fallen consumers. In addition, the project introduces the possibility for debtors to enter into arrangements with creditors with limited to the minimum participation of the court. Its role would be taken over by a licensed restructuring adviser who will also ensure that the agreement is implemented. This could significantly reduce the number of new proceedings in which the debtor has to be declared bankrupt. An instrument designed to improve insolvency is the failure of the court to examine the insolvency of the debtor at the stage of the declaration of bankruptcy in the insolvency situation or its deepening. Any inappropriate, non-criminal or action directly directed at creditors, the action will be examined at the stage of establishing the creditor's repayment plan. At that time, it will be decided whether it is possible to refuse to extend, and this possibility will be limited to the situation of deliberate action of a failed man to squander his assets, thus leading to obvious damage to creditors resulting from the debtor's bad will. High Izbo! Let us be clear that such a change could lead to debt absolution, i.e. the absence of consequences of excessive, conscious debt, whereas, on the assumption of consumer bankruptcy, it would only be for those who lost control of their finances, not because of their own fault. After the changes, the court will have to take into account any request, even in a manner of speaking audaciously. The proposal also provides that single-member debtors will be treated in the same way as consumers. This will be the effect of repealing the Article. 2 bankruptcy laws. 1a. Currently, according to him, proceedings against e.g. enterprises within the meaning of the Civil Code, partners of partnerships and partnerships should be maintained in such a way that a reliable debtor is given the opportunity to extend. Left unchanged in the form of mouth. 1 says that the proceedings must be conducted in such a way that the claims of the owners can be met to the greatest extent possible and, if reasonable considerations permit, the debtor's existing company is retained. The question should be asked whether it is right to equalise the rights of those operating with those of consumers, after all, that they have different responsibilities. If an entrepreneur becomes insolvent, he is obliged to file an application for bankruptcy, the consumer has no such obligation, maybe he will declare bankruptcy if he wishes. Such a development of consumer bankruptcy, as in this project, will allow debtors to easily free themselves from debts and thus contribute to breaking one of the basic principles of civil order: pacta sunt servanda and the resulting liability for commitments. It will also seriously violate creditors' rights, [[♪ The bell ♪]] consumers can also be. These are perhaps remarks on growth, but I think it is worthwhile to take them into account in the further work that we are in favour of. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u373	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Olejniczak from the Law and Justice Club appeared on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the bankruptcy law and certain other laws, this is print No 3480. This project concerns the introduction of consumer bankruptcy solutions, including: by enabling the bankruptcy of a non-economic person to be declared in a simplified form, i.e. without the appointment of a Judge Commissioner. I would like to point out that in 2014 an amendment to the Bankruptcy and Recovery Law in the field of the so-called "bankruptcy and resolution law' entered into force. consumer bankruptcy. In view of the change in the social, economic situation and the fact that since 1 January 2016 this law has enabled the insolvency process to be launched against entrepreneurs who are former entrepreneurs and have already passed a year of withdrawal since their deletion from the National Court Register or another relevant register, there has been a very large increase in applications for consumer bankruptcy. Both an increase in the number of applications and other conditions have led to the need to amend those procedures which will be simpler, more favourable to those enjoying this legal form, and to create a clear and secure right for creditors and courts and their representatives, i.e. winding-up officers, syndicates, judicial supervisors or Commissioners. The law precisely defines the debtor's ability to behave in debt or debt-depleting, determines whether its operations were not the result of an informed act involving the loss of assets, whether there were operations leading to an informed action against creditors. In such cases, the criminal procedure is practically triggered. This law effectively protects spouses and ex-husbands, allows the court to assess whether they have been overenriched, also determines the conditions for the process of consumer insolvency, both for persons of working age and for those who have retired and takes into account their maintenance obligations. In addition, this law provides minimum social protection for these people, which represents 150% the amount which entitles the citizen to benefit from social assistance. As we know, at 11 July 2018, this amount amounted to PLN 701 for a single operator, and in the case of a dependant, that amount was PLN 528. This law sets out the procedures and costs of the entire legislative process. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this law because it is a good and necessary law that meets the needs and expectations of citizens and public authorities, above all the courts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u375	Thank you. Now we move on to asking questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. Ms Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition begins. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Over-indebted people are often those who are unhelpful against the law who have problems exercising their rights, often older ones, who have been harmed by fate, which have been found for various and random reasons in a very difficult financial situation. I have a question for the Minister: Shouldn't it be appropriate, Minister, to use the institutions of free legal assistance to help these people in their application for consumer bankruptcy? I think that this institution is not fully exploited and it could be helpful to people in this way, because it is not easy to draw up such a proposal. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u377	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u378	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The platform introduced bankruptcy law together with PSL. In 2014, you were talking about this, of course, this amount of conclusions was beginning to accumulate more and more, you were giving numbers, you were saying that we were actually very far from the West. You also said that today's court hearing period, if I remember correctly, is two years. We are making some amendments to this law, and we are talking about how we want to improve it all. How much do you think the court's review period will be? What does it look like today in the part of western Europe that you said hundreds of thousands of applications were coming in there? I hope that's how well it's done there, too, and these conclusions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] are dealt with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u379	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice, please, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the following question. According to estimates by the Ministry of Justice, how do the number of people who can potentially benefit from the consumer bankruptcy procedure develop? I think that setting this scale is crucial to determining the direction in which the procedure needs to be changed. If the number of Polish citizens who are in a state of actual insolvency is large, it is justified, in my opinion, to go to the British model with a minimum role of court for a syndicate dealing with practical supervision. On the other hand, if the scale of the phenomenon is not very large, it may be worth maintaining a slightly more restrictive procedure in order to minimise the attempt to use it unfairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u381	Mr Jacek Tomczak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to be an important and very interesting bill, as we know, expected by many people. I think that many people today face an important problem of inability to carry out their own debt service, and therefore are not able to function normally in Polish society, and this debt has an impact on the fact that they can often only function in the grey zone. So this project has a chance to become a hope for many people who find themselves in this situation. Let us not hide that bankruptcy proceedings continue indefinitely in Poland, so undoubtedly also many entrepreneurs are waiting for this initiative. I have a question: As far as you are concerned, it is possible to shorten insolvency proceedings as a result of the adoption of this bill, of course with these assumptions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where it was submitted? And second question: How much has this project been consulted with consumers and business representatives?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u383	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u384	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Question: "What idea does the Ministry have to reach out to citizens with the information that a legal institution such as a consumer bankruptcy is, does it exist that it is for them?" That's one thing. Secondly, while reiterating Mrs Czernow's question - the legal aid ultimately provided by the municipalities, the one which is actually provided by the State. Will these legal aid workers also be able to draw up applications for consumer bankruptcy? Is it perhaps worth accepting in the course of the work such a solution that it is enough for the consumer who wishes to benefit from the benefit of consumer bankruptcy simply to submit to the restructuring adviser so that the consumer knows where such restructuring advisor is? And in fact, making such a proposal is not an amazing thing. A standard can be drawn up which simply complements the consumer's data, its obligations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and, on this basis, make it even easier to get out of debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u385	Thank you. This question and earlier questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u386	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer failure is an institution which, of course, applies to a limited extent, but, as I have shown in the figures, these proceedings were only around 30 in 2014 and then the main problem which emerged here was that this system was not available to a wider group of people interested in it. Therefore, at Mr Piotr Pyzik's question - I apologize that it is not so in order - regarding what results from such low interest in this system, and to match - this is Mr Pyzik's request - a system of interest, I answer: Mr, not quite because it is a low interest, or 12,000. conclusions, precisely because this system is extremely limited in relation to the needs of citizens, the needs of consumers. The proceedings last about 2 years, which is why citizens are discouraged from applying for this kind of bankruptcy at the outset because of the whole procedure. Indeed, by simplifying this procedure, we will also increase the number of proposals. What's it like in other countries? I showed you the numbers. Great Britain, Germany - almost 100,000. bankruptcy, France - 200,000. Of course, we want to interest the widest possible group of people in this new system through... There's a lot of possibilities here. The system of free legal aid - to Mrs Czernow and Mr Grabowski - has already been in operation since 1 January. This system was introduced by a presidential law prepared in the Ministry of Justice, a law which abolishes any limits on access to free legal assistance. What is the great value of this law on free legal assistance? First of all, it breaks off from examining the state of wealth of the applicant for such free legal aid. At the moment, the citizen's declaration that he cannot afford paid legal assistance entitles him to benefit from this system. No PITs, no other declarations, checking, checking the state of possession, the level of wealth of citizens. We don't look into citizens' pockets, we trust them. They will declare that they cannot afford it - we do not check whether they can afford it or not. For one 500 zloty it's gonna be a lot, for the other it's gonna be a lot. Similarly, it is a matter of seeking free legal aid. This system has been operational since 1 January. It is consumer bankruptcy that is one of the areas, one of several, which, as the latest research shows after almost two quarters of the operation of this system, citizens are deeply interested. These are, of course, consumer matters, also labour law disputes, social security disputes, and there is a lot of family law. These are the areas that in the Ministry - because we are supervising this, the Minister of Justice supervises the functioning of the Law on Free Legal Assistance - are most interested. Consumer failure, this new system we are introducing, is an excellent complement to the system of free legal assistance. There's also a place for advertising. Additional promotion of this system, sir, is foreseen as much as possible. At the moment, we are developing a guide, and we will promote it, including through the Justice Fund, which you mentioned. We want the widest possible group of people to know about this new system. The next question concerned the scale of proceedings in the European Union - Mr Gadowski. As far as the proceedings in our country are concerned, as I mentioned, they last about 2 years. Nearly 40% of cases are cases that last more than six months. On the other hand, we do not have data on speed in other countries. Of course we can ask that, gather such information. Nevertheless, we believe that this system will certainly speed things up. They last so long because there are only 30 economic departments of regional courts that serve consumer bankruptcy. Few more than 70 judges deal with these cases. Thus, we believe that this system will undoubtedly speed things up. I think that's all the answers to the questions. Thank you very much, I hope for a fruitful discussion and once again ask you to accept the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u387	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Consumer bankruptcy has been designed as a means of helping honest debtors who have not led to their insolvency intentionally or due to negligence. In addition, its announcement is possible once every 10 years and imposes many obligations on the debtor. The current contested rules do not provide for a refusal to declare consumer bankruptcy because the debtor has led to his insolvency as a result of gross negligence and therefore increased consumer accessibility could lead to a distortion of consumer equality and creditors' rights. I ask you to answer the question: What if the consumer takes out loans recklessly or with the intention of not paying them back? Where did the previous wording indicate that bankruptcy was refused?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u389	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the bankruptcy law and certain other laws contained in print No 3480 to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws (print No 3481). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a bill amending the statutory auditor's bill, print No 3481. The draft law aims to amend the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight in order to strengthen public oversight of the activities of statutory auditors and audit firms. Experience so far has shown that there is a need for greater control of the activities of audit firms, including services other than statutory audit of financial statements, including in particular those related to the functioning of the capital market. Currently, the public oversight body, i.e. The Audit Supervisory Commission does not have sufficient tools to control the quality of the services provided by audit firms in this respect, as the public oversight system is largely based on indirect supervision. A significant part of the public oversight tasks has been delegated to the Polish Chamber of Auditors, which carries out checks on the quality of statutory audits of entities other than bodies of public interest and carries out investigations and sanctions against them. Difficulties in the implementation of public oversight tasks by the organisation of the local government, in particular as regards the carrying out of audits, have highlighted the need for changes concerning both the organisation and the structure of the supervisory authority to change the form of its activities and the way in which it is financed. It is necessary for one supervisory authority to acquire all statutory auditor services subject to professional standards for both public interest entities and entities other than public interest entities and to conduct administrative proceedings and disciplinary proceedings. This will contribute to maintaining the uniformity of proceedings, in particular as regards the finding of infringements and possible penalties. In view of the nature of the services provided by statutory auditors and audit firms and the fact that the performance of the statutory auditor's profession is in the general public interest, it was necessary to take appropriate action. The proposed solutions increase the operationality, efficiency and effectiveness of public oversight. They will ensure greater executive, operational decision-making as well as greater financial independence of the body necessary for the proper performance of supervisory tasks. Achievement of the intended purpose of the Act, i.e. The strengthening of public oversight of statutory auditors and audit firms should take place as of 1 January 2020, when the new institutional audit authority will fully carry out all the tasks entrusted to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u391	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, Mrs Ewa Szymańska will present her position. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws in print No 3481. The aim of the Act is to strengthen public oversight of the activities of auditors and audit firms in Poland, which will contribute to enhancing the quality of services provided by these entities, including services related to capital market transactions. This will allow for a high quality of services provided by statutory auditors and audit firms, bring about the proper functioning of the capital market, increase the safety of trading in financial instruments and enhance the protection of investors, shareholders and bondholders. The role of auditors and audit firms in capital market transactions is enormous. With the services they provide, investors must be sure that the financial information contained in the tender documents, e.g. the prospectuses related to the issue of bonds or shares are true and reliable. Information related to the events and supervisory activities related to the activities of one of the listed companies - I mean here GetBack - which is a public-interest entity indicates that the current system of oversight of the quality of certification services provided by statutory auditors and audit firms, and especially in relation to capital market transactions, is failing. Currently, the Audit Supervisory Commission, which supervises the quality of services provided by statutory auditors and audit firms in units of public interest, does not have sufficient tools to control the quality of services provided by audit firms related to capital market transactions, as a significant proportion of the supervisory tasks have been delegated to the Polish Chamber of Auditors, which performs quality audits of statutory audits of entities other than units of public interest and carries out investigations and sanctions against them - I mean the national disciplinary officer and the National Disciplinary Court. The draft law presented by the government contains provisions establishing a separate body - the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency, in place of the Audit Supervisory Commission, which will be a state-owned legal entity forming part of the public finance sector, designated as the competent public authority supervising the audit in Poland. It will be equipped with new supervisory, investigation and sanctioning tools for statutory auditor services subject to professional standards performed both in public entities of interest and in non-public entities of interest. The Polish Chamber of Auditors in the new system will carry out tasks within the framework of public oversight to a limited extent. It shall continue to establish national standards for the pursuit of the profession, national standards for quality control and the ethics of auditors, as well as control of statutory auditors' compliance with mandatory vocational training obligations and the performance of statutory auditors' approval and registration tasks. Disciplinary proceedings for offences other than those arising in the performance of certification services and related services carried out in accordance with national standards for the pursuit of the profession by statutory auditors will also be under the responsibility of the Polish Chamber of Auditors. The powers of the Financial Supervision Commission will remain unchanged. In view of the importance of this law for the proper and safe functioning of the capital market in Poland, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this law and proposes that it continue to act on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u393	Thank you. I invite Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, who will present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Is there a need for better public oversight of statutory auditors and audit firms? Yes. Is the Government of Law and Justice able to provide such public oversight? No. The answers to both of these questions are obvious. Because if we have had auditors in the past who, without blinking an eye, signed up to a very large number of SKOK's counterfeit financial statements, if the national money has not seen or wanted to see this extremely large counterfeiting - then we will probably explain in the committee of inquiry in the next term - and we can guess why she hasn't seen... But why didn't they see the auditors or the auditors? Apparently, more public oversight is needed. But in 2017, this public oversight in the law that implemented the directive, which was already introduced by this government, was to be stronger. You even changed the name KIBR to PIBR, thinking that it would make a difference at all, because if something is Polish, it can't be wrong. Turns out nothing good happened. Moreover, KNA was given the task of controlling the statutory audit of public interest entities. The Audit Supervisory Board shall record this in its mission and in its tasks. Minister! Is GetBack an individual of public interest, or was he? He was. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: There he is, there he is.]] What happened? [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: To this day there is no...]] But he was when he tricked thousands of people into billions. Then why wasn't KNA investigating the financial statements of the public interest entity's listed company? Do you think if you change your name and instead of KNA you'll have another agency, something's gonna get better? I mean, you're gonna call the same people into this agency. Or it will be the colleagues of Prime Minister Morawiecki, and if another wind blows and the president changes his mind, it will be the colleagues of Minister Ziobra. Just like in the famous company of Critical Applications, for which no one other than the Minister fought like a lion. Mother, do you remember? We were supposed to lose 3 billion zlotys a month from the budget. So far, we've lost a dozen billion. Looks like you don't have any more for these new presidents, probably third ones in turn, for payouts. Looks like you're gonna run out of time for July. So we need to strengthen public oversight, but this government is inefficient, because you've eliminated, ruined financial market surveillance. What happened at the time that GetBack was cheating people and when the auditors should have audited the company's activities, and the KNA, the De facto Minister of Finance, should control these auditors? The chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission corrupted bankers. That's not good enough. Not only did KNF lose its authority, the authority lost its KNA, the authority lost even the National Bank of Poland - it is already the world championship. 'Cause what does it turn out to be? It turns out that the National Bank of Poland in the times of PiS is some kind of storage facility for PiS activists who make a lot of money there, and for former finance ministers that you have to put on the sidelines. I'm just wondering why this siding is so expensive for a Polish taxpayer, because maybe it shouldn't be. Completing. The fact that you spend millions of dollars from the state budget to organize a new agency, to set up all those relatives and friends of the rabbit there, will not change anything in the security of the Polish financial market. But there's good news. When you lose the election in the autumn before this agency is created, it will be a chance to create real financial supervision and security of the financial market in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u395	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 regarding the government draft law amending the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws. I will admit that I have a problem here, because the bill is supposed to be some kind of panacea for an identified, let's call things by name, the pathology of the fact that the current or current model of supervision of the activities of audit firms or auditors has simply failed. The specific cases identified and indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, but also probably more widely known to the Members in particular from work in other committees, indicate that this model of supervision must actually be changed. On the other hand, I was wondering, and unfortunately I was not able to come to the conclusion, why, since we already have, firstly, the Financial Supervision Committee, was created an Audit Supervision Committee. That's interesting. After all, the financial system, the capital market in Poland is one whole, so - on the logic - looking from the point of view of rationality and also the effectiveness of spending public money, i.e. those which the citizens of hard-earned wages pay in the form of taxes, it would seem that financial supervision should be comprehensive, organised by the Financial Supervision Commission. But you came up with the idea that you created an audit committee instead of a committee -- let's say -- a sidetrack to the financial supervision committee, which was supposed to oversee this audit in some way. In addition, it was changed to PIBR. It turns out that now you've come up with the idea that if it's bad, you need to create a new institution, a new agency, or whatever you want to call it, which is supposed to take care of surveillance. And here the question arises in my head: What about the KNA in this situation? If the market surveillance of auditors is to be carried out by an institution other than the Audit Supervisory Authority, why do we need the Audit Supervisory Board in such a situation? I'm sighing because it's just hard for me to find the logic and purpose of doing this, where new institutions, new agencies, are being created all the time. I see, these are new jobs. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Rabbit friends need to find a job.]] Minister! If already, new jobs need to be created, or helped to create them for entrepreneurs in the free market, rather than constantly expanding the scope of, say, public or state institutions, i.e. increasing the number of officials who will control them. In this case, Minister, consider whether it makes sense. I hope that if you come out here any minute, he'll take it up with you. What's the point... Now that we're talking about the capital market, we have KNF - the Financial Supervision Commission, the Audit Supervisory Board. What's the new institution's name? So, Minister, I'll say yes. The Poselski Kukiz Club15, bearing in mind the identified and indicated in the explanatory memorandum - let us call things by name - pathologies related to irregularities in the supervision of the financial market, the activities of auditors or auditors over the activities of units of public interest, is in favour of proceding this law and improving this model of supervision so that there are no risks in the financial market in Poland in order to minimise risks. On the other hand, we are opposed to creating a new institution. I hope that, in the course of a calm, substantive work in the committee, we will be able to agree that perhaps the creation of another new institution is not the best solution and it is worth simply extending the remit of the Audit Supervisory Committee and already. Since it is established, it exists, it functions, it is enough to give it tools and there is no need to create another new entity, which will have part of the competence of those that could be awarded to the KNA today. We are therefore in favour of further proceding this bill, but we hope that this law will change its content, that the solutions proposed in it will change according to the idea of rationality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u397	On behalf of the Modern Club... Excuse me, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. I would like to invite you, Member of the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u398	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the government's print project No 3481. The bill is such a typical example of centralization of power. This time it is a proposal to centralise supervisory powers over the activities of auditors and audit firms in Poland. The project envisages the creation of a new state-owned legal entity supervised by the Minister of Finance under the name: Polish Audit Supervisory Agency. The new agency is to replace and take over its tasks as from 1 January 2020. The government justifies this centralisation with the need for greater control of audit firms and auditors because of their important role in capital market transactions. The Agency's task will be to control all audit firms by carrying out various forms of planned, ad hoc or thematic controls. Not only related activities will be covered by supervision, e.g. with audit or review of financial statements, but also all certification and related services provided by audit firms, in accordance with national standards for the pursuit of the profession. In addition, the Agency will have the power to conduct disciplinary proceedings against all auditors who have committed an offence and to refer applications to the court for their punishment. Similarly, the Agency's exclusive competence will also be to conduct administrative proceedings and impose penalties on all audit firms for offences committed by them in connection with the provision of certification and related services. The Agency will take over from the Polish Chamber of Auditors even keeping lists of audit firms. On the other hand, the Polish Chamber of Auditors will retain the right to establish national standards for the pursuit of the profession of statutory auditor, the principles of professional ethics and the control of professional improvement, as well as the approval and registration of auditors. The Board of Auditors will also conduct disciplinary proceedings but only against statutory auditors for offences other than those arising from the pursuit of the profession, e.g. arising from the provision of advice or service keeping of accounts. The role of the Polish Chamber of Auditors is definitely decreasing, and the government justifies that this professional self-government, i.e. the Polish Chamber of Auditors, did not take sufficient action on the tasks entrusted to it, and also points to the chronicity of proceedings conducted by the Chamber's authorities, i.e. the national disciplinary officer and the National Disciplinar Court. Such an approach of the government to improving, solving such issues, issues, is not a phenomenon. It is such a fundamental principle of this government: it is necessary to set up a new agency or foundation, to expand the administration, and it is necessarily central, and those controlled, in this case all entrepreneurs, employers, will pay for it anyway. The bodies of this new agency will be the president and the board of agencies, and the board will be composed of the president, deputy, seven members, two representatives of the Minister of Finance, one Minister of Justice, the Commission for Financial Supervision and the Polish Chamber of Auditors, employers' organisations and the Stock Exchange. There is no denying that the costs of this new unit will be borne by the lowest wagers, i.e. the controlled ones, the entrepreneurs. In our view, this project means the typical expansion of central administration at the expense of those who create the economy, i.e. entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u399	Thank you. On behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Is there a need for changes in the supervision of audit firms in Poland? Of course I do. The events that took place in 2018 highlighted shortcomings in this area. On the other hand, is it necessary to establish a Polish Audit Supervisory Agency? I'm having huge doubts here. In fact, we have the Audit Supervisory Board, which acts as the market supervisor, and it seems that the change of powers, the extension of supervisory instruments, the transfer of certain powers to this entity would be sufficient. The creation of the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency is not necessary. The fact that, as I said, the Audit Supervision Commission and the PIP's supervision of audit firms did not work out, showed best the events of April 2018 when a company listed on the Stock Exchange, acting on a regulated market, an issuer of shares and bonds, with a prospectus approved by the Financial Supervision Commission, financial statements audited by a reputable audit firm, one year after the approval of the prospectus, KNF suspended listings on the Stock Exchange, and the bondholders and shareholders of this company learned of its insolvency. The problem was, in fact, how irregularities were discovered in this company, and so was the previous financial scandals, mainly related to the SKOKs, which were also subject to such supervision. The point was that the problems in this company were not discovered by the Financial Supervision Authority, nor by the audit firm that examined its books, but we actually learned about all of this because the company's president, in despair, was looking for capital that could improve the company's liquidity overnight, made some mistakes. We remember the news that he talks to two important institutions about funding GetBack - because that's what I'm talking about - the amount of PLN 250 million, after which these partners have discredited these rumors and started panicking. In such a situation, the question arises as to why these irregularities, which we later learned, were not revealed, meaning that it is really about not revealing the manipulation of financial data, manipulating the portfolios that the company managed, drawing out money, basically leaking money every possible way, you can say, cheating and screwing into a bottle of bondsmen and shareholders. Why didn't we learn about it as a result of a book study? After all, no one had any doubt that these irregularities occurred in the company for several years, not even months. In fact, we have a basic question here. The auditor argues that all the financial audit activities he carried out at GetBack carried out properly, in accordance with the rules of supervision. If that's true, then the Minister was actually gentle here, because I would say that these events show that we can give up the research of the books at all. If the auditor actually does everything according to financial art, in accordance with good practice and responsibilities, and there is a very large fraud, then the question can be asked: Why do we need these studies, why do we even need supervisory activities and studies of experts that do not lead to anything? On the other hand, if the auditor is not telling the truth and bears the responsibility for this whole situation, because he has closed his eyes to irregularities, the truth is even sadder, because it is a misorganized state of law to which citizens cannot, in principle, trust and certainly cannot have it in the financial market. As I said, this discussion is needed. A change in supervision is necessary in order to restore the credibility of financial supervision, audit supervision in general. We have huge problems with this, which also affects the entire capital market in our country. But, Minister, this can't be about new jobs, new institutions. We really don't need this anymore in the Polish Central Administration. Citizens are tired of spending money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We want to talk about this law and about this change within the committee, so of course I recommend today that this law be passed to the Public Finance Commission. However, I hope that during this debate you will change your mind about what audit supervision really needs today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u401	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. Time - 1 minute. As no one else is reporting, I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, the PiS Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the course of preliminary analyses carried out in the Ministry of Finance, have you considered introducing an IT system to verify the next quality of the work of statutory auditors and audit firms on the basis of objective data? Today's possibilities offered by IT tools allow for extremely complex analyses according to automated, complex algorithms also supported by so-called. Artificial intelligence. Using such tools, it would be possible to seal the system significantly without dramatically increasing the cost of its operation. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u403	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u404	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Question: "Have you considered harmonising the system of financial supervision of the financial market in Poland at all, but are you in favour of some sort of fragmentation of this supervision?" Perhaps it would be better if it were one strong, with far-reaching powers, an efficient Financial Supervision Commission or whatever you would like to call it, but it would be one specific institution, so that there is no such fragmentation, which in fact makes life complicated and supervised entities and companies themselves that are involved in auditing or statutory auditors. So the question is, do you think about harmonising this supervision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u405	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think this idea of setting up another agency makes any sense. It follows from such a belief of the government and of the PiS that another area of social life needs to be controlled. Most often, this is not a substantive control, but a political control. It is about control over the actions of specific local authorities. We see it in many institutions of the state, it's taken over. So here's my question: have you even considered any other scenarios? If disciplinary courts are not functioning properly in the local government of former auditors, it is necessary to consider how to improve the activities of these courts rather than creating a powerful institution that will cost Polish citizens tens of millions. The second question is: Has this project been consulted with business representatives? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u407	Thank you. Another question, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is clear that the emergence of this new central legal entity and its functioning will result in new burdens. According to the project, the government predicts that in the beginning, i.e. in 2019 and 2020, grants will be granted from the State budget for equipment and the first period of activity, but in the next period costs will be covered by fees from audit firms. That's what the project says. So I'm asking you about the details of the financial settlement in the next few years. Where will the funds of these audit firms come from? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u409	Thank you. This question and previous questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Leszek Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the answers to your questions, perhaps I should start by asking Mr Grabowski. It is worth remembering that the Commission for Financial Supervision is indeed an institution that examines financial markets, the banking sector, the insurance sector. In this respect, It is not always the case that auditors or audit firms examine financial companies, because actually tasks or obligations related to the relevant laws are imposed on all companies that conduct business activities: from car manufacturers to most other manufacturing and service companies. Therefore, we are talking about the entire audit market, with auditors who today, we can say, operate in this way. With regard to entities of public interest, this supervision of the Audit Supervisory Committee is increased in the sense that if we are dealing with selected important entities, e.g. listed companies, indeed auditors, audit firms need to follow the guidelines more closely, are subject to scrutiny by the Audit Supervision Committee. To the extent that has already been mentioned today, i.e. companies that are not yet on the stock exchange, such as GetBack in 2015 and 2016, when most of the worst things have happened, it is also the ones mentioned by Mrs Leszczyna SKOK-i, which are not public interest units. They are not subject, you can say, to the supervision of the Audit Supervisory Committee in so far as these financial statements are concerned, to the activities of statutory auditors as regards the relevant local authorities. Therefore, PIBR is, you can say, the competent local authority, which checks whether everything is being carried out to the right degree. Experience in recent years has shown that the government has not really worked. That's the answer to the question that came up last time. This experience of local supervision of audit firms is insufficient. For this reason, a new solution is needed, which is to transform the KNA into a new entity, which can analyse all those issues which are related to the activities of those entities which are not of public interest. There are also mentioned SKOKs, and there are other units. In this respect, auditors shall be subject to scrutiny. If there are irregularities, we have a better chance of punishing them for these irregularities. Today, we sometimes hear that in the case of an auditor or auditor, these irregularities do not end in appropriate penalties. That is why this law seems to be a good solution to the problems I was just talking about. Mr Pyzik asked about the use of artificial intelligence. Let me remind you that we are dealing with a three-step element: we have a production and service company, we have an auditor who checks whether everything in the company's business is correct, and we have supervision of the audit. To the extent regulated by the law, this refers to the relationship between the statutory auditor and the supervisory authority, i.e. the newly appointed agency in this case. We do not interfere with the way books are checked, which means we do not interfere with how experts conduct their daily activities. We are not interfering with a material bill, such as the Accounting Act. All existing practices continue to apply. Of course, applying artificial intelligence to better study the books, to better investigate the information that is, can be applied, that is a challenge for the future. Of course, this must always be carefully analysed so as not to impose new obligations on companies, not to impose new obligations on auditors. As authors of this bill, we are primarily interested in ensuring that the activities of auditors are lawful, that any irregularities we have recently heard are punished and that there are no such situations as are mentioned here in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u411	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and certain other laws contained in print No 3481 to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce payment congestion (print No 3475). Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mr Marek Nieżak will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I am pleased to present a project commonly called an anti-zator project, about amending some laws, which is precisely aimed at reducing the problem of payment congestion in Poland. So maybe I'll start with a certain presentation of some basic data showing the scale of the problem, which somehow also justify why we decided to start working on the law on this problem. Thus, according to the market data, around 80 Polish companies declare problems with late payments. In the first quarter of 2019, the value of unpaid invoices in the portfolio of such an average company is on average 22.7% I'm counting in percentage, that's for every $1,000. PLN 227. The average waiting time for payment is 3 months. Over three months, I'm sorry. And let's add to this general picture also that the smaller the company that experiences congestion, the proportional this basket is bigger for it, i.e. for the smallest companies, for micro-entrepreneurs, for small companies the problem of congestion is much more painful. It's even obvious in its own way, isn't it? Large companies are companies that usually have large reserves and have cheaper access to credit. Over-terming, the non-payment of invoices by their debtors can usually be offset in this way. For a small company, a longer period of lack of cash, such as, say, failure to pay, probably even a few more important invoices, may involve serious problems, and in extreme cases even bankruptcy. It is also worth noting that we have EU regulation in this area. We have a Directive on payment dates in commercial transactions in 2011, which Poland has implemented, but such an EU ex post evaluation, OSR ex post, carried out at EU level, indicates that the solutions contained there have not been entirely successful. In general, the law provides for a whole range of such tools, but private ones, i.e. those where the creditor himself must show initiative, must, I don't know, go to court to enforce his rights. For very different reasons, this is not happening. At the same time, this directive is not, if any, closed. It allows Member States, individual Member States, to introduce solutions that are more beneficial to the creditor than those in the directive. Interestingly, individual countries benefit from this possibility. And so on. in the Netherlands, in such asymmetrical contracts between a large entrepreneur and an SME entrepreneur, large entities may not set a payment deadline of more than 60 days. In the UK, however, this is the obligation to report on the payment practices used. Each large company must publish information on its payment deadlines. In France, on the other hand, we have such maximum statutory limits, but in particular sectors, as well as administrative, administrative and non-private penalties, for companies that are excessively, say, slow to pay their commitments. And now we're seeing, collecting signals from the market about how big the problem is, we started work and started it not with the project that I'm presenting now, but with the Green Paper. But I would like to stress that because I would like to point out that this law was created in dialogue with entrepreneurs. In April 2018, we published just such a Green Paper, which, on the one hand, described the problem, and on the other, we described what it looks like in other European countries, what solutions are used in the European Union, and we consulted, we asked individual entrepreneurs, as well as business associations, to take the floor, whether they are against, whether this particular solution makes sense or not. We have gathered a response which I would sum up about this way: congestion is an area where even such entrepreneurs or business associations, which very often stand in such a position very, I would say free market, do not intervene, we will manage ourselves, in this area they see the meaning of state intervention, because they realise that despite private legal tools it is often so that particularly smaller, economically weaker and contract-based companies do not use these rights. The results of the consultation of the Green Paper and the legal and comparative studies have been completed by the project. As a result, a project was created, which was, of course, consulted, agreed, and which I am pleased to present to you at this moment. I would now like to recall some of the key solutions that we have here. This is a package project and therefore changes a number of other laws across the board. We are aware that the problem of payment congestion is a multifaceted, complex and certainly multi-cause problem. You can't handle it with just one tool or just one mechanism. Rather, we need to take advantage of the whole range of solutions and try to tackle this problem on many fronts. I think that such a flagship solution contained in the project is the maximum payment deadlines. According to philosophy: we start with each other, we provide for a 30-day payment deadline for a transaction in which on the one hand there will be a public entity and on the other hand - an entrepreneur. When a public entity is a debtor, it may not be on an invoice or in a contract with a longer than 30-day payment deadline. The maximum, 60-day term is proposed in the so-called. asymmetric relationships, i.e. when on the one hand we have SMEs and on the other hand a large entrepreneur as a debtor. It seems to us that these 60 days - although I realize, of course, that this is interference in freedom of contract - is a reasonable term. As I say, we have looked at what it looks like in other countries, we have looked at it in agreements, in the context of the Green Paper consultation and in the RDS. We also looked at what it looks like from an entrepreneur's perspective. It seems that this 60-day time limit as a maximum time limit is a reasonable time limit. There is also a reporting obligation in relation to large businesses, following the British solution that I mentioned earlier. It is about reports to the Minister responsible for the economic affairs of precisely applicable payment deadlines. I think it's on the one hand. It's a soft solution because it doesn't involve some kind of sanction. Nevertheless, this is a solution which I hope will be considered as an opportunity for some large companies to build a positive image, i.e. thanks to it you will be able to see how these companies treat their nearest business environment, their creditors, their counterparties, their stakeholders. I hope that this will allow us to build awareness that, as part of good practice, such a decent, reasonable payment term should also be considered as something to be boasted of as an asset in relations with other entrepreneurs. The most radical, farthest-reaching solution in the project is the solution modelled to some extent on French solutions. It's administrative, financial, public-law penalties. These punishments will be served by the president of the UOKiK. In this respect, the proposal provides for a new procedure, a new mandate for the President. These penalties will only threaten the largest, most unreliable debtors, for which the sum of late invoices will be PLN 2 million, not paid within 3 consecutive months. This solution is intended to apply only to extreme situations. I am aware that this is a far-reaching solution, but at both EU and national level there are very clear signals that purely private legal instruments are insufficient. Very often small companies do not enforce their rights to large debtors for various reasons. I think there's room for some state intervention here. Another important solution in the tax area, which I would like to point out further, is the so-called. relief for bad debts in CIT and PIT. This solution is modelled on the solution that we already have in the case of VAT. It means that if the invoice is not paid... Maybe otherwise, please forgive me. This is an exception to the principle of memorial, i.e. If someone has an invoice they've issued, they're basically gonna have to take it into their own hands. Someone issued the invoice, she's unpaid, but it's still accounted for as his income. That's how the memorial works. We want a creditor who is unsatisfied whose invoice has not been paid in contractual terms after 90 days to be able to reduce his income by that amount. It seems to us some injustice that on the one hand he did not receive the money, because the invoice was not paid, and on the other hand it is treated as income, so he will have to pay tax on it. A relief for bad debts is supposed to be such a mechanism, I would say, to mitigate this tax consequence associated with congestion. In the area of civil procedure, we have a solution that simplifies the procedure for obtaining collateral for commercial transactions with a value not exceeding 75 000. PLN, i.e. in the jurisdiction of regional courts. I realize that security is, of course, not the same as a judgment ruling, but the security has this advantage, that it can often be obtained quite quickly, and it actually depends most often, often, I say in some simplification, on freezing somewhere, in the account, money, which later is a chance to satisfy itself. This is, I think, an important advantage of this solution. Here, too, we have a solution that extends the catalogue of unfair competition to an action involving unjustified extension of payment deadlines for goods or services supplied. This is already such a classic private-law tool, but it seems to us also important in practice, it is about claims concerning dishonesty. Entrepreneurs use it. It seems to me that such an additional tool or, let's say, a weapon in this arsenal wouldn't hurt the creditor, and I'm counting on it to help. To conclude, I would like to say a few more sentences in general. I am aware of this and it is important to realise that payment congestion is a complex problem. It has many reasons. Many of them are not, let's say, purely legal issues, many of them are the question of access to capital, also of a culture, of many things. It's not a problem that can just be legally resolved in some way, like a cut. Nevertheless, it seems to me that it can be limited. But we are aware that here we are dealing with interference in the area of freedom of contract. Therefore, we have a declaration in the Act, in the OSR, sorry, concerning the annual, for 3 years of validity of the Act, an annual analysis of the effects of the regulation. This is very important and we take it really seriously. It seems to me that this will have to be analyzed, because in a few years, some of these solutions will work well, let them remain, some may have to be modified somehow. I think you have to look at it a little bit the way you look at it, I don't know, when you seal the tax system. This is not a process that can be done with one move. This is rather just spread over some steps and I would take it as a second but very important step - the second, because the first was probably the implementation of the EU directive. I'm asking you kindly to accept the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u413	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Ewa Malik will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to limit payment congestion, Parliamentary Printing No 3475. The aim of the project is to introduce solutions to mobilise traders' debtors, both public entities and traders, to pay within a fixed period of time, and to effectively discourage them from unduly extending their payment deadlines. The main objective of the Act is to improve the legal environment in which entrepreneurs operate, the main economic actors in Poland, which is enshrined in the most important document of the Government of Law and Justice, i.e. in the Strategy for Responsible Development. According to the European Payment Report, around 78% entrepreneurs receive payment for the work done 30 days after the deadline and a further 13% remains without payment up to 60 days. The analysis of the structure of outstanding claims showed that the average maturity of late repayment is the longest in the group of micro-entrepreneurs and is 3 months and 12 days, and in the group of large companies - 2 months and 21 days. Thus, the smaller the enterprise, the greater the share of the costs resulting from late payments in total costs. The government project calls for a reduced period of 30 days for payment in transactions in which a public entity is a debtor and without the possibility of extension. The only exception to this rule is medical establishments for which a 60-day settlement deadline is still proposed. Since public entities are usually a good and reliable payer, the amendment of the rules towards the legal prohibition of exceeding the 30-day payment deadline meets with a positive opinion among entrepreneurs. Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating late payment in commercial transactions, which constitutes the basis of the Polish Act of 8 March 2013 on payment dates in commercial transactions, recognises the specific nature of medicinal entities in the need to ensure a balance between individual patient needs and the financial resources available to health institutions. The practice of setting excessively extended payment deadlines in contracts also contributes to the phenomenon of payment congestion to a large extent. The government project introduces a statutory obligation to apply a maximum 60-day payment deadline in transactions where the creditor is a small or medium-sized company and the debtor is a large trader. The largest companies will also be subject, preventively, to an additional reporting obligation consisting of the need to publish information on payment practices and payment deadlines. Other solutions to the bill aimed at eliminating payment congestion include provisions on the application of civil-law measures, namely: strengthening the creditor's powers in commercial transactions, higher compensation for small and medium-sized enterprises, shorter payment deadlines, financial penalties for companies which are notoriously abusing their economic advantage. In addition, an extension of the debt relief to income tax, including the obligation for debtors to increase the tax base by more than 120 days past due. The draft law is not contrary to European Union law. The draft law is also accompanied by a consultation report. The results of the consultation have been written down in the form of a Green Paper and confirm clearly that entrepreneurs are faced with the practice of late settlement by counterparties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the main cause of difficulties in conducting business activity in Poland. To sum up, the changes adopted by the government in the law are intentional and are conducive to safeguarding both the interests of individual economic operators, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and to strengthening fair competition in economic trade. The Law and Justice Club supports the provisions of the bill proposed by the government, the sejm print No 3475 and recommends its adoption in the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u415	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u416	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Hell is paved with good intentions, as old wisdom says. I have the impression that we have a bill in front of us that fits very well with this saying, a bill that aims to reduce payment congestion. If we put a dot right now, it's okay. The goal is right, it's good, it'll only get worse when we get to practice. I am somewhat confounded, Minister, because your statement today sounds very different from that of other representatives of the Ministry and politicians of the PiS who appeared before today in the media. I read it, and I heard you say it a few minutes ago. The first one is reading, so I will limit myself only to general comments. First of all, the Ministry should be thanked. A huge thank you that he was the first in this term to have the courage to tell what was going on in the Polish economy. The first pages of the justification are the collection of all statements, data, what is really happening in the Polish economy, one big accusation of the government in connection with what he has done with the Polish economy over the last 3.5 years. It is clear that payment congestion is a bad thing for the economy, but it is also obvious to economists that, if the economy is well, the payment congestion itself, automatically, is limited by free market mechanisms. When the economy starts to get bad, we have more and more problems with payment congestion. What do we see on the front pages of the justification? Data on the fact that payment deadlines have been rapidly increasing for 2 years, that expired debts have been increasing and that maturity has been increasing. Such accusations against the Polish economy under the rule of the PiS in times of huge global economic situation, moreover, in times of economic situation in our immediate environment, i.e. in the European Union, there really was not yet in the Seym. Let's give it a big round of applause for the courage. Now a few comments on the bill. What concerns me personally is such a highly socialist approach. This is how the bill works: we will introduce a limitation and determine what the maximum payment deadlines are. Everything's cool. The bill will determine, regulate, there will be no more freedom of economic agreements, and if someone exceeds those deadlines, they will get their hands on it, because administrative penalties will be imposed on him. This bill increases the amount of criminal interest. It's all the cost. Who's gonna pay for this? Entrepreneurs will pay. Which entrepreneurs? Those who are in trouble. We're gonna have a domino effect, what's the worst in payment congestion. What is already supersocialist in this bill is a reporting obligation, as if these reports to the UOKiK were really going to help. I really don't see any added value in the fact that companies will have another obligation and the accountant will sit and do reports for the UOKiK, as it is with payment deadlines in our company. The next thing is: I personally as a man who has worked in the economy for years, worried in many speeches, Minister, those I read and heard in the media, the lightness of calling dishonest entrepreneurs those who exceed payment deadlines. Only someone who does not know the practice of the real free market economy can think that entrepreneurs exceed the deadlines only because they are dishonest and that they do so on purpose. This is often due to the problems of this entrepreneur and the domino effect. There's another answer to that question. Namely, this lightness of using the term "unfair entrepreneur" can be caused by dishonest, because wrong intentions. This can be because it worries that once again PiS divides Poles into two groups, good and bad. The good ones are the ones they don't pay, and the bad ones are the ones who don't pay on time. Probably if we stayed at this point, it'd be okay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just that there's an extension of this division that the good guys who don't get paid are the little guys, and the bad guys are the big guys. This is what is very disturbing, and I will look very closely at it during the detailed examination of this project, because when PiS already once in this term divided entrepreneurs, exactly traders, on the big ones - the bad ones, and the small ones - the good ones, it unfortunately ended badly. It ended badly especially for the 27,000. closed small shops. Well, hell is good intentions paved. Mrs. Marshal! Thank you very much for the opportunity to extend your speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u417	There you go. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u418	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the draft law so-called. an anti-embolic event. I must say that I was curious to hear the speech of the Member. I have the impression that the Member has presented a world in which there are two entrepreneurs and that there is nothing around. That's not true. Often, these congestions, which are bad things that need to be combated, are created on the basis of Domino effect. There's one crooked businessman... [[That's what I said.]] ...who doesn't want to - momento - pay... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But the Member said so.]] ...and that causes others to fall into a trap later on, losing their liquidity. So in this situation, if we put in place what this law provides for, various kinds of sanctions and sharpenings for these so-called ones. Unfair entrepreneurs, that, in my opinion, is a good solution. But here is an important criterion of honesty, Minister. So those entrepreneurs who don't pay not because they don't want to, just because they can't, they don't get punished with that kind of punishment, or so they can move... Maybe it's worth thinking about. Since you are proposing that the income of the creditor to whom the debtor has failed to fulfil his obligation be the income of the debtor, it may also be worth transferring those sanctions to which individual entities may be burdened and which are the individual elements of this domino in order for it to go up, to the trader who actually is guilty and intentionally leads to congestion. That's an offer. On the other hand, as regards the law itself, it is certainly worth referring it to the committee, and that is why the Kukiz Club will recommend to its Members a vote in favour of the fact that this project actually goes to the committee. It's worth leaning over in committee, because the sad practice of everyday life looks so... Of course, I can be blamed for the casuistics that I will use a concrete example, and I will not say in general that this is what it says in the explanatory memorandum of the bill and that this is particularly true for small entrepreneurs. In practice, it appears that a small entrepreneur who does not have a large turnover, who simply has no other additional cash injection or is unable to obtain quickly income from other sources, in the case of one or two unpaid invoices, sometimes one in a larger amount, simply loses liquidity. This results in consequences at the tax office, which results in consequences in the Social Security Office, which results in consequences in suppliers of various services or goods which provide goods and services to it, and thus causes its bankruptcy and eliminates it from business turnover, which is the worst possible solution. That is why I am paying attention to this, too, to the Minister. Since it is mentioned that if this obligation is not fulfilled for 120 days, the benefit of the debtor may be transferred from the creditor to the debtor. But the question is: What will the office do during these 120 days? Will he demand the payment of the creditor's tax, which is a victim or an unfair debtor, or is it a debtor who is unable to pay because he himself is the victim of another dishonest debtor? This is something to think about, which solutions are to be adopted here and what the practice of functioning is to be like. tax offices, or the Social Security Office itself. I agree with what you have said. The project has beautiful intentions, but I think it needs to be worked out in committee, worked out solutions. I encourage dialogue, so that you listen to both the sides of entrepreneurs and the sides of the opposition. I think that as, broadly speaking, a non-governmental group, we are able to give you some guidance or give you some ideas that could be applied. It is simply a matter of not correcting this law quickly, because soon the end of the term of the Sejm, and the practice shows that you are correcting your projects, which you adopted earlier, about six months after the adoption of the law. It would be a shame for entrepreneurs to wait another six months, since the case can be settled, say, within a month or two months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u419	Thank you. And Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will present his position on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u420	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to say that the bill is needed because problems with debtors are very often associated with drastic consequences for businesses. Only that this project presented is, in my opinion, a very difficult project, very difficult to implement. He will be very difficult to implement because he is very extensive and we today, considering the issue of corporate debt, payment congestion, because that's what we need to call it, we don't have a zero-one situation here. Every case is different. And carrying out these extensive analyses, which we are talking about here, tracking all these cases, is a huge expansion of administrative responsibilities, which we often say must be eliminated, that entrepreneurs are burdened with excessive administrative responsibilities, which increases costs and consequently also increases debts. On the other hand, a separate case is the creditor - the debtor. This is also very complicated, because as it was said before, this debtor still has a debtor somewhere and only one step or another we will move this income. This could cause the one who owes you to fall down, too, and he's going to be in financial trouble, so let's call it. On the other hand, this is very often the reason that public sector entities are in huge financial difficulties and do not pay entrepreneurs, perhaps even small ones, which is the other way, the big ones are not paying, and we also have such relationships, even if the whole health sector. Today, the debt of hospitals is increasing dramatically. I've got a visual of what's going on in county hospitals. And these creditors are on their way, somewhere on a lower level, suppliers of such or other things, energy, medicines, food, very many. Those are the ones on the lower level. And here is the responsibility of the state. Why is health care in such trouble? Well, it's a good thing that the health services are excluded from this scheme and there's another way of mobilizing, let's call it. But that doesn't solve the problem, because many hospitals have obligations that are already eligible for liquidation. This raises the question of what's next when it comes to health care. It's very disturbing to me, because I have a lot of these signals every week, and that comes from a lack of funding, from underfunding. Where is the ill will of this hospital director, who can't end up binding and must send patients home, or those service providers who do not receive the dues for the goods delivered? We will vote in favour of referring the bill to committee work. However, we are concerned about many solutions, because it looks too optimistic. I think there are a lot of proposals here that cannot be met. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u421	Thank you. The position on behalf of the Modern Club will be presented by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u422	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The phenomenon of late payments is actually affecting 80.90% companies in Poland, as stated by the Ministry in the explanatory memorandum to the law. As many as 32% of entrepreneurs have problems with timely payment for more than 1/3 of their debts. These are statistics that have a lot to do with the truth. But the reasons why Polish entrepreneurs do not pay are very much. When talking about such an extremely important economic area, all these reasons must be taken into account. To begin with, let us focus on the solutions proposed by this bill, so quite generally analysing what it contains. For example, you propose to reduce the deadline to 30 days in transactions in which a public entity is a debtor. Here I have a question for the Minister. What if this problem concerns a hospital that today has a liquidity problem and its problems are due to the fact that today, in principle, the valuation of medical procedures in hospitals does not reflect the actual operating costs of these hospitals? This is a common problem. Yes, hospitals in Poland do not make their payments. If, instead of improving the system, we put penalties in their hands, nothing good is really going to come out of it, but it's going to make these hospitals have an even bigger problem. You want to introduce a statutory obligation to apply a maximum of 60 days' pay in the case of transactions where the creditor is a small, medium-sized enterprise and the debtor is a large trader. Okay, but what happens if this big businessman is himself a victim of abuse? What has already been said here, problems with payments entrepreneurs have for various reasons. Sometimes because they've come across an unfair payer themselves, and sometimes simply because there was a spiral, someone didn't pay someone, and then subcontractors, contractors have problems with payments towards their suppliers, whether they're services or goods. Then, in fact, by adding to a company that, as I say, has become an unpaid creditor, we will increase its problems, perhaps leading to the fact that a few people in this company will lose their jobs and eventually the company will declare bankruptcy. The State must consider different situations and take into account different scenarios, so strongly interfering with the free market. In fact, it's worth leaning over, but you have to approach it, Minister, systemically. And systematically, we also know what encourages us not to pay in Poland. Minister, what encourages not to pay in Poland? E.g. Inefficient judicial system. The time of waiting for a sentence in Polish courts, the decision is prolonged, the number of vacancies increases. After all, dishonest entrepreneurs in Poland know among others. The fact that, in fact, it is necessary to wait two years for the start of legal proceedings on financial claims and therefore the dishonest do not fear not to pay. This shows what problems we have in Poland. It's not just that we have dishonest entrepreneurs, because we also have those who have become victims themselves and have become liquidity problems. What is also important here is that we do not have good solutions on a system basis. Returning to the issue of the judiciary, I would like to say that in total in all courts - these are figures at the end of January 2019 - 9720 judges are adjudicated, 725 posts are not filled, which is the result of confounding, corrupting the situation in the judiciary in connection with the introduction of a deformity by the Minister of Justice. We want to talk about the problem of irregular payments, the congestion of payments, and we are in favour of this bill going to committee, but Minister, we cannot fire a child with a bath. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We really need to look at the problem systematically and consider this law in a responsible manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u423	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. Time - 1 minute. I see no one ever signs up again, so I'm closing the list. And we begin with Mr Pyzik, the Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since the identified problem with payment congestion is the concern of an economic operator to investigate an overdue debt due to risk of loss of a counterparty or exposure to the costs of a long-term judicial procedure, I have the following question: Is it not possible for tax authorities to impose a penalty on any non-regulated entity within a fixed period of time, if the same entity is not in a similar situation, in so far as it does not have an outstanding debt arising from its current business? Another point is whether more stringent rules should be introduced setting acceptable payment deadlines in order to limit the use of disparities in the size and market power of economic operators. Penalties should also be provided for here, irrespective of the wishes of economic operators, unless a written agreement setting a longer period for payment would be registered, together with a justification, in the tax authorities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such a solution removes the need to strain relations with counterparties from the creditor. On the other hand, there is a real threat of liability for late settlement of liabilities or of trying to force unfairly long payment deadlines. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u425	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u426	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question as to whether it is really necessary for entrepreneurs to report to the UOKiK, which apply payment deadlines. This is, in fact, a further obligation on entrepreneurs. In the case of larger entrepreneurs, this may involve hiring more people. I do not mind increasing employment in the private sector, but it would be good for newly employed people to do something constructive, not only to fill in new tables, send some reports to the UOKiK so that, in fact, at the end of the year, the president of the OOKiK or the director of the relevant department can leave, show tables and say: according to the data that we have obtained from entrepreneurs, the average payment deadline used in the Polish economy is so much and so much. I think that's a bit of an exaggeration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u427	Another question. Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! As a former entrepreneur, I can say that today many entrepreneurs are happy that we are working on this law, and certainly those who often use the free form of credit for their business rather than using the bank's credit. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that two cases of fraud protection are introduced in this law: firstly, the enforcement of undue claims in the application of an order procedure for claims not exceeding 75 000. zł, and secondly - withdrawal from the contract as a result of an incorrect payment deadline. The solutions are well founded, although there are critics who believe that they are somewhat risky, especially in relation to debtors operating micro- and small enterprises. In the latter case, the due date of the claim may be almost immediately upon termination, within 3 working days. I would very much ask the Minister to dispel these criticisms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u429	Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u430	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm gonna get back to these hospitals because I'm running out of time. I know it's not your decision or your department, but what's next with these hospitals? In order to solve the problem of hospitals, we would solve many problems without any analysis and additional costs, and today the debt of hospitals is growing. What's the real debt? If the Minister has that knowledge, we would ask... The second issue concerns local governments. We also have huge debt in local governments, which also translates into many benefits and creates quite large congestion. Some even burden local governments with public debt. I met with such an interpretation that local governments are the reason that the debt of the state, the public debt of the state, is increasing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And another third question: How many more people will need to be employed in the state administration to make this law work? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u431	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u432	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I used to think about barriers to the development of entrepreneurship, and I found this opinion about the problem of payment congestion. Namely, the National Chamber of Tax Advisers claimed that the key to solving this problem was to counteract the causes of this phenomenon, not to mitigate its consequences. Here I ask the Minister and the whole department of entrepreneurship and technology, to all those who prepared this bill: Did you have the trouble to analyse the causes of this phenomenon? This may be very interesting because the Freedom of Activity Act has been established. [[♪ The bell ♪]] economic, various companies appeared on the market, which simply did not play fair. I'd like to know if it's just a matter of questioning for the courts, or if there's a reason for all these problems. One more question. Have there been studies on what percentage of entrepreneurs do not respect ethical principles in business? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u433	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u434	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The first question concerns the UOKiK and its penalties. Let's imagine that the economy is really not doing so well, the domino effect is already going around, which is company A owes company B, company B - company C, company C - company D, company D - company E, and company E - again company A. Who, and according to what criteria, will determine who in this carousel is an honest entrepreneur and who is dishonest? Who doesn't pay because they just can't and who doesn't pay because they don't want to? The criteria are important here. The second question concerns this unfortunate register, which will require additional jobs and on the side of entrepreneurs, and on the side of the government administration. What's that for? What's that gonna do? What effect is added? That's one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And secondly, what effect is added when it comes to the transparency of this register? I don't get it at all. Question three. Do you know who cared about this bill being processed at night? Traditionally in this term - at night. Thank you very much. [[Coincidence, pure coincidence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u435	Thank you very much. The answer to these and earlier questions will be the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mr Marek Niebżak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u436	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Let me answer the last question first. Let me put it this way: I didn't care, but I was here in the morning and during the day and I'm here in the evening. However, it is always an honor to stand before the High House. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] I don't think it's every... And it is an even greater privilege to sit here, because you are here by the will of your constituents. What can you say? Service isn't the best man. I'll try to keep it within the project limits, because I'll honestly admit that for example. As far as hospital records are concerned, I don't have them here, I can't do that. answer questions about the level of debt. On the other hand, sticking to the boundaries of the project, I will say that the EU directive I mentioned is sometimes said: the late payment directive, which concerns precisely these deadlines, which has been in force in Poland for several years - it is from 2011 - sets regulations for hospitals, in general to health care units. That's where 60 days are indicated as the due date. We have never - not when the directive was implemented, a few years ago or now - changed this. These are simply provisions that result from the EU Directive. After all, we cannot regulate this differently at national level. This is simply a transposition in this area, so to speak, a jot into the yot of EU legislation. In our area - because here too the Member asked about these hospitals - in this respect, which is our responsibility, in the sense of: national, we tried in this project, if I could use such a word, not to make the situation of medicinal units worse, e.g. they are not affected by an increase in interest on late claims, realizing that this is simply a complex situation. That's to some extent. it is an EU directive, and to the extent that it was up to us, we have tried not to make the situation worse. Now I'm gonna answer the question about KAS. It is not a secret, because it can be checked on the RCL website or in the Green Paper, that we have also considered such a solution, so that we will be taking over the National Tax Administration here. In the course of the work on the bill, the position that the UOKiK should do so prevailed. I think the reasons are that the President of the UOKiK already has a similar competence in the field of so-called. contract advantage, has some experience in analysing such contracts, in imposing penalties, so this is a related, similar area, sometimes related to similar entities using certain unfair practices. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Act also provides for a mechanism for the President of the OKiK to obtain information from the KAS. And here's a little bit of an answer to that question, who's gonna check it out. Thanks to the fact that in the Ministry of Finance we have data analytics with JPK, above all, although not only, these data are used not only to make tax controls less effective, but also more efficient - and so, we have data from the last few years. They'll also be used here. Based on this data, we are now able to identify entities that generate congestion. Besides, the rules simply exclude the possibility of punishing someone who doesn't pay because they didn't pay him. We are absolutely aware that such an embolism sometimes resembles a traffic jam, aren't we? That there's a lot of cars or a lot of entrepreneurs in it, he's standing in front of him, he's not paying because he's not paid. And here this penalty mechanism is designed so that it does not allow the President to punish such an entity. But first of all, it should also be remembered that in general all of this law these solutions are written primarily for asymmetric transactions. And that is why this project, as you will see, I do not know, RDS or consensus, consultation, gained the support of a strong majority of business organizations in Poland. So it's not a project that entrepreneurs treated as anti-entrepreneurial. On the other hand, I do not hide that he did not gain the support, say these two - from memory - maybe three such organisations, which to a large extent represent the interests of large operators, often large commercial networks, which perceive which they have, say, their payment strategies. As far as these reports are concerned, first of all, I will emphasise that these reports on payment practices, modelled on the British solution, apply only to large companies. A large company is one that has a turnover of over EUR 50 million per year. Costs according to our estimates, costs... And such companies, of course, conduct very advanced accounting, etc. The cost of pulling such data before parentheses, so to speak, we estimate at several thousand zlotys, and it is a one-time cost, and then such reports will just be generated by clicking. This really is not for big entrepreneurs - I repeat: large entrepreneurs within the meaning of business law or within the meaning of EU law - a heavy burden. And what's the benefit of that? For me, it would be a discovery that when I go to the UK, I can see how every big company pays. And some of them were interesting to me, because there were companies that seemed very reputable to me, but it turns out they're just applying long deadlines, and I'd say I don't necessarily want to be a contractor for such companies. But there are also companies that have very good deadlines, and then I also know as a smaller entrepreneur that, for example. it is worth entering into contractual relations with such an entity, because it simply treats its counterparties fairly. Okay, another question like that about payment orders, that's where it came from. There was this solution at the stage of the project. He is not presently represented here in the project, which means there is no longer this accelerated path for payment orders, it is the one concerning security. And that is also one of the arguments that the Member put forward here, so that it is not to overstep. And here's the difficulty of this project. I'm just admitting that there's so much balance here all the time. On the one hand, we want to strengthen the creditor, especially the small creditor in relation to the large debtor, but on the other hand we realise that it cannot be overtaken so that it does not end in harm, so to speak, the debtor. Retiring. There was a withdrawal question here, too. First of all, I would like to stress that such a right - I do not hide that extraordinary - to such a withdrawal is possible only in situations where we have a term of contract, which is grossly dishonest and which is more than 120 days or longer, so these are really extreme situations. On the other hand, as far as this effect is concerned, here too, the Member asked whether it is immediately, whether it is 3 days, then in the act - we also established it in the course of the work with RCL, or the Government Legislative Centre - it was set at 7 days. So that it seems to me that this is not - in very exceptional situations, I repeat - such a very harmful term, this duty within 7 days. And I think it's reasonable... I repeat, however, that in a rather extreme situation in which we place the creditor, it is supposed to strengthen him a little, because there is clearly a need here. The creditor is in many situations in the Polish legal system in a difficult situation. So once again, I stress: penalties will not affect those who do not pay, because they themselves did not pay, on the contrary, an analyst based on data, as well as simply the proceedings carried out by the President of the OMC will allow to identify those entities who deliberately apply a strategy. And this strategy is to extort a buyer's loan. This project isn't written to, I don't know, cut out a buyer's loan. A buyer's credit, if it's fair, i.e. on both sides, the two sides want it, this is a very good solution. This is a very good solution that makes it easier for companies that have liquidity problems. However, we have a phenomenon, investigating the causes of congestion - and I would say that this situation is very clear - that there are entities using their contractual advantage on a given market or in a given situation and forcing this buyer loan. And no one can convince me that it is such that a very large entity must be credited by a whole bunch of its small suppliers. It is usually the big ones who borrow money small, and not the small ones need to borrow money large. So that we are dealing with such a phenomenon in the market and, of course, we need to limit it in a reasonable, rational way. I would also like to emphasise - I have already said this in my first speech, but I will return to the fact - that there is really no solution in this project - from those fundamental, most important - that we would not see in other countries, countries like the UK, Ireland, France, the Netherlands, often in much more developed economies than ours, where this problem of congestion also occurs and where you also see the need for intervention. And there is also a thought that appeared in the statement by the Member who said that here on the basis of how serious the situation with congestion is, you can see the situation of Poland. I would say this: the figures about the economy are quite clear - we have a good economic situation. Of course, there are several companies that publish such indicators concerning payment congestion in Poland. If you look at these indicators, they have unfortunately been very bad for many years. For years. And they're actually correlated with the economic situation, which is when it's better, it's a little better when it's worse, it's a little worse, but I'd say that's the argument for intervention, since we're having such a good economic situation, and there's still problems with congestion, let's just say it's going to get worse. Besides, all you have to do is look at historical data. That's the problem in Poland. I think it's a multi-cause. I wouldn't take the task of telling you honestly, with my hand on my heart, what are all the possible causes of congestion. I think there's a lot of them. I think there are just liquidity problems. This is a strategy of some companies, especially large ones, which simply abuse their position. But I think there are often cultural or local issues. I also agree that sometimes these are problems, I would say, as you said, ethically. And I also realize that we are not able to solve all these problems by one law, and probably even by any law. But let us try to rationally limit what seems possible, for example by looking at examples from other countries where these solutions work and produce results. I'm looking so fast at my notes, or didn't I miss a question? As far as I'm concerned, I've been able to answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u437	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The regulations presented will have a significant impact on the current relationship between business partners. They will certainly in many cases protect counterparties from extended payment deadlines for liquidity loss invoices. However, the position of a large company, e.g. The hypermarket network, it's too strong for a small manufacturer. What if, after the legislation is introduced, large stores are otherwise owned by goods, e.g. broker sales, and invoices, i.e. the obligation to pay, will be issued only after the sale of the whole lot?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u439	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to limit the payment congestion contained in print No 3475 to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 12 June this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. As there are no further notifications, the list that has been drawn up is closed. And begins Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u440	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In less than 3 hours, a group of outstanding students, the winners of the first 5th Gorlicka Patriotic Song Competition and the winners of the two historical competitions will leave Gorlice for a trip to Warsaw. The historical competition for middle school students, and now the students of the last classes of primary schools - the Constitution on 3 May - times of Stanisławowski, which I have organised for 11 years, reminds young people of important events from the end of the 18th century. The Constitution adopted on 3 May 1791, i.e. The law governing the legal system of the Republic of Poland of both Nations was the first in Europe and the second in the world written law of this kind. This constitution was an attempt to radically heal the state and eliminate the influence of foreign powers. The result was a war in defence of the Constitution and unfortunately further partitions. Despite the partitions, the memory of the latter in the history of the world of the written national constitution has helped to sustain Polish aspirations for independence and the creation of a just society. Supporters of the Constitution on 3 May considered that the state and its independent existence were an overriding good, which also depended on the existence of citizens' freedom. At this point I would like to thank the Polish Sejm Marshal Mr Mark Kuchciński for taking part in the competition on 3 May - Stanisławowski's times with an honorary patronage and for funding great prizes for the first three winners. The historical competition for secondary schools, in turn, refers every year to important anniversaries. This year, the title of "Freedom" must be constantly acquired. Priests in the service of God, the Church and Homeland against the background of Polish history from 1 September 1939 until 2 April 2005. The theme referred to the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence and to the important anniversaries of this year, i.e. 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, 70th anniversary of the murder of Fr. Władysław Gurgach, 35th anniversary of the murder of Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko and celebrated just 10 days ago the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of the Polish Pope to his homeland. A group of winners of three of these competitions together with their guardians, as I mentioned, are going to Warsaw to spend 2 days visiting important places in our capital. As every year young people will visit Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I am delighted that young people will have the opportunity to learn about the place where our country's political life is taking place, and will be able to see what the work of Members of the Polish Parliament looks like. I also hope that they will be able to meet Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland Mr Marek Kuchciński. In addition, this year young people will also visit, among others. Museum of Warsaw Postania, Military Cemetery in Powązki and Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic. In the tour plan there are also places connected with culture such as: National Theatre, but young people will also visit, among others. Royal Castle. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all those who join these three competitions every year. I would like to thank the Institute of National Remembrance and all the co-organizers. My special thanks to Mrs Barbara Nowak, Małopolska school curator. I would also like to thank my colleagues and employees, led by Ms Aneta Galas-Waląg and Katarzyna Zielińska, for their great work. I thank schools from all over Małopolska whose students take part in these competitions. I would also like to mention the winners and congratulate them. And so the winners of the competition - the Constitution of May 3 - Stanisławowskie's times - were: First place - the team consisting of: Małgorzata Kuzera, Gabriel Rola and Emilia Jarzęb from the Primary School. Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński in Siedlce. Second place - a team from the primary school. Adam Mickiewicz in Szczucin composed of Kinga Dzięgiel, Alicja Nowak and Łukasz Stojek. Third place - Katarzyna Mularska, Justyna Stadnicka and Maximilian Hala from the School and Training Team in White Low. The fourth place with 225 points fell to an ex aequo team from the primary school. John Paul II in Korzenna, composed of Michał Bajerski, Antoni Kois and Kacper Łukasik and the team from the Municipal Team No. Heroes of Gorlicka Land in Gorlice composed of Kacper Rak, Emilia Augustine and Zuzanna Cisowska. The winners of this year's high school students were: 1st place - Natalia Drożdż, Magdalena Majewska and Józef Koterla from the High School. Maria Skłodowska Curie in Stary Sącz, 2nd place -a team from the High School of General Education. Stanisława Wyspiański in Biecz composed of: Agata Szura, Katarzyna Guzik, Piotr Koszyk, 3rd place - ex aequo [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the number of 75 points won a team from the High School that taught them. Jan Długosz in Nowy Sącz composed of: Marek Grela, Marcin Gajda and Bartłomiej Uzar and the team from the School Complex No. 1 im. Ignacy Łukasiewicz in Gorlice in composition: Artur Wierzbicki, Marcin Dyląg, Kamila Lewandowska, 4th place for 1st High School. Marcin Kromera in Gorlice won the team in the composition: Jakub Skwarczewski, Dawid Lorczyk and Dominik Kaminski, winning 65 points, and 5th place after the oral period was won by Dominika Potoczek, Adela Wójcicka and Kordian Bielak from the General Education School Complex No. 2 in Nowy Sącz. Thank you and congratulations to all the leaders of the winning teams for their participation, for preparing young people and thank you for letting me host them tomorrow in Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u441	Mr Dariusz Bąk, the Law and Justice, will make another parliamentary statement. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u442	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The measure of change in our homeland may be that in the prison on Rakowiecka, in Mokotów, for more than 2 years the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic has been organized. In this heavy prison there was a lot of evil experienced by true Poles. Both during World War II and after the war, especially after the war, Polish patriots were murdered by Communists. Yesterday, we attended an unusual ceremony at the museum of cursed soldiers, where more than 200 people gathered from all over the country to commemorate the memory of the founders and leaders of the Polish Szturmówka Chłopska sentenced by the Military District Court in Warsaw for the death penalty in 1953: Stefan Pietrusinski ps. Rysiek, who was executed in prison in Mokotów on 15 April 1953, Henryk Bąka ps. Storm, Wenceslas, young ladies of the dog. Sten, Herman Dąbrowski ps. Tom. The first point of the ceremony was the Holy Mass celebrated by the director of Radio Maryj Tadeusz Rydzyk's father's father. This took place in scenery X of the pavilion, where the sentenced to death were murdered, tortured in cells. There was an altar, under these prison conditions, because there are still prison conditions, there are original stairs and an image of Our Lady of Częstochowa. At this image of Our Lady of Czestochowa there was an altar and the Holy Mass was celebrated. The scenery's amazing. Everyone's got the climate of this situation. We imagined real patriots being murdered. There are 331 names of people who were executed there. After the Holy Mass were read the commemorative letters sent by President Andrzej Duda, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Marshal Marek Kuchciński, Marshal of the Senate you represented Professor Jan Żaryn. They all appreciated all the murdered there, especially those who were about to be fixed on the memory board, these four just read by me. Then, with the participation of the Polish Army, the gathered priests headed by the father of Director Tadeusz Rydzyk, there was an unveiling and consecration of the plaque opposite the wall of executions, where there are still traces of bullets that killed lost patriots there. The ceremony was attended by people from the Polish village, because these four people, who were commemorated on the board, were representatives, leaders of the Polish Chłopska Storm Walk, an organization founded by young people of the Polish village, working directly on the role and education. In the peak period, this organization counted over 500 people. That's what historians say. It was in the '50s of the previous century. We honoured the memory of the heroes of the Polish village, who in the times of communist terror in Poland uncompromisingly fought for independence of the Polish state, fighting voluntarily in the underground organization of Poland Szturmówka Chłopska. They started a new wave that led us to regain independence in our homeland. Professor Jan Szyszko and Andrzej Melak were in the organizational committee of this ceremony. Special thanks are sent to the director of the museum of Mr Jack Pawłowicz and the entire team, which is currently organizing [[♪ The bell ♪]] The museum of soldiers cursed. Poland has great merits for regaining independence and we pay tribute to the inhabitants of the Polish village for having engaged in an uncompromising struggle to regain full independence and sovereignty in our homeland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u443	Thank you. A final statement today will be made by Mr Aleksander Anczynski, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u444	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 6 June 1999 in Pelplina, the capital of the diocese of Pelplina, my diocese, Holy Mass was celebrated by Holy Father John Paul II. It was a very important event for the diocese of Ppellin, the first and unfortunately last visit of our great compatriot in the diocese. Over 300,000. pilgrims from all over Poland participated in the Eucharist. Several thousand inhabitants of the Chojnice district went to Pelplin to participate in the sacrifice of the Holy Mass. The clergy of the Chojnic decanate and the Rite decanate were in concelebration. I was then director of the Second High School in Chojnice. Together with the students and teachers, two coaches went to Pelplin to meet Pope Polak. On Sunday, June 6, following the solemn Mass celebrated on the Bishop's Hill in Pelplina, Chojnice gave the Holy Father a diploma of honorary citizen of the city. The city council of Chojnice gave him the title of honorary citizen a year earlier - in June 1998 councillors focused on the Election Action Solidarity prepared a resolution on this matter. Today, 20 years have passed since events that are still in the memory of their participants. It was then that the words were said: Blessed are those who listen to the word of God and keep them, which the pope directed to the believers. The Pope also mentioned the sacrifice of those who preached the word of God, over 300 priests from the area of the diocese of Ppellin, who were murdered by the Germans during the Nazi occupation just because they were Polish clergymen. These tragic events were reminded to the faithful, not to forget that from their mouths our generation listened to the word of God and through their sacrifice experienced and experienced his power, so that we might remember this historical sowing of words and testimony. During the homily there were also words that referred to a passage of the Gospel about building a house on a rock. How do you build a house like this? How can we survive the pressure of the elements? Today we hear the answer to these fundamental questions of faith. The basis for Christian building lies in listening to Christ's words and fulfilling them. It's a signpost for all of us. After 20 years the words of John Paul II addressed to the faithful during the homily on June 6, 1999 in Pelplin are still valid. Let us remember the message of the greatest Poles, St. John Paul II, an honorary citizen of my beloved Chojnice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-12-sejm-82-1.u445	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I am ordering an adjournment until tomorrow, which is until 13 June 2019, until 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 21]]
