ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. To the secretaries of today's proceedings, I will appoint Monika Wielichowska, Arkadiusz Marchewka, Agata Borowiec and Waldemar Buda. The first part of the session will be Mr Monika Wielichowska and Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Arkadiusz Carrot. The Secretary shall present the communications. I'm asking you to read them.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Economics and Development together with the National Defence Commission - h.m. 10, - Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Health-- hour. 11, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 15, - to Culture and Media Affairs - hour. 15, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 3.30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Health-- hour. 16.15. I would like to inform you that today there will also be meetings of the following parliamentary teams: - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Oncology and Parliamentary Group for Public Health - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Team - break up with plastic - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: development of poultry as a strategic branch of the Polish economy - h. 13, - Parliamentary Group for the Assessment of the Social and Economic Situation in the Areas of the PGR - hour 15, - Parliamentary Team for the Rights of Life - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 4:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Public Debates - 3 p.m. 17. The Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families invites you to a conference entitled: The message of freedom of John Paul II - on the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage to Poland on Saturday, 18 May at 3 p.m. 10 in the column room. The conference will be preceded by a Holy Mass in the Seym Chapel at 3 p.m. 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for reading the memo. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws, - amending the Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices and certain other laws. The reports shall be in prints No 3462 and No 3463 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. We proceed with the first question. The question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk and Mr Andrzej Gawron from the Law and Justice Club on sources of funding for photovoltaics - to the Minister for the Environment. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mr Sławomir Mazurek will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Competition creates good solutions, including solutions on sources of funding for photovoltaics. In the new offer of PKO BP on eco-loan interest rate - RRSO - is 5.47%. The APRC in the Bank's Environmental Protection offer so far amounted to 9.27%. However, in response to the new PKO BP product, the Bank of Environment decided to reduce the cost of its credit for photovoltaics to 4.92%. Such a loan with funding up to 75 thousand. PLN for up to 10 years is currently included in the offer of the Bank for Environmental Protection. And here I have a question to the Minister: What is the maximum cost of qualified purchase and installation of home photovoltaic installations and can the costs of investments in photovoltaic installations financed from commercial loans as well as from loans offered under the "Clean Air" scheme be taken into account in the tax relief of thermomodernisation? I would also like to stress that those interested in obtaining funding for a home photovoltaic installation can also benefit from the preferential loan offered under the Government's Clean Air programme by submitting a proposal in the relevant voivodship environmental and water management fund for this purpose. The "Clean Air' loan provided for a home photovoltaic installation may cover up to 100% of the eligible costs and may be granted for a maximum period of 180 months. Minister, I would like to ask you for more detailed information on this issue, because, as is apparent from both the press reports and the statements at meetings with experts, such good actions [[♪ The bell ♪]] for financing photovoltaics have happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u5	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Dear young friends gathered here and observing our deliberations! From this point of view, it is worth noting one important point. I will talk about the "Clean Air" programme and the issues related to this programme, which is a tool for implementing the country's environmental policy, which reflects the words of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in this Chamber about the civilization challenge of improving air quality. So in installations of renewable energy sources, photovoltaics we see this potential. The Clean Air programme, implemented by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in cooperation with the voivodship funds, is a priority programme, is one of the instruments available on the market to enable co-owners, owners of single-family buildings to obtain funding for the use of renewable energy sources, photovoltaic micro-installations. Possible funding is 30,000. zł, with the cost of qualified installations per unit of peak power of up to 6 000. zł. The condition for obtaining funding is the replacement of the existing old generation heat source for new, programme-compliant, or possession, purchase of a source that meets the requirements of the "Clean Air' programme. Let me remind you that this is an exchange, but also a connection to a city heating network or a gas network. The costs of the installation service of photovoltaic micro-installations and fittings are financed under the scheme in the form of a low-interest loan granted by the voivodship's environmental and water management fund, because this fund is the institution which in each voivodship carries out such a mission. The loan may be granted for a maximum period of 180 months, with a 12-month penalty in the repayment of the capital. The interest rate on the loan is variable and is WIBOR 12M plus 70 basis points, not less than 2% per year. The current interest rate is 2,57%. In addition, the beneficiary, the taxable person who made such an investment from the loan received from the voivodship fund, will be entitled to deduct the full amount of expenditure under the thermomodernisation relief. And here are the rules laid down in the Act of 9 November 2018 amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. It should be noted that the possibility of obtaining funding for the purchase and installation of a photovoltaic installation complements the possibility of obtaining funding for the purchase of a new heat source and the thermomodernisation of single-family homes co-financed in the form of grants, preferential loans under the Clean Air programme. It is worth mentioning that the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management programme has been very interesting since the start of its launch, i.e. since September 2018. By 10 May more than 51 thousand were submitted throughout Poland. applications for funding for an amount exceeding PLN 1 billion. The Management Boards of the voivodship funds have adopted 12 745 resolutions on the granting of funding for the amount of PLN 221 million and 8797 grant agreements have already been concluded for the amount of PLN 139 million. Only during the week between 3 and 10 May, the number of financing contracts concluded increased by more than 1200 and the value of the grant by about PLN 24 million. At the same time, the Minister of Environment notes with interest the involvement of the Environmental Protection Bank, one of the important pillars of environmental financing in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bank of the Environment, alongside the national environmental fund and the voivodship environmental funds, has an important institutional role to support efforts to improve the quality of the environment. And we note this involvement of the bank in financing the use of photovoltaic installations, in particular the increasingly favourable conditions for such funding. Such activities enrich the financial offer available on the market and at the same time allow it to be expected to be of interest to an increasing number of customers, which will translate into further projects contributing to improving air quality. At the same time, using these micro-installations, with this energy, which is closest to us, we also care about the nearest environment, and each such decision affects not only the improvement of air quality, but also the state of the environment in our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u7	Thank you. The additional question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome. And I ask the Minister to remain on the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would just like to ask you to supplement this information - maybe this is already the case. You said it's been filed since September over 50,000. these conclusions. There's a possibility. It's about funding, it's about subsidies, it's about the heat exchange. But as far as photovoltaics are concerned, it is an opportunity to take a cheap loan to finance photovoltaic installations. Does the Ministry already have information on the percentage of these applications? Is it already calculated, how many of these micro-credit applications are there, and how much is it about the heat exchange? I would also like to ask about the possibility of cooperation with local authorities in terms of photovoltaics, but also about the Clean Air programme. We know that voivodship environmental funds accept proposals, but maybe just because the program is so wide, it can be improved in cooperation with local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u9	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for this question, because it also affects the program "Clean air" at its foundation, i.e. The assumption that this cooperation between individuals interested in improving the quality of the environment in Poland will be very important. Within more than 2,000. meetings that have been held since September throughout Poland with residents of smaller and larger cities, towns and villages, we talked about these problems. We also met with local government officials who declared their willingness to cooperate. It can be said that a lot of resources for this type of environmental action, for improving air quality was within the framework of the RPO. They were not fully used, for various reasons, and therefore also the need to implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union for the period up to 2015. This sentence is being executed, and it shows that it has not been done as much as possible and that it has not been used in full. Therefore, it is necessary to launch the "Clean Air' programme in order to direct such a tool directly to the owners of single-family homes. Of course, the national environmental fund looks more broadly, looks at the needs of the system heat, heating, which concerns not only single-family homes, but also housing communities and cooperatives, which are related to solving the problem of air quality in cities. The National Environment Fund is launching a pilot programme, but we are also ready for cooperation. Such declarations of cooperation on the part of local governments are falling. Some local authorities even want to add Clean Air to the program to increase its absorption and interest, and in this spirit we will definitely cooperate. The Clean Air programme is planned for 10 years to reach 4 million farms, so it is important for us to also develop this programme. The point is that he should evolve in such a way that it is fully realized, once again, from this point on, the words of the Prime Minister that we must take this civilization challenge for the benefit of future generations in an efficient and efficient manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u11	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by the Members of Ireneusz Odna and Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice, on property claims for property lost during World War II by Polish citizens of the Jewish nationality in Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will answer Mr Piotr Wawrzyk. Please, the first question - Mr Ireneusz Gains.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u12	Dear Marshal! Minister! Last year, the United States Congress adopted Law 447, so-called. JUST Act, which aims to inventory claims on property free of charge left in Poland as a result of the Holocaust of Polish citizens of the Jewish nationality. This case caused a number of protests in Polish society, also heated by some political environments. In addition, the statements of prominent representatives of the US administration, including the Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, who called, I quote, for Polish colleagues to make progress on the comprehensive legislation on the restitution of private property for people who lost their property in the Holocaust era, raise reasonable uncertainty and concern. My question is: What are the official actions of the Polish government, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to counteract possible claims - and the effectiveness of these claims - reported to the Polish government, public institutions, as well as individuals in Poland? The statements by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the President of the governing party Jarosław Kaczyński strongly deny any justification for the claims, but I would like to ask what position the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has and what official actions he intends to take both in the country and in the international arena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u13	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u14	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, let me point out that the issue raised by your fellow Members has indeed aroused a lot of emotions in recent times, which obscure some legal arguments concerning the regulation of property matters after World War II and the actions of the communist regime. These emotions have a context both external and internal. The role of my office in this situation is to present in the most objective manner and based on the correct legal basis the arguments, circumstances and facts relating to this case. I would like to make it clear that we have no moral right to assess the scale of suffering. All in the face of beastly murder, extermination, destruction and attempts to destroy the nation are equal. During World War II about 6 million Poles were killed, half of which were Polish citizens of the Jewish nationality. Similarly, from the legal side, it cannot be argued that some should be treated in a special way and others should benefit from generally available legal means. They were all equally Polish citizens and should use the same legal procedures and instruments as such. Using a different kind of approach would simply be against the constitution. This assumption sets out and sets out our understanding of the issues of the regulation of property aspects and the assessment of expectations expressed by certain governments and the environment. I would therefore like to make it clear that the Government of the Republic of Poland, and even more so the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, does not conduct and intends to conduct with any other government any, I stress: no, negotiations on any aspects of restitution or claims in respect of property or specific aspects related to it. I would stress that none. On the other hand, we have voices in public debate both in Poland and abroad. The Polish party therefore conducts balanced and tailor-made actions aimed at reminding certain cardinal rights and presenting legal arguments. International law, I would like to point out, does not establish universal instruments or procedures relating to the restitution of private property, nor does it oblige States to adopt any specific legislation in this respect. What measures will be taken to satisfy property claims are the sovereign decisions of each State. At the same time, we would like to remind you that Poland has implemented as widely as possible legal instruments and procedures enabling the recovery of property or the receipt of compensation. The civil and administrative procedures provided for in the applicable provisions of our law ensure that the rights to lost property can be exercised by all persons entitled irrespective of their nationality or origin. Unfortunately, it seems that this fact has not yet successfully penetrated public awareness in other countries. We therefore provide the relevant information and statements of funds paid in this respect. It is also worth noting that Poland provided considerable money in the form of flat-rate compensation to thirteen countries from all over the world, including the United States, on its own initiative on the basis of its own initiative on the basis of the indemnification agreements concluded. Indemnisation contracts were executed by Poland on the day on which the flat-rate sums for compensation were transferred to these countries. I would like to remind you that, on the basis of the agreements concluded, a foreign party to the agreement was obliged to satisfy its citizens' claims on the basis of internal national legal procedures. In the case of the United States - and other countries with which such agreements have been concluded - the condition for seeking compensation was the fact that American citizenship was legitimised without interruption from the date of nationalisation, ownership or other acquisition of property until the date of entry into force of the agreement. It should be noted here that persons who have not yet had American citizenship at the time of taking over their property and are therefore not covered by the contract, regardless of their nationality, are entitled to claim recovery or compensation by the civil and administrative procedure mentioned above, which has been in force in Poland since the 1960s. Of course, the current foreign debate on restitution of the property of the victims of the Holocaust determines, among others. the so-called Member mentioned. The JUST Act, the JUST Act, adopted by the American Congress. This is an American internal act. In addition, it should be noted that the sole addressee is the Secretary of State of the United States, not the Government of any State, including Poland, because it is the Secretary of State that JUST requires the presentation of the report. [[♪ The bell ♪]] including an assessment of the activities carried out by other States in respect of the restitution of property. The report provided for by the JUST Act is based on the obligation for the executive authority to inform the legislative authority of the various aspects of foreign policy. The representatives of our government have repeatedly said in the media that the JUST Act is an internal American act and it is a misunderstanding to allow the thought that it could apply to other countries and their governments and impose any obligations on them. It is absolutely not that if the American Congress decides on the basis of the report that action is needed, it will be able to impose certain procedures on us, which will result in the return of property, compensation payments or the application of specific legal solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u15	Minister! Allow me to interrupt you. There will be an additional question, after which you will be able to finish. In this part, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for a significant extension of time, so that the Member will ask another question and in the second part you will be able to complete the answer. Remember, it's three minutes ahead of schedule.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Additional question. On the basis of public discussion, it may be felt that this matter concerns only Poland, but during and after World War II, this situation occurred in principle throughout the whole of the current European Union. I would therefore like to ask the question: Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have knowledge of how these problems are addressed in other European countries and examine and monitor these issues? By changing the subject, I would like to ask: Were we dealing with, even sometimes, situations when Polish citizens who lived abroad were deprived of their wealth? Could they possibly try to demand such a thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u17	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Maybe I can answer that question by using examples. Mr President, I answer the question. According to German law, both before and after World War II in the absence of heirs, the property became property of the Land where the heir lived at the time of death. According to French law, the inheritance is considered to be inheritable if no legal entity has its rights. In such a situation, the succession falls to a country which, without being the rightful heir, must apply to the court for recognition of ownership. A similar solution is foreseen throughout the United Kingdom except for the estates located in Cornwall and Lancaster County. On the basis of the prerogatives of the 14th century, the inheritance goes to the property of the Duke of Cornwall - the title is now given to the Duke of Wales - or to the Duke of Lancashire and traditionally transferred to charities. In the U.S. system, the issue of inheritable property is regulated at state level. Under the law, state authorities acquire property which is inheritable after the expiry of the period within which potential heirs may lodge claims - that is usually between 5 and 10 years. The 1990 Uniform Probate Code provides a starting point for a number of state laws, e.g. in the state of California, where, if no one claims in the five years that he has been in possession of his inheritance during that period, that property becomes the property of that state. In New York, the constitution of this state is governed by issues of inheritable property, to which a number of judgments also apply. According to the judgment in Johnson v Spicer, in the absence of heirs, ownership of property by law is transferred to the state of New York. The burden of proving the absence of heirs lies with the state authorities. However, in matters relating to non-inheritable property, this presumption may be overturned by demonstrating that, after careful search and investigation, the deceased could not conclude that the deceased had left any identifiable heirs. In Israeli law, in the absence of heirs, the property is transferred to the property of the State of Israel. He's run by a parole officer. As you can see, there is no difference in the Polish rules and regulations in force in countries such as the United States and Israel. However, the question arises as to why this topic has emerged now, why it is raised in such a way and what the effects may be. As I said before, there is no reason to negotiate. The existing Polish rules are sufficient. We just have an election campaign and this is one of the things some politicians pulled out of their hat to improve their election outcome. There's no legal problem. There wasn't, there isn't, and there won't be any negotiations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u19	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question that will be asked by Members Józef Brynkus and Jarosław Sachajko. Question on secret negotiations with representatives of the United States and Israel regarding claims of Jewish organizations to property free of charge. The question is again addressed to the Foreign Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk will answer them. We begin with Mr Józef Brynkus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was a little surprised that, according to the script, we were the first to ask a question about this. And here, Minister, for political reasons, it was first allowed to speak to the Members of the Law and Justice who asked a very general question. You also responded in a general way. The problem is very complex. After the words of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, the Jewish community stated that they had already paid enough to the Jews... At the moment when Schröder said: we have paid enough Jews for their lost property, for the damage we did to them during World War II, the Jewish environments turned their claims towards Poland. Recently, they have been able to obtain support in the form of the JUST Act, which was adopted in the United States as Act 447. Minister! It's not like this law doesn't give the Jewish community the right to claim. In this regard, the head of the World Organization for Jewish Property Restitution, who stated that it was a strong support for those who survived the Holocaust and now seek justice. Unfortunately, Polish legislation has also been well prepared on the recognition of unjustified Jewish claims. According to an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure introduced in 2009, judgments of foreign courts given in civil matters are recognised by law in the territory of Poland. The Polish government, by the mouth of its representatives, after the adoption of the JUST Act, assured that it was a law that did not apply in Poland. But in light of various facts, for example. The intensity of the Jewish community's activities, so it can indeed be. Poland does not protect against unauthorised Jewish demands from the 1960 agreement either, because it concerns quite [[♪ The bell ♪]] other issues. You know that. Therefore, we demand from the Polish government an explanation of what talks are taking place with the Israeli party on the unlawful Jewish claims on the property without inheritance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u21	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u22	Dear Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat what I have just said, Mr President: the Government has not led, does not negotiate on this matter and, as long as there is a Government of Law and Justice, such negotiations will not be conducted. Please do not mislead the public by repeating the information circulating on the Internet and giving them public status through a discussion in the Sejm. There were no such negotiations, there is no negotiations, and there will not be, as I repeat, as long as there is a government of law and justice. The subject is closed. In this respect, as I said, there is no room for negotiation. There are laws in Poland that have been in force for many years, and within these limits we will be moving. There is no room for negotiation on this subject. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u23	And then there's the extra question... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: I'm sorry if I can still... Please. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: On the other hand, as far as the context is concerned, of course you are right, there are voices from Jewish backgrounds. I would just like to point out that, as I said - perhaps you have read the JUST Act - the addressee is not the non-governmental environment, and the American Government, the Secretary of State. For us, the position of the United States government confirmed by recent statements by the State Department and the Ambassador is valid. This document does not apply to Poland, it is an internal American act, so please do not say that this results in any obligations or claims which may be directed to Poland on this basis. It's just a political game. It's just about what? For some Poles to become discouraged from the rule of law and justice, not go to elections or go to elections and vote for those who claim that there is a problem, while there is no problem. Let us not be deceived by these unnecessary, duped problems. If someone thinks that these actions that you are talking about should not be implemented, then the only real guarantee is to extend the rule of law and justice, [[Game in the O.R.]] Because only this government guarantees that this kind of action will not be... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Minister, this is not a campaign rally. Therefore, please limit yourself to such an area of expression, or I will cut you off. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You are the Minister of the Polish Government, not...]] Wait on the bench for... [[That's the difference. You are the Minister of the Polish Government.]] Mr President, allow me to hold a sitting. [[Of course.]] The Minister has already heard my comment. You don't have to do it again. Wait, Minister, in government benches... [[But it really upset me.]] ...until the Member asks... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[But what do you do?]] Ladies and gentlemen, please sit in the benches, calm down, let me hold a sitting. Mr President, don't wave your hand at me and scream at me. Have a seat. Please sit on the bench. [[You're breaking the rules right now.]] [[Give it up for the marshal.]] Minister, please sit down... [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] Have a seat... Ladies and gentlemen... Minister, please sit down... [[The Minister has time, tell me.]] ...in the government jury. [[Voice from the room: What's that supposed to mean?]] And the Member will ask an additional question. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, please calm down. [[But I'm saying what I'm saying. Write that down in the minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: But please calm down.]] [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u24	Minister! The Minister asks why this issue is being raised now. Maybe it's 'cause it's like... 2 days ago, the opinion-making newspaper "Jerusalem Post" wrote that talks between the Israeli Government and the Polish Government have been ongoing for 3 years on restitution of property without a fall. Why? Because the Israeli Ministry of Social Equality in its official communication states that restitution is important and unprecedented. He continues: Neither political nor anti-Semitic elements will stop us from fulfilling this important moral obligation to ensure Israel's social equality. And continue: Why? Because you've taken down the bill we've prepared. And now I ask: what is the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the bill we have tabled that would clearly close the case of free property and settle it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to both the JUST Act 447 and these various kinds of statements? Why do you continue to conflict with society, on the one hand, they say that they do not talk, and on the other hand, Mr Michalkiewicz's memo reveals that you spoke with the United States, and in this memo it says that there will be no pressure this year? So are we talking or not? Is this memo real or isn't it real? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u25	I ask you, Minister, to answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u26	I answer precisely, precisely, only the question asked: proof that such negotiations were not, are not and will not be conducted is a matter of the last days when we had a change in the composition of the Israeli delegation suggesting that this could be a discussion on this subject. As a result, talks with this delegation have been cancelled. We did not agree to the discussions even in the composition suggesting that the Israeli side could take up the subject. If we are talking about the memo that you have mentioned, please pay attention, exactly how the passage that you have said is formulated there. You quoted the speech of the representative of the American party, not the representative of the Polish party. It clearly states that this is the sentence of the American side, and this is not the opinion formulated by the representative of the Polish side. Therefore, please do not suggest that there are some negotiations that may be taken after the parliamentary elections, because in this memo it clearly states that it was only a suggestion of the American side, not a consent from the Polish side for this kind of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u27	Everything? Thank you very much. We're going through...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u28	I'm sorry, but there was a note, Marshal. And I asked what your position was about this draft law, which Kukiz put forward 15, concerning the closure of the problem of non-fall-free property.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u29	Will the Minister answer that part again? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u30	The official position of the government on this project is, of course, not yet available, but I will tell you, Mr President, as a lawyer. I do not think that it is possible, from the point of view of the equality of citizens towards the law and equality of access to justice, to adopt your solutions because they form two categories of citizens: those who have the right to court in the protection of property rights and those whom you wish to deprive. This is a non-constitutional provision on the one hand, and on the other hand it does not seem to me, but this is - I stress - my opinion as a lawyer, so that such a law may in effect be procedated. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u31	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Members of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats in the persons of Mr Jan Łopata and Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, and the question will be about the systematic reduction of funds for the development of agriculture - to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski will be answered by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, Mr Jan Slopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In recent days, we have received dramatic letters, dramatic information from scientific institutes, from breeding unions, and the concerns of rural communities raise plans by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to eliminate or reduce programmes to finance the development of agriculture. The letter you signed about the sign. F.ri. 443.18.2019, may form the basis for limiting or even eliminating research institutes under the Ministry of Agriculture. The information provided by the Minister has simply caused panic among directors and employees of scientific institutes, research institutes. The Minister sent letters to the three ministerial departments informing about the reduction of PLN 46 million, i.e. half of the funding for research programmes. As an example, I can give you a certain state of affairs at the Institute in Skierniewice, where correspondence has caused this state of panic, because reducing the funding for multi-annual programmes by half will even reduce the grant by 50%. and the need or necessity to fire scientific workers. In a similar way, we receive correspondence from breeding communities, which say that reducing the subsidy rates in question, reducing them from 89 800 000. PLN up to 40 million will result in liquidation, as they call it, of national breeding. So here are the questions we've asked. Will it be possible to implement the programmes under way and what the impact will be of reducing funding, and will there be exemptions for researchers if some of the workers are employed and financed by multiannual programmes? Basic question: What is it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] are the reasons for reducing the subsidy rates involved for the various operators carrying out agricultural tasks? What's with all the cuts? I mean, we're powerful. Last we heard, we even exceeded Sweden's income.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u33	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Thank you for that question. I take them very seriously as a sign of concern for the future of Polish agriculture, also scientific facilities, biological progress, and not only as such a little stamp, stereotypical, of course in democracy acceptable, rhetorical criticism. I also think that, as experienced Members also in the coalition governing for many years, you understand that there is no such simple sign of equality between budget expenditure on a given area, in this case on agriculture, and the state of agriculture. We have had numerous cases of significant resources spent on the functioning of agricultural institutions, and this does not necessarily translate into farmers' income. In your governments, employment in agricultural institutions has increased considerably, and whether this has translated into agricultural income during these 8 years, I do not think. I would like to say, by the way, that in 2018 employment in institutions dependent on the Ministry of Agriculture decreased by more than 2100 people. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I quote the French classic, let's go back to our rams, which is what you're interested in - financing science. This question can indeed be the basis for a deeper analysis of the state of Polish science, this agricultural science, its usefulness, responding to the current needs of farmers in every part of agriculture, also an analysis of whether this science adequately provides the tools resulting from changes: climate change, market changes, everything that at the moment in the world is in a sense a paradigm of development, even innovation, digitalisation. It should also be considered whether the funding model based solely on state centres - and we are talking about applied research, not basic research, but research, the results of which are to be applied directly in practice - is working. I have recently been to a well-known ladies and gentlemen, also, the University of Wageningen in the Netherlands, once within the Committee on Agriculture, where it was pointed out to finance very simple, that 50% These are market measures, obtained from entrepreneurs, from farmers, and then the State pays the other 50%. On the other hand, if there is no interest in the market, what is the certainty that State funding can actually be effective? Indeed, according to the article. 177 of the 2009 Public Finance Act, part of the expenditure was blocked. That's the case. Quite famous, all the resorts did, not just us. Perhaps this will be an element that will lead to reflection - including the heads of the institute, with which I am in frequent contact - on how to rationalise both the research and the functioning of these institutes. I would like to assure you that, as regards the financing of these actions which result from the common agricultural policy and from the observance, monitoring of the various parameters important for our and European agriculture, including responsibility to the European Union, there will be no savings in this respect. On the other hand, these actions that I have taken are intended to identify which research needs to be rationalised, which could be shifted to the following year and from which it can even give up to redirect the research potential to activities that will serve farmers better and solve the problems that farmers actually report and not necessarily to multiannual programmes where there is often no link between objectives and end effects. I would also like to say - very briefly, stating only the titles of the programmes - that research institutes can benefit from both national and foreign support measures, other than budgetary resources, although the funding bases are provided by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. It's funding the entire research base. It's all about Opus 17 and Prelude 17 and Mozart, in the NCBR, it's going to be a fast track, it's going to be Gospostrateg, it's going to be Era-Net Core Organic. With regard to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, we are talking about cooperation and action: Transfer of knowledge and information activities within the framework of the 2014-2020 RDPs. The resources are allocated to regional operational programmes, e.g. for Horizon 2020, including the BioEast programme, the programme dedicated to the countries of our part of Europe, which we have been very committed to, and which we will also pursue. There are funding opportunities, but we need to demonstrate some operationality, which I encourage you to do. However, believe me, these basic and most important things for agriculture will not be restricted in any way. As far as the financing of biological progress studies in animal production is concerned, yes, they are supported. However, as with this teaching, it is also necessary to consider their effectiveness and whether money goes to farmers. The question is whether this money goes to farmers who are actually engaged in breeding in an efficient way. Farmers themselves sometimes question the appropriateness of spending certain amounts. There's a conflict. Even in the Polish Federation of milk producers, I apologize, Polish Federation of Cattle Breeders and Milk Producers, these names are similar. There are cases to the D.A.'s office, which you probably know very well. I would like to remind you - Mr Sachajko is sitting here - that recently a group of members from the Kukiz club15 [[♪ The bell ♪]] Several times, also in interpellations, she requested clarification on the rules for funding and spending the federations. I would like - I am finishing, your marshal - to make sure that these small savings that I have put in place, and which we are still discussing, translate into the effectiveness of public spending and give farmers a greater impact on spending. It is about focusing all these actions on the real needs of Polish agriculture, not the institutions that remain of this money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u35	Please remain on the speaker, because the Member will ask an additional question from the parliamentary bench. Stay here, Minister. But before that question comes up, you'll allow me to welcome the young people of the School Complex No. 1 in. Fr. Piotr Skarga w Szamotułach, and I do so at the request of Mr Jakub Rutnicki. I wish you a successful stay in the Sejm, Warsaw, positive impressions. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Please, sir, ask for an additional question. About an hour. I'm gonna announce a 15-minute break, because I'm gonna call it an hour. The 10th Convention is convened. I'm asking you for an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u36	Minister! Of course, we can discuss the role of research institutes, institutes under the Ministry of Agriculture, their effectiveness and impact on agriculture. However, there is absolutely no compatibility, there is no logic in that the reduction of funds will improve the functioning of these institutes and transfer most of their achievements to practice. There is this institute of fruitation in Skierniewice, which you also spoke about, and which has great experience, a huge position on the market. Many times scientists from various parts of the world came to Poland and said that it was a basic world-class institute. It is also worth quoting professors who have addressed letters to many Members, regretting that these measures have been cut off. On the one hand, the government is talking about the irony of betting on innovation, and on the other hand, it suddenly cuts spending by 40% in the middle of the year. It's 50%. According to these professors, in the opinion of HR, as well as the sadistic environment, it is nothing more than dependence on foreign scientific centres, on foreign commercial companies that will introduce [[♪ The bell ♪]] your own advice, your own research. This leads only to the deterioration of the quality of research work in Poland, as well as to dependence on foreign centres, very active on the market, and deterioration of the quality of work of Polish institutes. Is there any chance of reversing those very unfavorable records for institutes that can lead de facto to the completion of their research activities?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u37	I ask you, Minister, to answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! I'd be happy to answer that. I am more optimistic than the Member and I think that some financial solutions can encourage or force rational spending. I also know these positions of a group of retired professors, seeking further institutes, lobbying for Members to be as it was. And that's not gonna happen. I also want to point out that it's not just the external resources that I've mentioned... There's no addiction here. Entering international consortia, looking for external resources - this is a very good school for science, not closing up, isolating from the world and claiming that we have to finance everything ourselves, while in the world research is sometimes carried out many steps forward. I would also like to remind you that the main source of funding for agricultural research institutes is the subsidy from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to maintain the research potential. I've never heard of it being reduced. There are multi-annual programmes of the Ministry of Agriculture. They have been limited in the part of this year, but we do not abandon the multiannual programmes, they will continue to be implemented and a number of actions will continue to be financed. I mentioned national and foreign projects. This is a testimony of, among other things. about the efficiency, operationality of our scientific institutions in the international race, the international distribution of funds, including the large EU funds that are available. Our institutions can participate in this. And believe me, there's a lot of institutes that are perfectly capable of handling this. I want to replace IUNG in Puławy and vet. They are perfectly capable of seeking external resources, not only lobbying for increasing national expenditure. Revenue from sales related to R &amp; D activities. Yeah, that's why we're working, that's why we're investigating, so we can also commercialize the results of these tests, so that they can go to your orchard, so they can go to all those who want and can use it. That's what you get paid for, too. Revenue from the activities of experimental establishments and companies. It's a commercial activity. We maintain this, but it is also necessary to demonstrate the operationality and ability to manage in these experimental plants or production holdings so that these measures support the institute. After all, some institutes have huge areas of land in Poland, nobody takes it away from them. They can also make efficient agricultural production, making money on it. I am convinced that a serious debate should be started on Polish agricultural science, on ten institutes under the Ministry of Agriculture, but also on the relationship with agricultural universities, including private research units. We have huge potential, which is, seems, a dormant colossus, which so far does not necessarily respond to all these expectations, demands of Polish agriculture. Problems change, the world around us changes, we change with it and Polish science also has to change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't see any threats at the moment, but thank you for that question. I am very careful to analyze it and observe it so that it does not hurt anything, and to introduce new solutions that will be beneficial for Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u39	Thank you very much. I'm announcing a 15-minute pre-announced recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 59 hours 10 min 22]] I'll resume the session after recess. We continue to consider item 15 of the agenda. Before I give the floor to the next Members who want to ask a question, I will greet the students and parents, the inhabitants of Chylin, in the Turkish district. Enjoy your stay, enjoy your stay. [[Applause]] And we move on to the question asked by the next Members. These will be Members of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition by Mr Krzysztof Brejza and Mr Andrzej Halicki. And the question will be about the actions taken by the state authorities to clarify the case concerning Silver. He is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Deputy Prosecutor General Mr Krzysztof Sierak. Mr Andrzej Halicki asks the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For several months now, we have had a very shocking case, and an interesting public opinion, because it concerns the most important representative of the governing party of Mr Kaczyński directly. It's about the Silver Company issue. Since January we have publications, many publications in the press, which concern the confusion and the possibility of committing a crime. In this regard, a notice was made to the prosecution by the injured person himself, who acted on behalf of and jointly with the company Silver, an Austrian citizen. And regardless of his notification to the prosecutor's office, Members of the Civic Platform have also submitted several at least notifications of the possibility of committing a crime and have also notified the failure of special services in this regard. I'm thinking CBA and Homeland Security. The question is very simple. What actions have been taken by the prosecutor's office, by the state institutions on this matter? What specific actions have been taken to explain this issue because the case cannot be swept under the carpet? We have Chiefs of Special Services CBA and ABW Ernest Beja and Piotr Pogonowski, respectively, who were associated with the Silver Company. But that is no reason for these servants to be idle. And the D.A.'s office, too. We do not have any information to take action that might be related to the explanation of this matter. And after all, not only is exceeding the powers punished by the Penal Code, but also not taking action. I'm thinking about art. 231 Criminal Code. We demand a full explanation because this case cannot be ignored in the way the prosecution is doing today. This matter will be clarified and the prosecution's inaction will also be analysed when a really good change takes place. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u41	I would ask you to answer this question by the deputy Attorney General, Mr. Krzysztof Sierak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u42	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I can refer to the question of what actions the prosecution has taken in the case of the Silver Company on the basis of the notification by Mr Gerald Birgfelnner. I do not feel entitled to answer the first and second questions concerning other authorities of the state or the special services, because I do not know anything about these activities. As regards the actions taken by the prosecution in this case, I can say that there are still ongoing investigations carried out by the District Attorney's Office in Warsaw in this case. The prosecutor shall endeavour to terminate the hearing of the notifying person as soon as possible. On 4 April 2019 Mr Bogdan Święczkowski, national prosecutor at the Sejm meeting, provided you with very comprehensive information and answered the above question, so I will limit my speech to providing information about these activities which were carried out after the information provided by the national prosecutor on 4 April. Within a period of less than one and a half months from the provision of information, the prosecutor has carried out the following actions in the present case. In view of Mr Gerald Birgfelnner's own commitment at his hearing on 13 March to provide documentary evidence of the costs incurred by him in connection with the investment and non-compliance with that obligation, the prosecutor in writing called on Mr Birgfelnner to present these documents. In response to that request on 1 April, the applicant's agent submitted a number of documents, including in English, some of which had already been submitted together with the notification, but there were no documents confirming the costs incurred by the notifier. On 28 March, the plenipotentiary informed the prosecutor, who sought to close the hearing as soon as possible, that Mr Gerald Birgfellner would be staying in Poland from 10 April to 12 April, and would be prepared to continue the hearing within that time limit. The prosecutor, having regard to this request, having regard also to his participation in these activities of the interpreter, has set a time limit for the hearing on 10 April. On April 10, Birgfellner did not present himself for questioning in spite of the call and the reported readiness to perform the proceedings, but his plenipotentiaries appeared. One of the agents stated that the notifier would not appear, because he did not receive a formal summons, and the address of his firm to which the notice was addressed is not an address for correspondence for Mr Gerald Birgfelnner. I would like to mention here that there is no other address for the delivery of correspondence in the country at the same time. On 10 April, a representative on behalf of Mr Gerald Birgfelner submitted a notice of suspicion of a disciplinary measure being committed by the prosecutor of the case by exceeding the instructional deadline of 30 days and not making a decision to initiate or refuse to initiate an investigation during that period. Gerald Birgfellner signed it in Warsaw on 9 April 2019 as a result of this notification in its entirety in Polish. It can therefore be presumed that Mr Gerald Birgfellner was in Warsaw the day before the date for his hearing. On 15 April 2019 against Mr Gerald Birgfelnner's unwarranted failure to appear on 10 April 2019, the prosecutor gave a decision to punish him with a criminal penalty of 3,000. zł. The D.A. once again called Mr. Gerald Birgfelnner on April 16th. On 16 April 2019 Gerald Birgfellner once again failed to appear at the hearing. On 17 April the District Attorney received a letter dated 11 April and signed by the notifier stating that he considered his next hearing unnecessary and that he was not going to come to Poland in the near future. In addition, the letter concluded that if the prosecutor wanted to question him further, he asked for legal assistance from the authorities at his place of residence in Austria, using technical means to enable a distance hearing. Following this information and Mr Birgfelnner's request of 17 April for international legal assistance, the prosecutor is currently at the stage of a European investigation order addressed to the authorities of the Austrian Public Prosecutor's Office for the completion of Gerald Birgfelnner's hearing as a whistleblower. Only after this operation has been carried out, depending on the assessment of the material collected in accordance with Article. 303 of the Code of Criminal Procedure will decide whether to initiate an investigation or refuse to initiate an investigation. For information, I can only point out that the 30-day deadline for checking is strict. Instructional. Its exceedance shall not have any procedural effects, including adverse effects on the notifier. According to doctrine and literature, it is not appropriate to initiate proceedings only for the reason that the examination procedure failed to complete within 30 days. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such action could lead to unjustified criminal proceedings and have far-reaching procedural consequences. I would just like to say that, in this case, it is often the case that the 30-day deadline is due to reasons which are independent of the procedural authority. In the present case, such circumstances should be considered, inter alia, to be the case. Your witness Gerald Birgfelnner's obstruction of trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u43	Mr Krzysztof Brejza will ask an additional question. Allow me, Mr. District Attorney. The Member is on his way to the speaker, so we must fire her.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u44	Mr. District Attorney! A specific question: When and for what promotion did you receive the D.A. Singwak, who conducts this procedure? I've been to you with an intervention. You're avoiding the answer when she was promoted to District Attorney's office. Second thing. At the end of July 2018, Jarosław Kaczyński spoke with his cousin. Cousin complained that in Kaczyński's company, the Forum ran out of money and would have to close the company. I've revealed that after this conversation, there's been an eviction of ads and contracts. After a month, i.e. in the period from 8 September to 28 September, the Post Bank concluded a campaign contract for several advertisements of 46 thousand. zł. There were also advertisements of other important institutions: the National Philharmonic - 26 thousand, the Office... [[The Maritime Authority.]] ... Sea in Szczecin - tens of thousands. I'm afraid the banks are refusing me. It's PKO BP, Pekao SA, and we know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the president of Bank Pekao SA visited Nowogrodzka. Are you guys gonna start testing this thread? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u45	Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u46	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think your question goes beyond the scope of this question that has been formulated. I think in a very precise way I've mentioned all the activities. Earlier, on April 4th, you did this to the National Attorney. Today I have presented to you all the actions that the prosecution has taken in this matter. If you have further questions, of course I kindly ask you in writing. I'm sure we'll respond to them. [[But you don't answer. I asked when she was promoted, but you don't answer.]] Mr. Speaker! The decision to initiate or not to initiate proceedings shall be taken by the prosecutor after an examination of the materials he shall collect. And it's up to him when he makes that decision. Any attempt at pressure, screaming, tumbling can't happen here, and they won't be able to control it. The D.A.'s gonna make the decision, not you or anybody else. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u47	Let's move on to the next question. The question on the cost of laparoscopic and traditional operations will be asked by Members of Law and Justice. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Maciej Miłkowski will answer. The first question will be asked by Mrs Anna Czech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u48	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On the basis of the observation at the hospital, which I am directing, knowing the guidelines of experts in the field of surgery, as well as the opinions of colleagues, directors of other hospitals, I ask the Minister to answer the question: Does the Ministry take into account promotion among others. by financing laparoscopic surgery in oncology and general surgery? Laparoscopic treatments are more expensive due to the use of high-specialist equipment such as harmonic knives, highly advanced laparoscopic tools and ultrasound intraoperative, but in the final analysis treatment is preferable. Treatment with a traditional method, i.e. a simple opening, also causes costs, as the patient stays longer in the hospital after surgery and is excluded for a longer period from professional activity and social life. Apart from the cost issue, the laparoscopic method is much safer and less incriminating to the patient, as shown by the fact that perioperative mortality is only 3%. Finally, laparoscopy allows you to view the entire abdominal cavity and make a very accurate recording of the image. And let us remember that the age of the people being operated is increasing and this method poses a lower risk for them and allows for faster recovery, quicker rehabilitation and gives the chance that success after such an operation will be greater. Only an improvement in the financing of these procedures, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The promotion of these procedures will give a chance to develop a laparoscopic method. Does the Ministry see the need to address these problems and solve them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u49	Thank you. And I invite Minister Maciej Miłkowski to answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u50	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you very much for this question. The system of funding under the National Health Fund for hospital services consists in financing according to homogeneous patient groups. As regards the benefits that you have been asking about, many of them are provided with different treatment techniques, including: minimally invasive techniques such as laparoscopy, endoscopy or other minimally invasive treatments, and traditional methods. Prices in many ranges have already been established many years ago, mainly on the basis of an important cost element, which is the duration of stay in the hospital, as well as the price of individual benefits. In fact, we see that laparoscopic operations reduce this length of stay, resulting in fewer hospital infections, fewer hospital personal costs, less cost of additional benefits than in the case of extended hospitalization time. We see this element, in fact the costs of hospitals are lower, hospitalization costs associated with the duration of hospital stays, but we also know that the costs of operating procedures performed with minimally invasive methods are significantly higher, because the costs of the equipment used and many disposable materials are significantly higher. On the other hand, the analysis of all costs affecting the cost of the patient's treatment and patient safety associated with a shorter period of hospital stay, as well as the subsequent recovery of the patient after hospital actually these increased costs of minimal invasive procedures reduces and induces preference for minimal invasive treatment. For today there are two groups of procedures. In homogeneous patient groups, benefits were divided into laparoscopy-endoscopic benefits and traditional benefits. However, these costs do not differ significantly. Often the traditional method is even more expensive, valued higher than the laparoscopic method. In the case of other benefits, these treatments are not divided and therefore the National Health Fund, preparing for systemic changes in this area, from 1 April this year. changed the order of the President of the National Health Fund. It takes into account additional procedures to determine which type of operation the procedure was performed and whether it is a minor invasive procedure. On this basis, we will analyze the duration of hospital stays and complications occurring after performing various types of treatments in order to change the valuation of these two types of treatments. As far as laparoscopy is concerned, we will analyse this issue perhaps in the first period, because we are planning a first change from 1 July. And as of 1 July, we want to re-evaluate part of the benefits in such a way that the benefits are more expensive than those provided by the traditional method. Of course, we always take into account the financial effect, as hospital directors, doctors, taking into account that more can be earned on a given witness, but not lost, because now part of the laparoscopic benefits are valued in such a way that healthcare providers lose on it. Therefore, we need to substantially re-evaluate this and, for each type of procedure, such over-re-re-evaluation will take place. We plan to leave the same value of benefits within a given group, but the difference in valuations will be in favour of small-invasive benefits. Of course, there are also other low-invasive benefits, where the difference between general benefits and these low-invasive benefits is very large, and it is not proven that these benefits are cheaper. If the difference is several tens of thousands, then it is still difficult to accept such a benefit as a benefit, which should be financed mostly as a minor benefit, but in the case of minor surgical, gynaecological, urological procedures in particular [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is where we're going, and that's what we're going to be studying at the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u51	And an additional question. Please remain here, Minister, because the Member will ask a question from the parliamentary bench. Anna Czech will ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u52	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Thank you so much for this answer, I'm really satisfied. I am glad that the Minister sees that there is simply a great loss, urology and so on in certain procedures, which is why it is important that this has already been noticed, and I hope that it will be taken. I realized that in the second half of the year a decision could be expected. Of course, the doctor always decides how the patient should be operated. And as far as costs are concerned, I just wanted to say that, of course, these costs are very numerous. The Minister, from his professional experience I know, can do it perfectly. However, there are still e.g. hospitals that are more focused on elective procedures and others have different cost-intensive procedures in their SOR structures, e.g. 24-hour shift on the block. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why I'm asking you to take these things into account. Thank you very much for your reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u53	As a justification, I would also like to say that the Ministry of Health is very clear about this problem of patient time in hospitalization, and we want to significantly shorten this time by making very strong use of hospitalization services for one-day treatment, also so that the patient does not have to stay overnight in hospital. These are not laparoscopic benefits, but in hospitalization related to ophthalmology, cataracts in the case of a patient who stays in hospital more than one day, the price drops. Similarly, we see that one of the important elements of shortening hospitalization time during surgical benefits is the important use of laparoscopy benefits. We estimate that the average duration of stay here, if we move on to these benefits on a system basis, will significantly shorten. In this respect, the Ministry of Health signed many contracts last year for funding medical simulation centers, where healthcare providers, doctors can train, and students during specialization, so that this method is more used. When it comes to benefits performed in an emergency mode, we also see this problem. We see that hospital emergency services at good hospitals lead to increased recruitment of patients for emergency services, therefore they have fewer opportunities to receive scheduled patients. We also see this characteristic that, in the case of patients who are taken in an emergency mode, in principle, the cost of their stay is higher because they are not scheduled for direct operations. Therefore, the duration of their stay is significantly longer, so the costs are also significantly higher. We've been analyzing, we've been considering that the costs for patients who have been admitted from a medical emergency system or when they're in emergency mode from another hospital would be a little different than for patients who are in elective mode. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u54	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Members of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition on information disclosed in the media regarding the clearance granted to the President of the Council to Minister Mateusz Morawiecki from Bank Zachodni WBK, now Santander. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Michał Dworczyk. The first question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The second week has passed since the publication of the book by one of the closest colleagues of President Morawiecki from his time working at the bank, his head of communication, his and the entire group, who stated in it, referring to the in-bank sources that Prime Minister Morawiecki has to obtain a bonus from the bank for working in this bank in the amount of several million zlotys. That's what the bank sources say. Let me quote, you will allow: Money, naturally interest-bearing, is waiting for the right moment and only then will it reach the beneficiary's account, the Prime Minister of Morawiecki. In this case, the moment we assume will be the moment when Mateusz Morawiecki leaves the public office, which will relieve him of his obligation to publish his property statements. It is very serious because we are dealing with a situation where the Prime Minister's firm is very happy to comment on various statements made in this book, including on the private sphere, but does not refer to this. It is not enough for us, Minister, to say that there is a manifest declaration of property, because we know that in this case, the authors say, a clever legal trick that allows not to include this amount in the statement of property. It's not a private matter, it's a state dimension, because we need to know today. In fact, who pays the Polish Prime Minister - whether you pay him or if you pay him the amounts much more serious was his employer, who is dependent on his decisions today. I would like to remind you, for example, of the French issue and the issue of the law, the presidential law against which Prime Minister Morawiecki is opposed. Minister! With all due respect to you, sir, I believe these are questions that Prime Minister Morawiecki must answer to the public and the Sejm personally. I'm curious to hear your answers, of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But you will answer according to your state of knowledge, and only Prime Minister Morawiecki has full knowledge of this matter, and he must answer us questions as to whether the money that the Polish state is paying him is the only money that he keeps up with today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u56	Thank you. Please respond to the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I have received two questions that have been formulated in this point, so maybe I'll widen it. I will refer to Mr Nitras' statement and also tell him what is in the material I have been given. First of all, I would like to point out that when it comes to the content of the book that Members of Parliament refer to, Mr Sławomir Nitras and Mr Mariusz Witczak, it is largely based on manipulation, half-truths, and sometimes completely misses the truth. The matters you are asking about are not true as you said they were not known or were not addressed because the Government Information Centre has issued an appropriate statement on this matter on 10 May. Gentlemen, you have formulated two questions by referring to the book quoted just now by the Member. The point is, these are the media reports that the Prime Minister was supposed to receive certain funds as part of the check-in. It was a thesis. There were also two questions. For what purpose was this agreement conditionally concluded? Second question. In the light of the above circumstances, can the President of the Council of Ministers manage the Council of Ministers impartially and independently? These were the questions you have formulated, and they have been given to us. I would like to say unambiguously: There are no conditional agreements, they do not exist. Like there is no briefing. Not much, I will say, that in the contract under which Mateusz Morawiecki served as president of BZ WBK, there was no foreseen situation in which he, resigning from his office as president, was to receive some briefing. It was simply not foreseen at all. That is therefore not true. For this reason, the second question is completely irrelevant. One more point that needs to be highlighted here. The questions you are asking, today, earlier, a few minutes or a few dozen minutes ago at the conference, I understand that they are part of a certain political game or a certain political debate. But, gentlemen, please note that this is how you depreciate the position of President of the Council of Ministers. Regardless of who is sitting in the Prime Minister's chair today, this office should have respect in Poland, and you are trying to undermine trust in this office. You know perfectly well that the banking system and the insurance system are very precisely regulated. After the crisis in 2008, additional regulations were introduced, both within the European Union and in Poland, which also regulate all issues related to the transfer of funds, with remuneration. All claims of property shall be verified by the relevant services. All financial information relating to the President of the Council of Ministers may be verified publicly by looking at those statements which have been verified by the relevant State services. Therefore, gentlemen, what you're doing is not so bad for Matthew Morawiecki, because this case is clean. You are thus undermining confidence in the position, the function of President of the Council of Ministers, which objectively is simply detrimental to our country. These questions are pointless. There were no secret accounts. There was no briefing. [[Will it be?]] There are no agreements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u58	Thank you very much. The supplementary question will be asked by Mariusz Witczak. Before doing so, at the request of Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, I will greet the young people from Rybnik who came to the Sejm. [[Applause]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I wish you a pleasant tour and a positive experience of your stay in the Sejm and Warsaw. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The weakness of your speech is that there is no Prime Minister Morawiecki here. This is a matter that concerns him directly, and this is an extremely serious matter. It is not about depreciating the office of the President of the Council of Ministers, but about personalizing the former President of BZ WBK, a former banker who became Prime Minister, and who had problems in the media area from the beginning, everyone could observe it, describing their own assets, dividing into components concerning his wife, his personal property. This gives us a context since the beginning of the discussion on the clarity and transparency of the assets of the President of the Council of Ministers. I want to tell you that today the Prime Minister wanted to open a lobbying centre in Brussels, and we do not know whose interests it is in here, except, of course, the interests of PiS or Jarosław Kaczyński. That is why we ask these questions, because the Prime Minister [[♪ The bell ♪]] It has a direct impact, Minister, on KNF. We know about Zdzisław's plan, the problems with the operation of KNF, the banking sector. These are very serious things and you must answer them, and in fact the Prime Minister must look Poles in the eye and tell the truth, how it is with his relations, the agreements that were described in the book. He didn't just describe it because his former spokesperson described it. You need to take this case seriously. The Prime Minister must come and tell the public honestly how things are going. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u60	Do you still have that question... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! If you've finished the discussion between the benches, I can add to the previous statement... [[Prime Minister Tusk's advisor is burning his emotions.]] Please? [[Prime Minister Tusk's advisor, Prime Minister Morawiecki, sparks emotions.]] Apart from inappropriate malice, I can say one more thing, because here it has also been questioned where the President of the Council of Ministers is being remunerated. It is clear that the sole remuneration of the President of the Council of Ministers is being obtained by means of his position. Of course, the Prime Minister has savings. Anyone can verify that by reviewing his statement of property. It is probably the first case in the history of Poland that the person who took such a position in the business world resigned from very large conditions of remuneration and came to perform public service. I think that here we should appreciate this fact regardless of how sensitive we are and what political option we represent. Because to give up serious money to serve Poland... Everyone should be able to appreciate it. [[We just want to make sure he quit.]] The Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki serves Poland, works for Poland, represents the interests of the Polish state in Poland and abroad. The suggestions we have just heard - who he is lobbying for, on whose behalf he is lobbying - suggesting that he is doing activities other than for the sake of the Polish State, are simply, sir, obscene. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u62	I would like to thank the Members and the Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. We move on to the next question that you will be asking Mrs Law and Justice on reducing the benefits paid to Poles working in Austria - paying social security contributions and taxes in this country - only because their children live in Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Mr Marcin Zielenecki will answer. The first question will be asked by Mrs Anna Paluch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u63	Thank you very much. Minister! As of 1 January this year, Austria makes the amount of family benefits and family benefits for children living in another Member State dependent on the cost of living in that Member State. Such a procedure reduces the amount of benefits paid in Austria to workers from the European Union, inter alia. from Eastern Europe, Central Europe, who pay social security contributions and taxes in Austria. Reduction of benefits, i.e. so-called. Indexing of benefits is therefore taking place, at least in such a way as to motivate this step by the Austrian authorities, that the children of these workers live in another Member State. The attempt by the Austrian Government to index family benefits is a clear contradiction of the principles underlying the European Union, in particular the freedom of movement of workers. The attempt to make the amount of family benefits paid subject to income levels in the country of origin is clearly an increase in administrative costs. Let the Austrian authorities immediately say that they want to pay more to their officials. Our fellow countrymen working in Austria or in other countries contribute to economic growth in these countries. They pay taxes like other labour market participants, so they should receive the same benefits for children. The so-called countries. The old Union maintains economic growth mainly through the work of our fellow countrymen, so they should respect their rights and not introduce double standards for the treatment of workers - depending on which country of the European Union these workers come from. Our compatriots working outside Poland want to ensure that they are worthy of their families, so they are obviously at risk of permanent separation from their children. So I have a question: Is and how the Polish government [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's fighting. With this harmful phenomenon?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u64	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u65	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As the Member mentioned in the question, the provisions on the indexing of family benefits entered into force in Austria on 1 January 2019. It is worth noting that we are talking about national regulation, the regulation of Austrian law. The problem we are discussing is regulated by EU law, at EU level, in Regulation 883 on the coordination of social security systems. It can be said that the principle laid down in Regulation 883, is the lex loci laboris principle, i.e. the legislation applicable to the place of employment. When a Polish citizen works in the territory of the Republic of Austria, he acquires the right to family benefits in accordance with Austrian law regardless of where his family members live. The regulation, which was introduced in Austria, can be said not to call into question this fundamental principle of lex loci laboris, but it assumes that the amount of family benefits paid, financed by the Austrian system, will be differentiated according to the cost of living in the country to which these benefits are, in short, exported, in the country where the family members of such a worker from Poland live. As regards the consequences for Poles, here it must be noted that Poland is the third country in terms of the number of children for whom these benefits are exported from Austria to another Member State of the European Union, after Hungary and after Slovakia. As regards the amount of child benefit that is exported, this is on average EUR 177 per child. As regards the amount of the global transfer of funds paid, exported, this is the amount of 6800 000. Euros. As far as Poland's position is concerned, we believe from the outset that the regulation adopted in the Austrian system is incompatible with EU law, with this Regulation 883 on the coordination of social security systems. We believe that the new Austrian law can touch about 15 thousand. children living in Poland. After data analysis, we find that the introduction in Poland of a new family benefit, known as the benefit of 500+, has significantly reduced the amount of funds transferred from Austria to Poland already in 2016. We note that thanks to the introduction of the program, the family of 500+.The level of family benefits in our country has been significantly closer to the level of family benefits in Austria, and thus the level of benefits exported to Poland has decreased. We believe that the abolition of the income criterion for the first child, which will take place from 1 July this year, and the granting of this benefit to all children will result in a further decrease in the amount of the benefits paid from the Austrian system to children residing in the Republic of Poland. In this connection, we believe that the request for indexing, pushed by the Austrian side, in our bilateral relations, lost its validity, given that the benefits in Poland were de facto equivalent to the Austrian benefits. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of honourable Members to the fact that the Polish side reacted very quickly to the introduction of this regulation in the Austrian system. We are signatories to a letter addressed to the Commissioner for Foreign Affairs. Employment, social affairs, skills and labour mobility Marianne Thyssen, signed on 15 November 2018 in Bratislava by Ministers for the Development of Social Security Policy. work and social affairs of the Visegrad Group. Other countries, such as Lithuania, Bulgaria and Slovenia, also joined the Visegrad Group. Ministers stressed in this letter that freedom of movement for workers, together with all fundamental rights guaranteed to them and their families by the Treaties, is a cornerstone [[♪ The bell ♪]] the single market and the main impetus for economic growth and improvement of living standards throughout the European Union. They further stated that they were convinced that if mobile workers pay all their contributions and taxes properly, they were entitled to the same benefits for themselves and their families irrespective of the Member State in which they live. The last two sentences about today's situation. The procedure under Article is currently underway by the European Commission. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, launched on 24 January. This is, you can say, a kind of ultimatum that the European Commission has addressed to the Austrian side. If the Austrian party fails to react to this procedure, it will be possible to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union and then Poland, as well as the other Member States of the European Union, will consider the possibility of joining this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u66	Minister, there's still time to finish. Stay on the stand, or the Members will ask questions from the benches. The second question will be asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for this response, but yes: the provisions on the coordination of European Union social security are primarily intended to protect our rights, the rights of our citizens. I wanted to ask you if there are situations in other countries in the Ministry, because our parliamentary offices are being informed that this is already the case in Germany. Do other Member States of the European Union also intend to apply similar practices as those in Austria? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u68	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u69	Dear Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The first thing I think is worth emphasising: the European Commission, we continue to maintain the position that possible changes in this area are the matter of EU law. I would therefore like to make it clear that no work at EU level in the European Commission on the possible introduction of family benefits indexing is being carried out today. I think it is also important to stress that the situation in Austria is a precedent. There is no other system of national law in the European Union in which such regulation at national level would be introduced, in which legislative work would be carried out on the implementation of such regulation. And I think it's supposed to be comforting here, too. We are also in contact with our German partner, we have heard assurances that this mechanism, when it comes to the German side, will not be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u70	I would like to thank the Members and the Minister. We move on to the next question, which will also be asked by Members of the Law and Justice, on the implementation of the programme "Emerity+'. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Marcin Zielenecki. First question - Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The actions of the Law and Justice Government are aimed at improving the quality of life of Poles in many areas. One of the priorities is the family and its safety, but security is understood in a very broad and multifaceted way. The government is implementing a number of programs to support the family. These are among others. 500+ programme, for pupils, the planned programme is good start, or the Big Family Card. But family are also seniors. Seniors are a very important social group, whose government of Law and Justice - the United Right in 2019 dedicated further forms of support, among which there is also a programme "Emerity+" in addition to the provision of "Mama 4+". The payment of this benefit of PLN 1100 gross is already made to the accounts of pensioners and pensioners, which brings them great joy, as well as the need to thank them for being noticed. I have a question, Minister. How many pensioners and pensioners have covered this scheme, as well as must any criteria or conditions for receiving this benefit be met by pensioners and pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u72	I ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u73	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the "Emerity+' programme is implemented in accordance with the timetable set out in the Act of 4 April 2019, not so long ago adopted, on the one-off provision of money to pensioners in 2019. In fact, we started the single-money payment procedure for all pensioners at the end of April 2019 by giving the first benefits under this scheme of PLN 1100 gross. As regards the subject-matter of this programme, it covers more than 9800 thousand. Recipients. It is a program, we would say, universal. It actually covers all persons who are entitled to pension benefits both from the general scheme and from the agricultural system and from the pension supply systems of professional soldiers, officers of uniform services, also persons entitled to benefits and pre-retirement benefits, persons entitled to social pensions, as well as persons who have not so long acquired the right to parental supplementary benefits under the government's maternal pension scheme. In total, 9800 thousand are eligible. out of which nearly 7 million are pensioners, 2620 thousand. These are persons entitled to pension benefits, over 100,000. are persons entitled to benefits and pre-retirement benefits, 282 thousand. they are people entitled to social pensions and, as I mentioned, 65 thousand. they are persons entitled to a pension so-called. Motherly. As regards the conditions to be met in order to obtain this benefit, the only condition is, in fact, to have the right to one of those benefits which I mentioned on 30 April 2019. This benefit shall be granted regardless of the amount of the benefit received from these different schemes of broadly understood pension security. There is no need to apply for this benefit, because the procedure for granting this benefit is automatically triggered by the authority that pays, so to speak, the basic pension benefit, i.e. the Social Insurance Institution, but also the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and the relevant cells of the Ministry of Justice's national defence, internal affairs and administration. As regards the amounts planned to finance this benefit, I would like to remind you that this amount is PLN 10 800 million. I think it is also worth saying a few words about how advanced we are when it comes to the payment of these benefits. This is good information for Polish pensioners and pensioners. Of the 9.8 million people, as reported on 13 May this year, 4.5 million people have already received the benefit, which is actually close to half. As regards persons for whom this benefit has already been established in the IT system of the Social Insurance Institution, it is close to 7.5 million benefits. It can be said that these benefits are gradually paid on the date of payment of the basic benefit. The time limits vary for the different categories of insured persons, so that those who have not yet received the benefit do not have a proper reason to be concerned, because, together with the benefit granted for May, they will also receive the benefit just under the so-called. Thirteenth pension. As regards the amount of funds already spent by the Social Insurance Institution, but also other entities, for the payment of these benefits, we have already established benefits worth PLN 8600 million. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u74	Thank you very much. The supplementary question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, but before doing so, you will allow me to greet the group that came from the Ostrów commune from the ostrczycko-sedziszów district. [[Applause]] I do so at the request of Mr Kazimierz Moskal, wishing you a successful stay in the Sejm, positive impressions and an interesting trip to Warsaw. And now Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy implements many programs addressed to seniors. Their task is not only to improve the living conditions of older people, but also to exploit their potential and life experience. The "Emerity+" programme, which we are currently talking about, is the answer to the real needs of seniors, to their expectations. Seniors are openly talking about the fact that they enjoy the extra money that they fund, strengthening their home budgets. I'm so happy for you. The Minister answered my colleague's question very comprehensively, to that first question. I am also pleased to be assured that seniors have nothing to worry about when it comes to payment deadlines, because when I meet with many people, I hear these questions about whether this money will come in. Others, on the other hand, are already bragging that they have received this. I have a favor to ask. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the Minister were to briefly sum up the number of people who have already received this benefit and the amount already paid to pensioners. And possibly, whether it is possible to set the limit date for recent withdrawals so that seniors do not have to worry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'll say it again. With regard to the number of persons entitled to this benefit, this is the number of 9.8 million persons entitled to widely understood pension benefits, regardless of the amount, it is worth remembering that. The second important information: we are already well advanced in the process of establishing this right. This right has been established for nearly 7.5 million eligible persons, with data as of 13 May. As for the number of people who have already received this statement, this is the number of 4.5 million people, we are approaching... And from what I remember, according to the figures on 15 May, this figure has already exceeded half of the persons who fulfil the conditions for acquiring the right to this benefit. We've established a law for... Sorry, we have established under the 13th pension a benefit of PLN 8600 million for the total value of this scheme for all persons entitled to PLN 10 800 million. As regards those who receive this declaration by the latest dates, the specific nature of the agricultural system will decide that certain categories of insured persons, pensioners and pensioners receive quarterly benefits, so that the benefit for the second quarter of 2019 will be granted in June. So that this is actually the latest date of payment of the benefit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u77	I would like to thank the Members and the Minister. We move on to the next question that will be asked by Members of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition on the financial situation of the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki threatening its further functioning. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Paweł Chezernaker. He begins with the question by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Over 2 years ago, Opole was enlarged at the expense of four nearby municipalities. This process has serious consequences on the part of the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki. The issue of transfer of property is still unfinished today. The municipalities of Opole and Wellness are far from agreeing on this issue, which translates into specific problems, e.g. as regards the functioning of the community in the Blacks - at the moment the Black Opole - where the common room has not been handed over and this community cannot benefit from it. A much more serious problem is the fact that the municipality of Dobrzeń is now operating on the basis of savings from the previous period and - you should call it that - I will help from the city of Opola, which will not be transferred from the next year. It means... He'll be here, he'll be here next year. This means that since 2021 the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki will operate in a situation of a sustainable deficit, its shortcomings are estimated at about PLN 6 million. We have formulated the question: How does the government intend to solve the problem of the lack of viability of the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki after 2020? Here I would like to appeal to the government's responsibility for decisions, because the government accepted the fact that the budget revenue of the municipality of Łobień in the most important category of tax, property tax, would fall from 35.5 million to 5300 thousand. I don't know the other situation in the country that's so drastically limited. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the income of the municipality as a result of the division. I ask you to answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u79	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by saying that yesterday this topic was also raised at the meeting of the local government committee in the Sejm. I thank you for this discussion yesterday, with the participation of local authorities, including President Opole, because this discussion yesterday showed that wherever you talk, where there is a field of dialogue, where there is some kind of compromise, there is a chance of an agreement, also such an agreement that people will be able to benefit from in the future. I answer this question directly in connection with the decision of the Council of Ministers to change the borders of the city of Opole by including the municipalities of Dąbrowa, Komprachcice and Pruszków in the city's borders. Representatives of Opole City have already started talks with representatives of all interested entities on financial issues since September 2016. For example, it is worth mentioning that the result of these discussions was appropriate support from Opole given in the form of a targeted grant to the municipality of Łobień Wielki and the municipality of Dąbrowa. To sum up, the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki, which has so far been financially assisted by the city of Opole, should take into account the actual situation in financial planning and adjust its expenditure to the new, current level of its revenue in the coming years, where possible. It should also be added here that the financial situation of the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki assessed the formation of the ruling RIO in Opole, because, as you know very well, this competent regional accounting office supervises and controls the financial economy of local government units. The RIO in Opole issued positive opinions on the draft budget for this year, but also forecasts of the amount of debt for the years 2019 to 2022 and the draft multiannual financial forecast for the years up to 2022. According to the opinions issued, the municipality meets the relations which are governed by the Public Finance Act in the years 2019 to 2022. Of course, it is a good forecast, but it is not an exclusive problem that we are talking about here. I would like to conclude with this information, which I also presented yesterday at the meeting of the Sejm Committee, that currently in the Ministry of Finance, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, competent supervisory authorities, voivodships, regional accounting chambers, there are analyses of cases of local government units in financial difficulties with a view to developing systemic solutions which could prevent the future financial situation of local authorities. I guarantee that this case will also be discussed at one of the next meetings of this team, which deals with the issue of local government debt, and will also be invited to work on this case representatives of local government and institutions who supervise the finances of local government in the Opole Voivodeship, because from yesterday's meeting of the committee and the data we have, it is true that this is not really a problem that will occur this year or the following year, but after 2021, and certainly the Ministry, preparing solutions for the difficult financial situation of local governments, will carefully analyse this example. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u81	Thank you very much. The second question, Mr Rajmund Miller, asks an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u82	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am basically happy with what you just said, but I would like to ask you to set a time limit within which the state... because the matter of the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki is an urgent matter. I would like to ask you to set a deadline and a declaration as to whether the Ministry will undertake mediation as soon as possible. There are almost no solutions today, because there are and will be quite a number of situations where enlargements and changes in administrative boundaries will take place. However, the law does not determine the legal effects of changes in the administrative boundaries of municipalities. There's no record of what you said you were working on. As these cases are increasing, we would like to know from you at what stage you are in this work and when you will develop a set of legislative provisions so as to avoid such situations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which occurred in the Opole Voivodship.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Chezernaker again replies. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u84	Firstly, as far as mediation is concerned, we know that there is a matter of property in relation to the change of borders. At the moment, the distribution of this property between municipalities is being established and, of course, we, as the Ministry, have declared that, if there is a problem, it is legally possible to issue such an order to the Prime Minister, and then this procedure will be introduced in a situation where there is no agreement. But from the information that we have received from all parties to the current dispute, it appears that all parties have declared their willingness to agree without interference, let's say, government administration and administrative proceedings on this issue. I hope it comes to that. That's one thing. As regards the second issue, namely the issue of indebted local governments, I will indeed remind you that the current government, the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki, has adopted such a solution, which so far has not been in the case of the most indebted municipality of Ostrowice, where the liquidation of the municipality took place through the law and the takeover of debt by the State Treasury. We remember that for years it was a problem that was unsolved. I give this example in order to show that the problem of indebted local governments is a problem that at the moment is deeply interested in MSWiA and the government. Because we know that the problems of the municipalities that are in debt are increasing. There are also more and more financial mechanisms that, unfortunately, help in this, for example, parabanks that are very willing to lend and then to pay off a much larger amount of liabilities. And that is why this team was created at the moment, which is working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on solutions, so that in the future this kind of situation in local governments does not happen, that there are mechanisms that will not allow it. That's one thing. And secondly, as I have guaranteed, those municipalities whose kazus are currently being developed are a couple and certainly at one of the next meetings of this team, it will definitely be this year, in a month or two months' time, in 3 months' time, also this casus of the gmina Łódź Wielkie will be analyzed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u85	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Barbara Bubula, Elżbieta Kruk and Anna Sobecka asked questions about the establishment of the Institute of Literature in Krakow addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Please, Mrs Barbara Bubula, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u86	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Never enough to say that literature is one of the pillars of our identity, and thanks to poetry and novels we survived all the dark partitions in the 19th century, and after regaining independence in 1918, the life of literature flourished with extraordinary intensity. We remember that then the works of such great writers as Dąbrowska, at the beginning of Żeromski, then Leśmian, Tuwim, Wierzyński, a whole crowd of critics and historians of literature, and dozens of other participants in literary life flourished. This has been done in many rich artistic trends and an ongoing creative debate on what connects our community, the debate on life's attitudes and Polish answers to questions about the meaning of existence, on language, on beauty. And then, in the period of the Second Republic, the Polish state appreciated the importance of literary life and supported writers and poets, criticism and research of literature. Therefore, today, in the free Republic, activity in this field is absolutely necessary. Especially since we need to make up for many years of neglect in support of non-commercial literary life. Therefore, with great interest and, I am not hiding, I have welcomed the information about the creation of a literary institute. However, it is worth noting at the meeting, also in plenary, that the Sejm will be created by the Institute and that the answer from the Ministry of Culture, the Minister, will come to the following questions. What were the aims of setting up a literary institute? What effects does the Institute expect from the government, and at what time? Who will be the beneficiary of the Institute's activities? And what public funds have been earmarked for the work of this institute? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u87	Thank you very much, Member. Responsible for the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Ms Wanda Zwinogrodzka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u88	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer your question, I would like to stress that the Institute of Literature was created in response to clearly formulated expectations and requests made to the Ministry of Culture by creative environments, in this case especially by the literary environment. In various ways these demands or expectations were formulated, perhaps most widely within the framework of the National Conference of Culture held in 2017 and 2018. There the need to support especially contemporary Polish writers, in particular non-commercial authors, with high artistic and cultural value was very clear. Using a publicist shortcut, we could present these expectations formulated in the framework of a national conference in such a figure that in the Polish literary market we are currently dealing with a situation in which the beginners Miłosz, Herbert or Gombrowicz, if they exist and create, we, readers, which is very likely, do not know at all. This is because they are unable to break through market mechanisms into the awareness of the literary audience, so they are unable to publish their volume of poetry, especially the first or one of the first, to publish a collection of stories. Poland is a large country, with a large but yet ungigantic creative potential, and therefore cannot afford to waste talent. Therefore, the Minister of Culture of 26 February this year. set up the Institute of Literature. The main aim of the Institute is to create a space friendly to the creators of ambitious contemporary literature, in which they can publish their works and make contact with readers. The second, but no less important task, is to improve the competence of the recipients of this contemporary literature, because we observe a process in which these competences are not always very high, and it makes it more difficult for contemporary literature to be present in the awareness of readers. This task is to be carried out through educational activities popularizing the ability to read contemporary literary conventions, understand contemporary literature, interpret it. The Institute is to carry out these tasks by carrying out its own publishing activity, including the cultural quarterly New Subscription and a series of publications associated with it. These publishing series consist of books of a critical and scientific nature addressed to the literary audience as well as publications of a popularizing nature. These are mini-presentations of contemporary creators, conceived as scientific aids for teachers, students and students, who will of course want to benefit from this. The Institute of Literature publishes them in large amounts, about 9 thousand. copies of which 7 000 It is sent free of charge to school and university libraries. In addition, the Institute will also carry out educational activities, including training, workshops, various types of courses. He will create specialized portals and databases dedicated to creators, multimedia portals, so that, what is much to say here, he will also interest young people in this topic. This multimedia is better for young people. Already a number of such materials are prepared with the participation of various contemporary creators. It is also intended to be a database dedicated to authors, researchers and critics of Polish literature both in Polish and in foreign languages. It is also intended to be a database of information about literary life. In addition, the Institute intends to organise interdisciplinary creative meetings, conferences, symposia, scientific seminars, festivals and exhibitions both in Poland and abroad. In other words, the subject of the Institute of Literature as a national institution of culture will be the patronage of the state over the environment of creators and researchers of Polish contemporary literature and literary criticism. And using a metaphor, we can say that we imagine that one of the most important tasks of this institution will also be to make it the cradle of young talents or incubators, to say more today. As far as the resources we spend on this institute are concerned, the grant for this is less than 6 million a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u89	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Barbara Bubula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u90	Thank you. Minister! I just wanted to ask for a follow-up on one thing. Namely, it seems on the basis of observation, let's say, my own environment, that there is still a gap in non-commercial literary life, which has not yet been completed by the Book Institute to a sufficient extent, consisting of the lack of translations and support for criticism and research of literature, which is related to translations of valuable literary works, especially poetics, from foreign literature to Polish. We know that the head of the institute has even dealt with Nobel Prize winner Tomas Tranströmer. Does the Institute of Literature also have actions in its scope to support translations of good literature from foreign languages, non-commercial ones, as well as support of Polish researchers or critics of foreign poetry? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u91	Thank you very much. Again Minister Wanda Zwinogrodzka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u92	As far as translation activities are concerned, according to the Statute, it is not directly in the field of interest or activity of the Institute of Literature. Yes, it is. More like a field for the Book Institute. That's where the programs are right for it. On the other hand, we trust that the activities of the Institute of Literature will also be conducive to this, because the stimulation or animation of literary life also in the form of international conferences and publications devoted to contemporary literature, including poetry - and even this is not a side effect, but intended - on the one hand it increases interest in Polish literature in other countries, and on the other, it also increases the interest of Polish authors, also translators, literature arising outside Poland. It can therefore be said that unless, in the direct operation of such a programme at the moment, the institute provides for its activities to go in that direction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u93	Thank you very much. This question with an answer concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft law amending the National Property Resources Act and some other laws, print No 3435. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 on the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information will be considered on the shocking actions of the government regarding the acquisition of helicopters for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, as requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers will take the floor. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Now please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Czesław Mrocek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! General! Officers! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Polish army needs dozens of new multi-tasking helicopters to replace those deployed and withdrawn from the Armed Forces. For this reason, several years ago, one of the most important modernization programs of the Polish Armed Forces, technical modernisation programs, was the acquisition of these helicopters. Let's take a look at how this program was implemented. On 4 October 2016, the PiS government resigns from the offset negotiations with Airbus Helicopters, which in practice means the cancellation of the tender, which lasted almost 4 years. On October 10, the former Minister Antoni Macierewicz, following the decision to withdraw from the tender, in the presence of Prime Minister Beata Szydło at the Sikorsky plant in Mielec, has commissioned, not even announced, only the delivery of six helicopters to the Special Forces. Later on October 11, it turns out that it will be eight helicopters, and on October 12, Minister Macierewicz declares that Sikorsky will deliver 21 helicopters. A few days later, he declares that Poland will produce helicopters together with Ukraine. Finally, on 18 October 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and MON declares that it will buy helicopters under the so-called. urgent operational needs. Ladies and gentlemen, after almost 3 years of proceedings in January this year. Four Black Hawk helicopters were purchased for the Special Forces for the amount of PLN 700 million and a few weeks ago, in April a contract was signed for the purchase of four AW101 helicopters from Leonardo for the Navy for the shocking amount of PLN 1650 million. All of Poland witnessed a gross violation of public procurement rules and rules during the course of this procedure. The invitation to tender was cancelled so that at least part of Black Hawk helicopters could be commissioned without a tender, after complete consideration. With regard to the second purchase of four helicopters for the Navy, one offer was made because there was only one offer. Instead of 50 helicopters, eight were purchased, or rather contracted, because deliveries will be carried out with great delay in a few years. And now the case, perhaps not the most important, but equally important: the average price of the helicopter after deduction of the offset resulting from the conclusion of the contract with Airbus is PLN 200 million. The average price of the helicopter resulting from these two agreements signed by MON is nearly PLN 250 million. Why is this happening? Why hasn't this helicopter acquisition program been implemented? Why is it that the state budget is losing money? Because the interests of the ruling party, the interests of the PiS government are different from those of the Armed Forces. [[Applause]] This government, before the 2015 elections, promised that it would lead to the cancellation of this tender and kept its word. This political group signed an agreement with the trade unions before the election. Of the three foreign suppliers, because there were three foreign suppliers in Poland, two foreign producers with a loss for... [[They have bets in Poland.]] All three producers have factories in Poland. The army will not receive dozens of necessary helicopters, it will not be able to replace the withdrawn Russian helicopters, it will not be able to carry out the tasks which the Polish state gives to the Polish Army. For what reason? I mean, there was money for that. The money was there, but it's gone. The money's been spent, but the helicopters aren't there either. Instead of 50, it's 8. What was the money spent on? Among other things, the acquisition of five aircraft for the carriage of power which, according to the declaration of that government, were to be obtained from outside the MON funds. [[Applause]] After 4 years after the annulment of this procedure, the money had split up, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the helicopters are gone. The military will have nothing to do. That's the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u95	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Generals! Ladies and gentlemen! A few things to explain. Following the request of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, I would like to present information on the purchase of helicopters for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. In the beginning, the correction immediately as to how the Polish army, the Polish army, as far as this type of aircraft is concerned, was in such a dramatic situation. Ladies and gentlemen, at present in the Armed Forces there are nearly 250 helicopters of different types, which are designed to carry out a wide range of tasks: impact, transport, rescue, reconnaissance and training, including Mi-24 type combat helicopters, W-3PL Głuszec, Mi-2, Mi-14PŁ and SH-2G submarines, namely on-board helicopters. There are also transport helicopters of type W-3 Falcon and Mi-8 and Mi-17. For the implementation of SAR tasks are used helicopters W-3 Anakonda and Mi-14, while the training process is secured by helicopters Mi-2 and SW-4 Puszczyk. It should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that maintaining the level of efficiency depends on the ability of industry and the availability of spare parts. In relation to the most exploited helicopters, work was started to determine the possibility of extending their target standard of operation, which would allow for further use of these helicopters by the Polish Armed Forces. As regards the specific questions contained in the application submitted by the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I would like to inform you that the procedure concerning the acquisition of medium-sized multi-purpose helicopters based on the common platform for the Armed Forces was conducted from 29 March 2012 to 9 September 2015. Three offers were submitted in the proceedings: Airbus Helicopters, Heli Invest and WSK PZL-Świdnik with AW149 helicopter and Sikorsky International Operations and PZL Mielec consortium. The third party could not take part in the proceedings for formal reasons. All offers for delivery, attention, 70 units of helicopters were financially similar, but exceeded the value of the funds planned in the technical modernisation plan for this task. It is not by chance that I am talking about the number of 70 machines, because originally this was the number of machines to be bought for the Polish army. The decision was made to finance the task and increase the amount to PLN 13 300 million. At the same time, the number of helicopters was reduced to 50 units. It is worth noting at this point that the H225M Caracal helicopter has been selected in different versions. And at this point we also have to say that a significant proportion of these helicopters They weren't specialized machines. It was either a multi-purpose, transport version or a CSAR version. Ladies and gentlemen, precisely these machines, the cheapest ones, in this offer reaching almost 13.5 billion, were 42 pieces. It is worth recalling at this point, that is what Mr Mroczek said about the conclusion of the purchase procedure. On the side of the Ministry of National Defence, and I would like to say with full determination, the proceedings were concluded on 9 September 2015. It was a moment when the Armed Forces Inspector, when the Minister of Defense said, "Yes, we can buy." Let me remind you that the purchase procedure in this respect was carried out on the basis of the old offset law, which ordered the conduct of offset negotiations not by the Minister of National Defence, as it is today, but by the Minister of Economy. These offset negotiations started on 14 September 2015 and were conducted until 5 October 2016 in the Ministry of Economy at that time. Unfortunately, these negotiations did not lead to the signing of an offset agreement for the signing of a helicopter delivery contract. Therefore, on 7 October 2016, the Armed Inspector informed the Airbus Helicopters and Heli Invest consortium that the delivery of multi-purpose helicopters is being closed. The guilt is not on the side of the Ministry of National Defense. Once again, on the side of the Ministry of National Defence, negotiations ended on 9 September 2015. Ladies and gentlemen! Taking into account the failure of the procedure to implement modern helicopters based on the Common Base Platform into the Armed Forces, during the analyses carried out in the framework of the Strategic Defence Review and the work in the programming process for the development of the Armed Forces in the years 2017 and 2026, it has been indicated that one of the priorities of the modernization of the Armed Forces will be to obtain specialized helicopters that protect the needs of the Special Forces and the Navy. On the other hand, as regards the parts of tactical transport helicopters, following an analysis of the current state of operation in the Air Force helicopters, it was assumed that they would allow the task of the Armed Forces to be carried out in the current planning perspective. Taking into account the needs of the Land Forces to increase their ability to combat tanks and other armored vehicles, it was considered the most urgent to obtain impact helicopters under the Kruk programme. This process of acquiring helicopters under the "Kruk" programme is now beginning or continuing, an analytical phase is underway. I want to assure you from this speaker that the extraction process is due to begin in 2020. In the current planning perspective, by 2026 we intend to acquire one helicopter squadron, while the second helicopter squadron will be purchased after 2026. In total, we plan to purchase 32 pieces of these aircraft under this program. The acquisition of helicopters - this is an important issue, ladies and gentlemen - for the air troops protecting the activities of the Special Forces and the Navy was implemented on the basis of an urgent operational need procedure to implement these helicopters as soon as possible. In the first place, the purchase procedure for the CSAR version of ZOP was carried out between 2017 and 2019 in the number of four. The contract was concluded in 2019 and deliveries will be carried out by 2022. On the other hand, the agreement on multi-tasking helicopters increasing the capacity of Special Forces units in the number of four was concluded in 2018 and their delivery to the Polish army will take place by the end of 2019. The S-70i helicopters are designed to complement the security capabilities of the Special Forces carried out so far on the basis of 7. Special Action Squadron, currently equipped with Mi-17 helicopters. The value of signed contracts is 1650 million for AW101 helicopters and 680 million for S-70i helicopters respectively. When analysing the quantity of helicopters collected and the value of the negotiated contract, i.e. those 50 Caracal helicopters together with the training and logistics package, and the contracts concluded for the delivery of four Black Hawk helicopters and four AW101 helicopters together with the training and logistics package, it must be concluded that the financial consequences of the tasks carried out are at a comparable level. The unit price compared to those 50 and the unit price compared to those eight is at a comparable level. It is not true that the price of helicopters purchased by the Ministry of National Defence in 2018 and 2019 is drastically higher than that negotiated with Airbus Helicopters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's it for now. We're at your disposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? Then I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Artur Soboń, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps colleagues from the Civic Platform have carefully read the book by Mr. Generals, including interviews with several generals who held the highest positions in the Polish army at the time when the state was in power. There was an interview with General Duda's Chief of Armed Inspector, who said a few sentences I'd like to quote you. Well, what did he say in this interview, frankly and in my opinion, the general? The general said: I believe that the game was not about these 26, as initially stated, or 70 helicopters, as decided later. A company that would win this bid would actually dominate not only the supply to the military but indirectly also the civilian market. That's the truth. The game was all over the market. The game was about who would be the supplier. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The tender was conducted with one tenderer who took part in the tender, and you changed its terms as soon as... [[But it wasn't a game.]] ...you were Comfortable, also at the last minute, in a situation where you decided to change the number of pieces from 70 to 50. [[It's better not to buy at all.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This would mean the de facto liquidation of the defence industry, the helicopter industry in Poland. The signing of this agreement would result in the elimination of the capacity and competence in the production of helicopters that Świdnik has and those competence in the assembly of helicopters that Mielec has today. I have a question for the Minister: [[♪ The bell ♪]] What would be the consequences of signing this agreement...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u100	...and for own products, for Polish helicopters, and for... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u101	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Interview for interview - we all remember interview with Wacław Berczyński, Minister Macierewicz's advisor. What did he say? I'm the one who finished the caracale. And that's the truth of the invitation to tender. [[Applause]] This quote is still waiting for the epilogue, we are waiting for the prosecution to act because the tender was conducted according to Polish law and the Polish law was broken. What's the effect? There are no helicopters for the army, the Polish army will receive eight instead of 50, and I say: it will receive, because it has not yet received any of those that have been purchased. As of 2017, Caracal helicopters were to be gradually introduced into service. This is one loss, but we lost something else because we lost the offset, which was measured at the value of PLN 13.5 billion. Yeah, offset was supposed to balance... [[$30.5 billion. Even the biggest multipliers...]] Don't argue. Offset was worth 13 400 million. New jobs were to be created, a total of about 6 thousand, directly in production over 3800. Companies that would have obtained the right to produce components for Caracal helicopters would have worked for 30 years and would have joined the world elite. If you're talking about the game, it means that Poland lost this game. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u103	Thank you very much. We greet young people from classes VII and VIII from Pieniężna in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, which is at the gallery. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This debate, of course, will not be shown by the Polish Television for obvious reasons. It could turn out, after hearing all the information that will be presented here by the Members of the opposition, that this propaganda picture, which draws the Law and Justice, this great concern for the Polish army and Polish arms, is nothing to do with the reality that this formation, which unfortunately destroys, is still destroying the Polish Army, creates for three years. And I have to say, it's sad, because if you were still in line with what you're saying, you could applaud, but you've done everything for three years, and you've put that person at the head of the ministry to do this work of destruction without any doubt, and with that, I'd say, unbelievable satisfaction. I must say that the Minister came here, gave a number of statistics, procedures, made declarations from the speaker. Minister, that's why they didn't say such words, also from the destroyer of Minister Macierewicz, and unfortunately they didn't have anything to do with reality. The paper is patient, everything will accept, from the speaker you can say anything, but the basic question is: Why do you destroy the Polish army in 3 years, during these 3 years with stubbornness worthy of a completely different cause, destroy the arms industry? You have done nothing to make Poland a defence, an avant-garde in the world, so that our army is an army that can be used as an example. And I have to say this: over these three years, instead of arming, the resources have gone to asphalt, monuments, the Territorial Defence Army, which have nothing to do with modern defense standards. However, the State unfortunately did not purchase the equipment and in terms of [[♪ The bell ♪]] Caracale, about helicopters, this is a crown example. Minister, when will Poland finally receive these promised helicopters? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u105	Mr Wojciech Buczak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Minister! General! Officers! High Izbo! There are many adjectives in the point that we are considering today, and also in the proposal made by Members of the opposition, as well as in the fact that the actions of the current government are supposedly appalling. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything at all upsets you, it is an act, once, of your government. I remember that time when decisions were being prepared to buy French helicopters for the equipment of the Polish army. Very good that they were not finalised, and it did not happen because of the current government, any negligence, etc. We received this information, very thorough, ladies and gentlemen, on the Committee on National Defence. I will quote it to you here because a Member has just spoken about another 6,000. jobs and what it wasn't supposed to be about when it comes to the French offer at all. Mr President, you have received this information. New jobs - this is the information from the Ministry of Development, because it conducted offset talks: Airbus Helicopters both in the complex offset offer and at no stage in the negotiation of the offset agreement did not declare the creation of new jobs. It wasn't enough, they were talking about some kind of airfield... [[In your reality.]] ...about Radom, about new jobs. Those were dreams. Hence my questions to the Minister. First of all, did Airbus Helicopters' offer - in terms of jobs we know that it was zero - meet all the requirements set by MON in terms of the helicopter itself and its parameters relevant to the military? Secondly, is the Ministry taking into account matters that are also important for security in the case of decisions that are now being taken? It's about production here, in Poland, on the spot. Aviation Valley, which has 80-year-old traditions, staff, universities, educated people [[♪ The bell ♪]] For her needs, it guarantees these deliveries. Does the Ministry take these considerations into account? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have listened carefully to your speech, and I have some questions to be honest with you. The first question is: Does Prime Minister Morawiecki already know that you blamed him for the fact that the tender for the caracale was broken? [[Applause]] Does she know or doesn't know? It's a very important question. But if Prime Minister Morawiecki is to blame, then what did Macierevich thank Wack for? Maybe he should say thank you, Matthew. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You were talking about the fact that today the Polish Army has 250 helicopters, so I wanted to ask if this number is already without the few that have fallen in recent years, or whether from these 250 you have to subtract the few helicopters that have fallen in the last 2 years. I wanted to ask you what the defensive value of military aviation is today, since MiG-29 is being grounded all the time, they return to their flights, and then they're grounded again because they're in accidents. To this day, we do not know what is causing these accidents. There are no reports, and therefore there are no recommendations after these reports. The F-16 pilots are leaving for civil aviation and there's no one to fly. In addition, those who are associated with aviation say that they are actually prepared for use no more than 40% F-16. I wanted to ask you if it's a real number. Choppers are falling, too. We don't know why this is happening either. Here's what I'm going to say: In the interwar, the cavalrymen were on their way to the planes. We had pilots trained best in the world. If these airmen were to cross the other way today, that is to say, get on the horses, even [[♪ The bell ♪]] They won't get on the horses because you destroyed the farms. It'll end up when the pilots walk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u109	Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Sławomir Hajos, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Officers! High Izbo! The Ministry of National Defence purchased AW101 helicopters to combat submarines, as well as special forces helicopters. In his speech, the Minister has already partially answered my question, but I would ask you to answer the question once again, forcefully, to answer the question: At what stage are the work on fitting the army in a typical assault helicopter, for example under the Kruk programme? In what time frame? you can expect to strengthen the fire potential of helicopters by providing them with modern missiles, e.g. Anti-tank? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u111	Thank you. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Officers! General! The contract negotiated by the previous government was good for economic evaluation. There's been a situation for a dream trader. There's a new government that the contractor was ready to negotiate with. You could get an even more attractive price, but there was no economist sitting at the table. If the historian sat down to negotiate, the effect had to be predictable. That's what happened today. These facts have been established. For Łódź, Radom and Dęblin there were supposed to be 6,000. jobs, but there was also supposed to be a supply of modern technology. In Radom, the university has already started cooperation, patented a winch that could serve all over the world. We stopped it. We even lost our chance to develop Radom. I'm surprised, Minister, because the Minister is from Radom. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes. In Brussels, it is estimated that we are not the strongest negotiators. Then we buy helicopters. My question is, what did we really pay for? If we went into the store and picked them out of the shelves, they'd probably be cheaper. So what cost you so much? We don't have access to technology, we don't have jobs, and we don't really have... Some of those helicopters we bought are just transport helicopters, without any equipment. I have a question here, Minister: What is the yield? Why did we pay so much for helicopters? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u113	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. There isn't. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! General! Officers! I have the following questions. I ask the Minister to present how the concept of priorities for the purchase of helicopters has changed following the Strategic Defence Review. What kind of machines are most urgently needed by the army to carry out its tasks? In some ways, you've developed it, Minister. In addition, I have the following question. Please explain whether the planned purchase of 50 helicopters by the PO-PSL government according to specifications: 16 transport, 13 combat rescue, including six marine rescues, eight Special Forces support, eight submarines combat and five medical evacuations, was preceded by an in-depth analysis of military needs in this area, including with regard to the strategic perspective. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u115	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Magdalena Marek, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When the current government cancelled the tender for the purchase of helicopters for the Polish army, it mainly followed, at least as he said, the benefits for companies that produce in Poland, among others. It's about Świdnik, Mielec. Let us remind you: The Airbus was to deliver 50 helicopters for the amount of PLN 13.5 billion, of which 10 billion would cost the machines themselves, and 3.5 billion would be new technologies that would be used later in the future. In the meantime, where are we today? We have eight helicopters: four will be from Świdnik, four will be from Mielec - for an amount of 2,300 million. [[No, four from London.]] It's more expensive, and it's less expensive, Minister. Then maybe they will at least benefit from the plants that they produce in Poland, just as the announcements were made? Well, unfortunately, not quite, we can't agree with that, because for example. four helicopters will be produced in Świdnik, but most of them will be ceilings, ramps, and most of them will be produced abroad, as the Minister said. He confirmed this at the last session of the Sejm during the current questions. And although this Polish contribution to the production of helicopters will actually be a fig leaf, we will certainly be able to hear in government propaganda that helicopters are being produced in Poland. We will also have to remind about this case in August, because there will be a Polish Army Festival and you will certainly boast that you are arming, that you are modernising, that you are developing the Polish army, the army. And then we'll remind you, that's enough... In one opinion, we will be able to claim that you have reduced the number of helicopters produced six times. I believe and with all my responsibility I can say that I have great doubts as to whether your actions, these announcements, are worthy of a serious NATO Member State. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice takes care of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, but also seeks to develop the arms industry. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has repeatedly confirmed that the arms industry can be one of the flywheels of the Polish economy. Is it true, Minister, that at the time of the government of the PO-PSL it was planned to privatise the arms companies of the State Treasury, and this in practice could lead to the disappearance of this industry? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Generals and Officers! My first question is: Where is Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of National Defence? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Because since he is a minister, the Committee on National Defence has not had the honour of meeting and discussing important topics for the defence of our country, as well as the minister does not participate in meetings, in any debates which are taking place here, in Parliament of the Republic of Poland and which are also very important for the security of our country. [[Voice from the Chamber: He works hard, Member.]] Yeah, we see, yeah, he's picking up parades, organizing various other events, using officers to do that. PLN 13.5 billion was secured for the purchase of 50 helicopters, it was secured by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. What happened to them? Of course, you spent your time shopping completely unrelated to defense. You guys were buying fire department equipment, for the police, for the department of internal affairs, just not for national defense. [[The benches.]] Prime Minister Beata Szydło said in 2016 after you broke the contract, and it was very favorable, because for this PLN 3.5 billion, as for the purchase of 50 helicopters, we had an even larger offset provided under this contract for the purchase of caracalas, that it would be fast when it comes to the purchase of new helicopters. That's not what happened. But why did we lose the caracale? After all, you said, then Deputy Minister Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki, that the offset was insufficient. Currently he is the vice president of PGZ and somehow lack of offsets when buying Himars does not bother him at all. So what rules do we operate here, and what rules do we operate in? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't it to the detriment of national defense in our country? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u121	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we did not have time to welcome students of high school from the Marianska Forest, Janów Podlaski, who are leaving the gallery. [[Applause]] At least that's it. Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! General! For a long time and today we say that the Civic Platform has prepared a tender for the purchase of excellent French Caracal helicopters. Minister! Let me quote here: It has been known for a long time that the system with which Caracal helicopters are equipped is obsolete. These helicopters don't have a self-defense system, which means they're defenseless in the face of a modern weapon worn by a single soldier. [[Voice from the hall: Civil black hawks are there.]] High Izbo! Do you know who said those words? Gromosław Czempinski on TVP Info. Recently, a fantastic contract has been signed to supply the Polish army with helicopters. Minister! Both Polish helicopter manufacturers can and should be exporters of these machines. Minister, is this in the interest of Polish export and Polish economy? The lack of orders from the Polish army significantly reduces the negotiating position of our entrepreneurs vis-à-vis foreign customers. The government, when ordering helicopters in Poland, strengthens these companies. Minister! Does the opposition, which is so aggressively criticizing the purchase of helicopters in our companies, not harm Polish entrepreneurs? [[Applause]] [[These are not Polish companies. You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u123	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mr Marek Polak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u124	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to say that I was very pleased and satisfied with the information that the Ministry of National Defence last month decided to purchase four helicopters for the Navy of Poland, especially because they will be executed by our companies and our Polish companies will carry out an offset agreement. But it's just my knowledge and my point of view. I would therefore like to ask: Were there other offers, offers of other producers considered, as well as what criteria and arguments have decided to choose this particular producer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u125	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The current Polish government is very happy to buy Black Hawk helicopters in the S-70i version. This is a machine designed in the 1970s. Today we bought these helicopters for the police, a few months ago a contract was signed for the purchase of such helicopters for the Special Forces. I have some doubts about whether this helicopter is really suitable for the police, and for the Special Forces, which is to be used on the battlefield, but also to be used as a police helicopter, somewhere in the cities, and for completely different tasks. However, what combines these purchases is not only a matter of choosing a particular model of helicopter, but it is also a question of shortening procedures and referring to an urgent operational need, as well as a deadline for the execution of the order, which proves that they are not helicopters prepared specifically for Polish services and Polish troops, but only helicopters already ready, waiting for the manufacturer, standard, which will be delivered to Poland without special equipment. The result of such purchases is that we will have to buy this equipment in a moment, but the result is also that machines that will go to Poland, like helicopters that have gone to the police, will be used for many months to transport VIPs, and even to play it in election spots of politicians of Law and Justice, because such situations also occur, while they have not reached such readiness to bring them to the state of equipment. Well, I would like to ask the Minister, since you have decided to choose this helicopter, and to do similar things: Why haven't you decided to combine purchases with MON and MSWiA or even attempt to negotiate offsets? Mr Morawiecki's assurances that these helicopters are produced in Poland from the first to the last screws are so absurd and ridiculous that it is not worth commenting on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u127	Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u128	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Dear Officers! For us Poles, external security is and should be a priority. A strong Polish army is a strong Polish country. There is no doubt about it, and no one who is a healthy judge of reality will deny that the current government strengthens the Polish army. During the years of government, the Civic Platform with PSL did not spend PLN 12 billion. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: What amount of 12 billion for the Polish Army, which is irretrievably lost, could buy and acquire the present Polish Army? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u129	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the previous speaker from Law and Justice is right: a strong army is a safer Poland. But what we've been observing for almost four years is an absolute denial of that. All you have to do is look at today's O.R. Answers to questions, and the debate is attended by the Minister, who is not responsible for modernising the army. The one who's responsible for the upgrade isn't in the O.R. today. The consequence of this is... Look who's behind Mr. Vice Minister's back. Does this view give you any connection? Is this a civilian army watchdog? They're all uniforms. Why? Because the minister has to put somebody in his ear, he probably doesn't have any knowledge. I suppose so. Where is the famous faithful minister Macierewicz, who is guilty of what we have today, along with the Law and Justice? He's not here. And where is the Minister, Deputy Minister Dworczyk? Will anyone see him in this room? There isn't. And those who are talking about today's problem - look at this side of the room - there is as much as the cat wept. [[Enough, Member.]] That's the image of the state you're holding over the army. It hurts me very much what you did, what Berczyński said clearly: I finished the caracale. If you were to determine the value of 50 helicopters that you would have to buy at the price you're now buying these 8 helicopters, you'd have to spend 2.5 billion more. What about offset? What about jobs? There isn't. In my Łódź region there would be a chance for several thousand jobs, a chance for young, technically educated people, an opportunity for a technical university. There isn't. Have you thought about it? Not for a second. Minister! What you're doing now is a small step, and you have all your plans by 2026 when you're gone. Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because you don't know what to do. Why are you doing this, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u131	Mr Michał Jach, Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Officers! High Salo! We're talking about an extremely important issue. Minister, do you now imagine the theatre of war, the battlefield without helicopters? Can you imagine? Did you know that the needs of the Armed Forces are defined by the Minister of Defence, not by suppliers who show what they have to sell? I'm referring here to the purchase of Black Hawk helicopters. You bought the S-70i version. This is an outdated version, and the basic version has to be additionally equipped. There is not even an anti-icing system, not to mention a reinforced hull, a stronger engine or the possibility of refueling in the air. Special Forces need this equipment. The Americans have the HH-60w version. Why didn't you buy that version? Why didn't you buy the shell? What's it supposed to be for? I'm not talking about the number of helicopters bought. What are you gonna tell the airmen, the Air Force soldiers in the Great Lodge, Glinnik? You're bragging about 250 helicopters, 95% of which. is almost 100% Exploded. You can't imagine acting in a war theatre without helicopters. This is a reprehensible negligence. The annulment of the bid was a self-inflicted injury to the Armed Forces. Your attitude is best characterized by the words of Deputy Minister Kownacki responsible for technical modernisation of the Armed Forces: I do not really understand the interest of the state in helicopters, which from an operational point of view have a tenfold significance for the Polish Armed Forces. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u133	Mr Stefan Strzałkowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question of acquiring helicopters for the Polish army is a subject which has already been discussed three times at the meetings of the National Defence Commission and has repeatedly been the subject of current information during this term of office of the Sejm. I would like to ask the initiators of today's information: Isn't it high time you changed your thinking and stopped using the subject of defence of the state, whose strengthening is one of the most important goals of our government and should be the goal of the entire parliament, just to fight politically? Thank you very much. [[It's too serious, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u135	Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u136	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Finance. Is it true that under the current coalition the budget plan of the Ministry of National Defence is implemented every year 100% ? Is it true that during the 8 years of the coalition government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party the plan of expenditure was not left Haven't you done it once? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u137	Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u138	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Shopping for the army is supposed to improve our security and develop our economy. One of the most affected regions due to the withdrawal of the contract for the purchase of Caracal helicopters was Lubelszczyzna. It was in the Military Aviation Plant in Dęblin that important components of the helicopter multi-tasking platform for the Polish army were to be produced. Last month's contract for purchasing AW101 helicopters for the Navy brings bets in Świdnik to the role of supplier of upholstery and minor teams. [[Applause]] I must worry Mrs Marek - these are the words of Minister Skurkiewicz sitting here. I have to worry you, these helicopters won't be produced in Świdnik. They will be produced in Yeovil, England. [[Applause]] [[He already knows where.]] Yes, sir, that's where they're celebrating. [[Yeah, just like you guys were celebrating.]] These plants, Minister, have produced dozens of helicopters that have served in many places around the world. My question is simple. Minister, why, during numerous visits to Świdnik, Lublin, in Lublin, did you have the crew of the Świdnik airline plant? Why did you fool these people? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u139	Mr Adam Oldakowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u140	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Officers! Minister, is it true that Poland has negotiated twice the price of Caracal helicopters than Brazil? Is it true that Brazil not only negotiated twice the price, but also got the entire production line, which is the entire factory, for buying these helicopters? Is it true that caracals have not yet been tested in combat conditions, which means they have no combat experience? Is it true that in Poland, in Łódź, there was only supposed to be a assembly? Mr President, the assembly plant is not a factory, it employs much less people. Is it true that black hawks are among the best helicopters in the world, have repeatedly proven themselves in combat conditions and are constantly being upgraded? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u141	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking about helicopters for the Polish army, but it must be remembered today that S-70i Black Hawk helicopters for the Police were purchased from the Ministry of National Defence budget. This is the case, Minister, which is the most annoying thing for us right now. What are police helicopters purchased for anti-terrorist operations for? To make it easier for the minister to move from place to place during the election campaign? Was that the purpose of the purchase? Was the Ministry of National Defence spent on this? You are constantly bragging that Poland spends 2% GDP for defence. But where's the money going? They're going for Brudziński for a private taxi, for a private Uber, so it's easier for him to run an election campaign. This is an undoubted scandal. There was no justification, High Izbo, that the minister, who on the same day had state duties, but also campaign duties, because he had time to eat the fish, to go boating with President Kaczyński, to use the black hawk for his own affairs. [[Applause]] One of these black hawks is permanently stationed, High Izbo, in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. Is that a coincidence? [[Oh...]] There are no cases of this kind. And don't say in NATO any more, in other places, that 2% GDP is used to modernise the Polish army. You must now add everywhere that also for Minister Brudziński, because in the West Pomeranian province he needs special transport, which you have provided, ministers, generals of the MON, from the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. It's very sad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u143	We've exhausted the list of speakers. Now please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Czesław Mrocek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In this discussion, some of the PiS members referred to the first procedure, forgetting that the government, your government, had signed two contracts. At the moment we are going to compare the rejected contract, which was the result of the tender, with those two contracts, one of which was concluded without a tender, I was talking about a gross violation of public procurement rules in Poland by your government, and the other was a choice from one offer. You chose a better offer with one offer. That was the thing. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, you can say with full conviction, there is no longer any guess, you turned down a better offer to choose the worse one, you turned down a cheaper offer to choose the more expensive one, because today the average price of the helicopter from the proceedings that Airbus won is 200 million, and the average purchase price of these eight helicopters is 250 million. We're talking about the fact that you put the state budget at risk of losing several hundred million zlotys. Ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm gonna say. We submitted a request in November 2016 for a committee of inquiry to investigate this case. This proposal was already very well-founded at the time, and the request for a committee of inquiry at the moment is fully justified, in view of these losses of the state budget. We have also informed the prosecution and I will say this: today it is no longer the task of Members to find out why the government has rejected an offer better and cheaper and has chosen more expensive and worse. This procedure and investigation will be the task of the DA's office. If not now, because you're going to vote and you're not going to set up a committee of inquiry, and the prosecution isn't going to do it, then there's going to be a time when it's going to be necessary to explain why you turned down an offer better and cheaper and wanted to pay private companies a few hundred million more zlotys. We were talking about offset here. We didn't talk enough about offset, because offset in connection with the proceedings we conducted meant to build a great service center in Łódź to maintain these helicopters and to... I mean, it was on offer. Don't you know that? I think you're lying because you should know if you're in a debate. This meant setting up a French-Polish company. On the Polish side, several state-owned airlines entered and the production of these 50 helicopters was to be carried out in Poland. You have wasted the chance of Polish State Aviation Works, they no longer have a future. Comparing the contract with Brazil is pointless, Mr President, because it is necessary to compare the two contracts - the Airbus contract, cheaper and better, with the two contracts you have concluded. Once again, if we don't do this in this term of office, in the near future, if we don't set up a committee of inquiry, there will be a moment when you're going to explain it to the prosecutor. I will be happy to explain everything in this case, because the difference is that there was a tender in our proceedings, three foreign entities competed with each other in this tender and we did not favour any of these foreign entities. And you and the trade unions made an agreement before the election that this tender would be voided. You were friendly, lobbying for two foreign entities. You don't know who the contract was with? With an Italian producer and an American producer. In the case of black hawks, you bought equipment basically in the civil version. All experts say this equipment isn't suitable for the Special Forces. And today you have the nerve to come out here and talk about a good contract? This good contract means losses to the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the effect of the PiS government is this with regard to the technical modernisation programme: instead of 50 helicopters they got eight, but the money spent all. There's no more money to buy 50 helicopters. You bought five planes to carry power, you financed other targets. The army is secondary to you. It's the electoral business that matters. You'll pay for the damage you've done to the Armed Forces, the military. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u145	Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I know you don't like what I said about the facts, so the facts. But before I tell you the facts, it's a few words of admission. I particularly refer them to Mrs Radziszewska. Mrs. Member! You can't insult me, but don't insult the officers. [[I'm not insulting you. I'm stating the facts.]] I cannot be offended by you by denying me the authority, because I recall how you were the Deputy Minister of Health... [[Voice from the room: But it wasn't.]] ...and when you, as Deputy Minister of Health, sat here... [[But I wasn't.]] ...and you spoke. Does that mean you don't know anything about health care? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You know how to do health care. [[But, man, I wasn't the minister of health.]] Minister Łapiński, who is responsible... [[From the SLD, from the SLD.]] Minister Łapiński, who is responsible for technical modernisation, has been on leave for nearly 2 weeks. Ministers are also entitled to leave under the Labour Code. [[Is this the same hero from Podkarpacie?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about issues concerning helicopters, Polish plants and not only Polish plants. Perhaps today we wouldn't have any problems with Polish helicopter plants if it hadn't been for the decision of the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party of 2010... [[Tusk's fault.]] ...about selling bets in Świdnik to a foreign concern. You privatized Świdnik in 2010, and today you are tearing crocodiles because agreements with foreign contractors are being signed. This is a Polish plant, where Polish workers work. This is a plant that also multiplys the gross domestic product. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska spoke about MiG-29 and more about this topic today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is none other than the 2011 government that decided to extend the operation of MiG-29 aircraft by 10 years, yes. It was the Civic Platform government that decided to extend the operating cycle from 30 years to 40 years. But this decision of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak is a decision - I am convinced of it - a groundbreaking decision which, at a completely different point, places our Air Force in a completely different place. This is about the decision of the last months that we are speeding up the implementation of the Harpia programme and buying fifth-generation aircraft. This is already happening because the first F-35 aircraft squadron will be purchased in this perspective, as part of this modernisation plan by 2026. Second squadron - after 2026. And that's the facts. Ladies and gentlemen! Issues related to Airbus Helicopters. I will repeat what was said from this speaker: Airbus Helicopters neither in the submitted offset offer nor at any stage of the offset agreement negotiations declared the creation of new jobs. You're wrong. You've created this narrative about the creation of 6,000. jobs for the 2015 electoral campaign [[It's not true what you're saying. That's not true.]] These are facts. It's a country you've created that narration. [[Applause]] [[It's based on documents.]] The next issue was Caracal helicopters, which were to be delivered to the Polish army in the number 50. Tell you honestly that the first 20 pieces were to arrive in Poland already assembled in plants in the west of Europe. These are facts. The first 20 pieces for the use of the Polish army were to arrive complex. These are more facts that need to be said today. Ladies and gentlemen! And one more thing to finish. As I mentioned, the procedure at the level of the Ministry of National Defence ended in September 2015 and continued since 2012. Ladies and gentlemen! If the government of the Civic Platform, Prime Minister Donald Tusk and later Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz wanted to lead to the implementation of this purchase agreement originally 70 multi-purpose helicopters, and ultimately 50 multi-purpose helicopters, to do so. The Civic Platform would do that, but there was no will on your side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u147	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. [[In corrigendum mode.]] Member of the Commission, on the basis of the corrigendum. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Skurkiewicz is right, I am a doctor and I work on the Health Committee, but I was neither Minister nor Deputy Minister of Health. I don't know how you got that kind of knowledge, but it's okay. I understand that Minister Łapinski is not here, because recently the newspapers often write about him, and I'm not surprised he might be on vacation. But, Minister, the problem is that in 2007, this Mielec you're talking about and who's supposed to earn... Who sold the bets in Mielec? The Government of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] And now you're gonna tell me how much good you're gonna do for Mielec? This is border hypocrisy. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: You are talking about Świdnik.]] Minister! I'm talking about Mielec. I wish you'd noticed. And it's important to talk substantively, because facts are facts and you can't come up with facts next to them. The paper is patient and will accept all your words and speeches. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak signed on 28 February this year. the technical modernisation plan by 2026, which includes expenditure on modernization worth PLN 185 billion. This is PLN 45 billion more than the previous plan. Among the programs there are among others. Harpia - the purchase of fifth-generation aircraft, Narew - the acquisition of short-range anti-aircraft batteries, Kruk-- the purchase of assault helicopters, Orka-- the purchase of submarines. These ambitious plans to modernise the Polish Armed Forces are made possible by securing budgetary resources. How much budget resources did the PO-PSL government allocate to the technical modernisation of the Polish army in the previous term? Recently, the Government of Law and Justice purchased four S-70i Black Hawk helicopters for the Special Forces. This is the first purchase of new generation helicopters for the Polish army. What are the plans for extensive fleet exchange and modernisation? Which models of helicopters currently on the equipment of the Polish army will possibly be upgraded and which will be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u150	I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 56 hours 13 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. The Legislative Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 3466. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for this report. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote in a moment to complete the agenda. But first, a formal request from Mirosław Suchon had been made in writing. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I ask under the Rules of Procedure to interrupt this session of the Sejm, because the state, because the PiS is trying under the pretense of fighting paedophilia to do a disgraceful thing. Under the pretext of introducing rules that are supposed to fight pedophiles, you are trying to introduce rules that will result in the creation of a police state. I must say that this is an unprecedented situation in the High House, that Members, that the ruling majority is taking advantage of a situation that rightly causes an uproar of society, which has rightly become the subject of a debate which should rightly be resolved in such a way as to protect the victims in order to protect young Poles. Law and Justice uses this situation to push laws through the High House that have nothing to do with it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] problem. That's why I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u153	...to create a formula of time to...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u154	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u155	...the adjournment of this meeting... [[Not pedophile weapons, not guns.]] ...and in the framework of this break, the Law and... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u156	Thank you very much. This proposal is formally submitted, so I will put it to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 363 Members voted. For-- 144, against-- 217, holding off on two. The Sejm's motion is denied. Back to the point under consideration, I would remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: Report from the Legislative Commission on the Government Draft Law amending the Penal Code and some other laws, prints No 3451 and 3466, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 368 Members voted. For - 225, against - 140, holding down 3. I find that the Sejm has accepted the proposal to supplement the proposal. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on the added item on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection!]] [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] I heard an objection. [[And justification.]] [[Reason.]] Then we'll vote... [[First, it's a proposal to make it 15 minutes. I'll explain why, because of...]] [[But there's a proposal to object.]] First, we will vote on the proposal of the Sejm Bureau tabled by me. [[Voice from the room: But why?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 370 Members voted. 223 voted against - 146, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. [[We are against the mode in which you are leading these proceedings.]] We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Legislative Commission on the Government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws (Prints No 3451 and 3466). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 3451. The Legislative Commission yesterday examined this project. Several hours led to the adoption of the report. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, we have tabled 10 amendments. The amendments were mostly of a resultant, technical nature. In several places, they also changed the project in substance, such as raising the age, after which there is only a limitation of the offence, for example rape. All these amendments have been accepted by the committee, they have been accepted. I therefore request further investigation of the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u158	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Bartosz Kownacki on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my satisfaction that Parliament is able to work quickly on the legal solutions that are to Penallise these behaviours and strengthen criminal liability for some of the most hideous crimes. I would also like to stress that this project, which was said earlier, at first reading, was previously prepared by the Ministry of Justice. It's not a result. Ad hoc action, only a reliable, substantive, calm work previously held by the Minister of Justice. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] But since this is the case and not the other social demand, since this issue is emotional today, it is the responsibility of parliamentarians to get to work and work as quickly as possible. [[At least don't cheat. At least don't cheat.]] I have a question for Members of the opposition whether they are opposed to tightening up criminal liability for these disgusting sex crimes... [[You're just crooks.]] ...or do they think, because they may think, as they've been so far, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] that those who commit paedophile crimes should then take care of their children.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u160	Mr Meysztowicz, I warn you that you are interfering with the Sejm's deliberations again. [[Jurek, Jurek, careful, easy.]] [[Voice in the room: These rules do not apply to pedophiles.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u161	Because that's the kind of solution that doesn't allow us to contact our children, we're preparing. Mr Marshal, we are also proposing a number of amendments, because these solutions, although good, require some changes. [[Voice from the room: Smart-ass.]] [[It's a thoughtful project.]] And editorial, in our opinion, but also substantive solutions, for example concerning limitation issues. We want these paedophile crimes not to be statute-barred until the age of 40 is reached by the person who is the victim of this crime. This solution allows anyone who has been harmed as a teenager, as a small child, to grow up to this and prepare to defend their rights, and at the same time guarantees that criminals, criminals, those who commit these disgusting acts will not be able to feel safe for many, many years. We also propose solutions to strengthen criminal liability in organised criminal groups, including organised criminal groups, which commit paedophile offences. And I hope that this will also meet with the interest and positive response of the High House, including the Members of the opposition. Allow me, Mr. Marshal, to convey these amendments. [[There's still some adjustments. You can't even do the right thing...]] But there's another bottom in this case, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Jurek, Jurek...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u162	Mr Meysztowicz, I warn the Member once again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u163	Although the amendment concerns a serious, profound change in substantive criminal law, we all know that it focused on the discussion of paedophile crimes. And that's where the fundamental question arises. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u164	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the Parliament's deliberations. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: I'm calling you into order.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u165	What is the opposition really about? And let's take a look at history. In the previous term, when there were proposals for projects that tightened the criminal responsibility for paedophile crimes on the basis of which criminals would also be punished through the paedophile register, the ruling party was against it. When the law was amended, criminal law was amended, it led to a situation in which paedophiles quickly became unpunished because the limitation period for these offences was reduced. In whose interest, ladies and gentlemen, have you done this? In the interest of society or criminals, including paedophiles, who have benefited from your solutions? So the question arises as to what kind of business it was. [[What are you saying?]] And maybe it's not by chance what happened in Gniezno. Ladies and gentlemen, this Civic Platform was not free of people who were later accused of pedophilia. [[Voice from the hall: Catechist.]] [[You're brain-free, man.]] She wasn't free of them. Why would she do that? [[Voice from the room: Do you want to talk to...]] Why did she at the same time defend the criminal laws that supported paedophiles? It was necessary in the previous term of office of the Sejm to move towards the solutions that we proposed. [[Mr Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: A little decency, Mr.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u166	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are disturbing the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u167	At that time, our solutions were not met with the interest of the opposition, the ruling party. If she wanted to make a change after verifying her conduct, I'd be silent. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Only when we entered the record of pedophiles did the opposition stand up for those pedophiles again because they abstained from voting. [[That's not true! You're lying!]] Perhaps there were arguments for this, too. I read the transcripts from the committee meeting from that time. I accept those arguments. I don't really understand what you're talking about right now. Again, by torpedoing this project, by stalling it, you stand up for those who are criminals. You're hurting those people who are victims of criminals. [[What kind of stalling? Man, it got into the Sejm yesterday.]] I don't really understand what you're doing. I'm very serious about whether you really want to fight pedophilia or if it's that you hurt children and use them for your own political purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Borys Budka on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u169	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a disgrace how you treat this problem. [[Applause]] It's a disgrace how you treat victims of crime. It is a disgrace that you are once again using this case to drastically and absolutely incompatible with the Polish constitution of tightening the Penal Code in other places. We want a fair, real fight against this problem. Without the special committee we want to set up, there's no way to explain this case. [[Applause]] Because you're in a constant alliance, including those who've been hiding these cases. And today you're trying in an absolutely disgraceful way to pretend that you're fighting the problem of pedophilia. Why don't you want to disable the total limitation of this type of crime together? [[And how's that boy raped on your...]] Why in a strange way do you write into the Penal Code a rule that will allow only legal guardians of children to be severely punished without such cases as we have seen recently? Why, once again, do you say your Prime Minister's words cut off from the joint committee, which would explain all cases, including pedophilia in the Church? It's a simple question: who are you playing with right now? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[The committee immediately. What are you afraid of?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u170	Mr Nitras, do not shout. [[You won't shut me up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u171	Are you on the side of the victims, or are you on the side of those who have been hiding such crimes? [[What about the paedophile on the Platform?]] We have prepared amendments that will clearly and clearly show your intentions. We've prepared everything that's missing from your draft Penal Code because you absolutely don't want to settle this case. [[A conspiracy of silence.]] You're just trying to pretend to be in front of the public because you have a conspiracy of silence with those who, unfortunately, haven't reported criminals very often. [[Applause]] [[You and your paedophiles get settled first. The platform was hiding a paedophile in Gniezno, his activist.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now there's a test for you. If you declare today that we will set up a committee that will explain all these cases, then you will be credible. On the other hand, what you have put forward here in the High House is disgrace and shame, because once again you are becoming those who want to keep this matter out of the loop. Once again, you're facing crime victims. [[That's right. Where are the priests?]] And as for this famous pedophile ledger, it's hypocritical what you say because you want to stigmatize the victims because you want to stigmatize the children. You're populists. The public record of pedophiles doesn't do anything, but you're too weak to understand, because you're just populists. [[Applause]] [[You're defending pedophilia.]] [[The committee immediately.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u172	Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u173	High Izbo! The impunity of paedophiles in the Church is masked by the current government by raising the level of punishment. You have no good will or desire to protect your children. The only thing that directs you is the fear of low polls. You can save up to 100 years for pedophilia in the Penal Code. So what if it's almost 60%? The crimes of pedophilia committed in the Church have not been reported to law enforcement? [[Yes, sir.]] The law once again becomes a smokescreen for the politicians of the ruling party. Today's problem with fighting pedophilia isn't about the level of punishment, it's not that priests, paedophiles in the cassocks aren't in prison, it's just that they don't go to prison at all. [[Applause]] A particular problem in the case of the Polish Church lies in the impunity of those who were paedophiles. Whether we are dealing with a parish priest or with a bishop, justice requires that all who have been paedophiles, moving them from parish to parish, respond to criminal law. [[Yes, sir.]] [[And how did the Platform cover up?]] A fair principle must be followed: prison for silence. We will not allow any further disregard for the pedophilia problem. That's what the current government is doing. We're gonna protect our kids from paedophiles. We'll also protect our children from PiS politicians... [[Voice from the room: In front of the paedophiles from the Platform.]] ...such as Professor Legutko, who says that sexual abuse against a 12-year-old boy is not a pedophile. [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] [[Scandal! You should cross him off the list.]] We will have to protect children from PiS politicians, such as Peterowicz, who says that touching the reproductive organs of a several-year-old girl is bioenergotherapeutic activities. We're gonna defend our children against PiS politicians like Saryusz-Wolski, who says pedophilia is a dupe problem. Such effective protection will be introduced. We'll settle all pedophiles along with their allies. [[Applause]] [[We'll settle you. You're gonna get that stupid smile off your face.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u174	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. [[What are you laughing at? Is that what you're laughing about?]] You. [[Are you laughing at me? You're ignoring the problem.]] But don't yell. You're still interfering with the proceedings. [[Why are you laughing? Respect...]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[I'm talking about serious matters, and you're mocking me. Shame!]] Is he quiet? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish People's Party, which I represent, is in favour, as Pope Francis says in his last apostolic letter, to root out all cases of paedophiles... [[In the church.]] ...and the ones that came out of the Polish Church, and the others, to break any conspiracy of silence... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...who appalls and believes like me Catholics in Poland, and non-believers who today hope that this House will face it, and will not duck in the form of ploughing 1/4 of the Penal Code. Why? [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] I ask you, dear Members of the PiS: Why piercing 1/4 of the Penal Code on this occasion? [[It's for picu.]] Waiting for Poles is simple: stop pedophilia, explain all the circumstances associated with it. This amendment, as I said, is an amendment which, above all, Minister, will cause chaos in the Polish legal order. The Minister is probably proud of himself, as usual. You said yesterday that severe penalties are the most important ones, and that was the message of yesterday's debate. I'll give you an example that can already be assessed, given your changes in recent years. As a matter of fact, this applies to Article. 207 The Penal Code, which is also amended in this amendment. This is a crime of abuse against a family member or another dependent or helpless person. In 2015, the lowest crime rate for this type of crime - a total of 14 380 cases - was achieved. In 2016, it was worse - 266 more cases. As a result, at the beginning of 2017, the Minister decided to amend the article. 207 Penal Code. What Turns Out in 2017? There was an increase in the number of crimes by 1322 cases a year earlier. This is the result above all, Minister, of a bad criminal policy of a country based on the principle: I do not approve, but I understand. [[Hypocritical.]] Unfortunately, it is mainly the practice of applying the existing law, not its content, which leaves much to be desired under the government of the Ministers of Ziobra and Brudziński. Minister Ziobro was also very proud of the increase in the age of protection for minors from 15 to 16. It turned out that pedophiles would also have to be convicted of tens of thousands of teenagers a year, who are not pedophiles in any way. There would also be a problem with the minimum age needed to marry with the consent of the court in the case of women who are 16 years old, because the basis for legal action, which is marriage, cannot be a crime. You would have avoided these mistakes if you hadn't removed the Committee on Civil Law Codification, which hasn't existed for over three years now, Minister, and I'm sorry to say that. You also said that nothing has changed in the PO-PSL regime. That is when the Penal Code was amended, which increased the protection of minors victims of sexual offences, Minister, by extending the limitation period for criminal offences involving minors and by extending the catalogue of sexual offences the victims of which are minors. These are facts. This amendment, High Izbo, has a number of flaws. The extension of the limitation period in the case of sexual offences the victim of which was a minor, until the age of 40, is a good idea, but the introduction of a distinction between sexual intercourse and rape of a minor up to 15 years of age, while introducing a type of qualified in sexual intercourse with a child up to 7 years of age, is a serious mistake whereby sex with a young child may not be regarded as rape, and practically always is, taking into account the stage of his development and sexuality. To conclude my speech, which can unfortunately only last 5 minutes, because so much the marshal and the parliamentary majority appreciate the revision of the Penal Code, I would like to say that you will not hide your previous inaction by even the fastest amendment of the Penal Code in the history of Poland. It is your governments that have increased crime by almost 21% in the case of sexual abuse of minors and an increase in crime by nearly 46%. in the case of all crimes against sexual freedom... [[And what are you fighting for?]] ...and morals. This one, High Izbo, cannot be hidden. Polish People's Party is in favour of changes in the Penal Code when it comes to extermination of pedophilia, but this cannot be a way of escape from an important problem and what Poles expect from us today - to focus on [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the establishment of a committee that will explain all this in a factual manner... [[The Commission immediately.]] ...which is hidden under the rug. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u176	Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! The PiS under the coat of the fight against pedophilia really wants to introduce the dream of Minister Ziobra - the police state. Most of the provisions of this law do not apply to pedophilia, even more so: a fraction of the provisions of this law apply to pedophilia. At the same time, because you have a protective umbrella over the Catholic Church, you are afraid to introduce what should be introduced, a committee, an independent secular commission, which could reach church archives that could explain those cases of pedophilia that are not being pursued at the moment. You really don't want to really fight paedophiles, you don't want to stand up for the victims. You want to use pedophilia victims to do your current political interests by changing the Penal Code, making it chaos. Plus, let's notice what's going on right now. I don't know if you know what police headquarters are most interested in right now. They're interested in where the movie is being displayed. Just don't tell anyone. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir. Scandal.]] What does that mean? It means that you're not fighting pedophilia, you're not fighting pedophiliacs, you're fighting pedophilia victims, because there's a movie about them. Just don't tell anyone. That's your perfidy... [[You're scared. A conspiracy of silence.]] ...and that is your hypocrisy. It's just that there's nothing more cruel when you want to be a politician at the expense of your victims. You're talking about the transparency of the register. He hits the victims most. You're talking about change. They don't strike against appearances at the perpetrators in collars, they hit more at those who are family because that's how you shaped the law. This bill is a legal buffet, a dangerous legal buffet. On the other hand, if you are not afraid, set up a committee, an independent committee that is able to fully explain paedophilia in the Church. She's the only one with real legal power. [[Applause]] [[Let's call it. Sejm.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u178	Member of the Commission, Marshal Barbara Dolniak, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You write in the justification of this project that the aim of the change is to strengthen the sense of security in connection with the most serious crime. But it must be borne in mind that the main objective of criminal law is not to protect a sense of security, but to ensure real security, not its sense. [[Applause]] That's one thing. Secondly, everyone has the view - and this is supported by research - that the preventive nature of the penalty is demonstrated in the first place not by its severity, but, ladies and gentlemen, what? Inevitability, inevitability of punishment. The certainty of punishment, though moderate, is more impressive than the fear of another more severe punishment with which the hope of impunity is combined. For what is it that we have in our code a severe punishment when the perpetrator of this punishment is not subject to it, for there is no action against it? The perpetrator must be aware of this, and every one of us citizens, that if he violates the law, he will be punished. You're saying that this is about increasing criminality for the most serious crimes. But, ladies and gentlemen, these most serious crimes are just 2% of all crimes. We most often have minor crimes, and here you have no systemic solutions. For 10 years the level of crime in Poland has been falling. You do not present any statistics that justify the content of the changes you propose, or the type of offences, or the penalties that are systematically imposed by the court. Not even a small part of this statement was addressed in this explanatory memorandum. The perpetrator, who commits a crime, who violates the law, must be aware that the State will ensure that if he violates the law, he will be punished. Then the potential perpetrator will be afraid of committing a crime. [[And this punishment is supposed to be mild?]] Appropriate, sir, to the act that has been committed. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Is he supposed to get back to the crime as soon as possible?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u180	Don't disturb me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u181	It's best to put him in a penitentiary where there's overpopulation. Nor do you show how you will cope with an increased criminality with an absolute sentence of imprisonment. Plenty of trials for damages... [[That's what the judges think.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u182	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u183	Clearly, you have never dealt with justice and punishment. The perpetrator has to be placed in a penitentiary for him to be punished. What is the situation in Polish prisons, we all know. When creating the law, you have to think about introducing system solutions, and you have gone the easy way, the easiest way. You've sharpened your punishments because it's the simplest explanation, but you haven't thought of a system solution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The most important thing is the inevitability of punishment...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u184	Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u185	...with the right dimension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u186	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that 180 pages of the bill are to be announced in 3 days shows the real face of the Law and Justice and the true face of you, Minister Ziobro. You show me you're on the side of paedophile priests. From this point on, I would like to thank Professor Monica Plakek, who spent the whole night analyzing the absurdities of this bill, which I will now present to you. What doesn't the bill introduce? It shall not change the time from which the limitation period in the event of harassment occurs despite the request that the limitation period be. It abolishes criminal liability in the event of sexual abuse of the child's relationship. What else is outrageous about this bill? The introduction of the term in other provisions remains under the supervision of priests. This law does not criminalize, does not qualify for severe sexual harassment of children, and this qualification concerns the most common acts committed by the people of the Church. Nor does this law introduce a definition of rape as required by the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family. Now, in order for rape to occur, violence, coercion, or deception must take place. And that doesn't change. And the convention clearly requires that a situation in which sexual relations occur without the consent of the victim be raped. In this regard, you are showing that you are on the side of paedophile priests. You are using the film by Tomasz Sekielski and the whole debate on pedophilia in the Church to stand on the side of the impunity of the Church. [[Applause]] The proposed changes in the criminal law that you are presenting here - the 118 pages you want to announce in 3 days - guarantee not high penalties for priests, but impunity for priests. All of you, if you pass this bill, you will stand on the side of priests who rape and molest children. This law is written for priests to avoid this impunity. [[The voice from the hall: What is this nonsense?]] This bill is so you don't have to explain to the bishops about it. You're on the side of the unsubs, not the victims. [[The voice from the hall: And the artists, and the actors, and the journalists?]] Minister Ziobro! Minister Ziobro! You're a lousy lawyer. [[A voice from the room: Let him tell you. Well, tell him to tell me.]] I don't need much time here. You're a lousy lawyer, and we all know it. Sir, at least since the time of Montescius, it has been known - not the severity of the punishment, but its inevitability is important. You're embarrassing yourself here. You're compromising the entire legal system. [[Voice from the room: You're embarrassing yourself.]] [[You want to release pedophiles from prison.]] And if you pass this bill with your hands and with your men today, it will stand on the side of paedophile priests. Remember that, because you're the one who's gonna be accounted for. [[Voice from the hall: What about the Poznań Nightingale?]] [[Voice from the room: A Timochowicz.]] You're not on the victim's side. You're on the paedophile's side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u188	Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project contains, above all, records that talk about child protection. [[You didn't read it.]] Pedophilia is the worst. And we only hear here, of course, that it's the Church. Yes, it is very reprehensible and I agree with that, but we must point out that this applies to different environments. And the fact that the penalties will be greater is that the limitation will be later, that is, I think it's right. And that's what you should focus on. I address the representatives of the Civic Platform. Why hasn't such a project been introduced earlier, just tightening the penalty against paedophiles? [[But we've put in a tougher punishment. In 2010, we introduced a tightening of penalties.]] Pedophilia says no. [[Would you like to speak to the committee?]] And the fact that we're working on this bill today, you should say, by all means, stop pedophilia. This should never happen because the victim can't get out of the trauma he's experiencing for the rest of his life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u190	Thank you very much. Sixteen ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: I'm still here.]] [[Voice from the room: Can we still do it?]] [[I'm sorry. I just wanted to ask you a few more questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It must be made clear that this situation does not have a precedent in the High House. There is a gross violation not only of good morals, but of ordinary human decency, because it is necessary to be really indecent to direct a project under the cloak of the fight against pedophilia, which is in fact a police law that you wanted to push through many months ago, but you did not have the courage to direct it to the Sejm because it is so bad. And today you're using these victims. Today you're taking advantage of the situation, today you're taking advantage of public uproar -- the right thing -- but you're using it to do your own private party business. The people who got hurt, the victims of pedophilia, you're not interested at all. I wonder how you guys can get up in the morning and look yourself in the eye in the mirror. I don't get it. [[Voice from the room: We don't have mirrors.]] This should not be the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you have any decency... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[The voice from the room: Good is good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! Minister! So what if we increase the pedophile's sentence, like the number of convicted sex offenders, including those hiding under the casket, will be traceable. An example of the recent statistics that Mr.Patryk Jak boasts, using them as an explanation, that in the Polish Church there is basically no big problem of pedophilia. The Episcopate itself revealed in its report 300 priests of pedophiles, whom he identified and wrote down in his report. And what about the statistics that the Ministry is using today? Two priests. What does that say? That you are completely disabled in solving this problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u194	Member of Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u195	Poles expect that the Church will not be outlawed, that priests will deal with exactly the same principles as everyone else. Two months, Minister Ziobro, have passed since the report came out. 382 priests. The Church itself confesses to this. My question is, what did you do about it? How many witnesses were questioned? How many priests arrested? How many secured documents? What did you do about it? [[The D.A. didn't open an investigation.]] No more conspiracy of silence. You say in this room, "What about the artists, what about the guardians?" Public television says, "What about bricklayers? Because bricklayers are the most important. No bricklayer who does this kind of thing is being punished for another construction like a priest who, for punishment, is transferred to another diocese or parish, only goes to prison. That's what this is all about. You're doing everything you can not to punish any priest. It's not about attacking the church. It's about honesty, justice and punishing the guilty. Why are you covering for them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u196	Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Ziobro is now dressed up as a feather fighting pedophilia, but there is a question of this report, which Mr Sławomir Nitras asked about. 2 months. How many investigations? Have you even applied to the Episcopal for this report? Has any of the persons mentioned in this report been questioned? Has any person, any priest mentioned in this report, been questioned by your servants about what he was doing? No. The Lord did not have the courage to call these people. You didn't have the courage to send the police to these people at 6:00 a.m. You have the courage to deceive the High House that you will fight paedophiles. You've had time to fight paedophiles. The last two months are the time for your omissions. And for that, you'll be settled sooner or later. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Very good. Very good.]] [[Voice from the hall: You are accounted for.]] [[Voice from the hall: We are waiting for you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u198	Mr Marek Owa, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! Dear Pisces! You took the Church as your hostage, you put a gun to his head and treated him like private property, including that pedophile ring. And today you want to change the subject. You're not gonna make it. Let me remind you: a month ago, you were applauding archbishops. Jędraszewski, as he said, was a conviction for a pedophiliac card. Pella in Australia is an example Christian persecution. You gave him an ovation. [[Yes, sir.]] Today Poland needs a state commission to settle crimes of pedophilia in the Church. And don't change the subject, because you're not gonna make it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! You can't escape. You're gonna be in front of this committee on your own.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u200	Member Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Now PiS Members want to fight pedophilia, but they don't really want to explain what's going on when it comes to pedophilia in the Catholic Church. However, Minister, can you explain this when you kneel before Fr Rydzyk every year in Toruń during his birthday? Are you really able to fight pedophilia in the Church? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Your candidate for Europarliament Prof. Ryszard Legutko said that research shows that 80% cases of abuse involving boys aged 12 to 17 are not pedophilia, it is simply pederastia. [[You should throw him off the list.]] That's what you said. That's how you treat this problem. What should happen at the moment if your man, your candidate for Europarliament, says such words, ignoring it? Will you stand in front of the parents of those children who were raped? [[Twelve-year-olds.]] This man should be removed from the electoral lists right now. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Let him look in the eyes of his victims.]] It's gonna be a test to test your true intentions and true actions in the fight against pedophilia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u202	Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! Cases that are described in the film Tomasz Sekielski do not fulfil the definition of rape contained in the article. 197 Penal Code, because these are other sexual acts. Of course, in the context of these changes that you are proposing, nothing changes, because prosecutor Ziobro suggests an increase in the penalty for the rape of a child under the age of 15 years, and this rape is inappropriately defined in the article. 193 § 3 takes place when such rape occurred against the will of the child and under the influence of violence, coercion or deception. Rape involves anal, oral or vaginal intercourse; other behaviours are referred to as other sexual activities. And what's here? Touching, masturbating, hugging, the whole sphere of bad touch. That's exactly what you don't want to touch, which is why you're responsible, and you'll be responsible for all the perpetrators in the caskets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u204	Member of Margaret Chmiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u205	Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal to tighten the Penal Code is merely a collusion of silence with those who hide paedophilia in the Church. After all, covered paedophiles do not go to court at all because they are protected, so such a tightening of punishment is not terrible for them. Therefore, I think that these changes are simply agreed, the church - PiS, and priests should suffer the same punishment for pedophilia as all other Polish citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Do you hear yourselves?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u206	Member Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, the proposal of this law in such a form is a contempt for human rights. You want to kill violence with violence. You are sanctioning violence at the legislative level, at the state level, while stressing that priests who commit pedophilia violence - do I speak Polish well? - they're not protected by you. It is unacceptable that today, when we are shocked by this situation that emerges from the appalling film by Tomasz Sekielski and Marek Sekielski, we cannot deal with it as a society. We need the ethical dimension of this debate. We need a real debate about Polish society and Polish democracy. And you're just protecting the church, the party church that rapes young clerics today, rapes young girls, rapes children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u208	Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For a few days the government tells Poles that it wants to take an effective fight against pedophilia. But that's not true. We all know a saying: if you're doing something, do it right. And how do the government and the marshal proceed over this bill? The Rules of Procedure provide that the first reading of the draft amendments to the Code shall take place not earlier than the 14th day following the date of delivery to Members of the draft. The second reading of the project may take place not earlier than the 14th day following the date of delivery of the report to Members. We break the procedure, we break the constitutional rule of the democratic rule of law. Every lawyer, every defense attorney in the criminal trial, who will have the basis for these laws that have been amended today, will make that plea in court. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it will destroy the plan... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Charek, we need to change the judges.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u210	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to repeat my question at first reading, but in a broader context. Namely, the crime of pedophilia is unfortunately identical to the crime of murder. I am talking about the case that took place years ago in Belgium, where the paedophile mob using young children in a perfidious way, did what she did, and then the state, because that's the way it has to be said today, the Belgian European elite has covered it up. I would like to ask if this solution proposed by you today guarantees us that our children will be safe, of course, to the extent that we are able to secure it. That's one thing. Secondly, of course, I am referring to the mafia and paedophile gangs that operate all over the world. Just read about it on the Internet, we can all know about it. Are you sure this solution will keep our children from... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u212	Member of Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u213	Please answer clearly the question as to whether, on the basis of the revision of the Penal Code, the church hierarch who covered for the paedophile, moving him from the parish to the parish, he will answer for this action. Please answer unambiguously: Will the church hierarch who has learned about the possibility of a sexual offence committed by a priest towards a child be responsible for the act of not informing the law enforcement authorities about it? Please answer these questions clearly, because Poles need to know whether all citizens, whether they are secular or priestly, are equal to the law. Looks like you didn't. I want you to answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u214	Mr Szczerba, Member of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u215	Archbishop Jędraszewski said about the process of Cardinal Pedophile in Australia that fundamental human rights are being violated. You made Stanisław Piotrowicz responsible for human rights in the Seym. This is an example of your approach to pedophilia, too. Second thing. I don't see President Kaczyński, and it's high time the President came to the stand and apologized, apologized for Richard Legutka's words. Richard Legly sexual crimes against 12-year-olds called them yesterday, said about them: this is not a pedophilia. Richard Legutko should be out of public life. Richard Legutko should be removed from the Letter of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] Jarosław Kaczyński should answer why this man, Mr. Legutka... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Piotrowicz.]] ...in 2007 he made the Minister of Education responsible for 4 million students. This is an outrage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u216	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The test of your honesty, the fact that you really want to fight pedophilia, is precisely the example of Mr Richard Legutka, whom you finance the campaign you promote, who represents you first on the list or second, I do not know. If that's your way of fighting pedophilia, that means you're completely dishonest and two-faced. [[Unbelievable.]] Get Professor Legut off the list right now. What's the problem? I don't get it. Don't promote him, don't finance his campaign, don't act like he's your face. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What about Saryusz-Wolski?]] Saryusz-Wolski - the second such number. Next case. There were ecclesiastical reports, there was a report of the Foundation. Don't be afraid. How many cases have you implemented on the basis of these reports, how many charges have been filed? After all, there are laws that punish pedophilia right now, there are paragraphs. You're not doing anything about it at all. And one last thing. The ecclesiastical commission, the secular commission, is necessary because the victims are so traumatized that they do not want to go to the bishop now, report about their sufferings that have survived. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u218	Marshal Barbara Dolniak, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u219	We have a problem, a serious problem not because the court did not punish the perpetrator of the offence against the minor, because he withdrew from it or forgiven the perpetrator of the crime, but because the perpetrator was not brought to justice. That's why there's a problem that we have today. We have legislation at the moment, there is no legal gap that would avoid criminal offences against a minor criminal liability. You explain to the public that you are abolishing the statute of limitations on these crimes, but only in one case, in the case of a rape offence committed against a minor under the age of 16. Meanwhile, there are a lot of these crimes, and you're talking about abolishing the limitation at all. I have a question about statistics. Tell us what crime has been like in the last 10 years and what it's like to be punished in relation to the crimes committed, the minor ones and the heaviest ones, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not in individual cases, but according to statistical data. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u220	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! That's the question. What is your justification for such a wide range of amendments to the Penal Code? If you're talking about the fact that it is, and here we agree to an exceptionally, social expectation of changes in law enforcement, disclosure, countering the concealment of pedophilia to the youngest, then why do we want to update this code so widely? Why aren't we focusing on a few specific records that would be expected? It doesn't serve anything the kind of legislation we do. Penal Code revised 17 times, Penal Code implementing - 15 times, Penal Code amended 24 times. What's the effect? Most crime statistics have been increasing avalanchely in recent years. Well, it's better slower, more effective, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u222	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I ask you to answer the question of why the District Attorney's Office in Warsaw refused to initiate proceedings for the investigation I requested from the article. 240 criminal code. I submitted the application after the report of the Polish Episcopate Conference, where there were 600 probably sexual crimes committed by clergymen. None of these crimes have been reported to law enforcement. I filed a notice to the D.A.'s office on this matter, and the D.A.'s subpoena refused to initiate proceedings in this case. Why? Because you wanted to protect him. You were hoping this movie wouldn't get public, and you'd be able to sweep it under the rug again. That's what you meant - to protect. The case concerns pedophilia in the Church, because the Church is an institution which systematically hides pedophilia. We know perfectly well he can't handle it. There is a need for a secular committee to examine this, and there is a need for the action of state bodies such as the prosecutor's office. And the prosecution you're overseeing protects paedophiles in the Church. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u224	The list of Members has been exhausted. Mr Zbigniew Ziobro has the floor now. You're welcome, Minister. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Don't forget to say 500+.]] [[And VAT.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a saying: screaming is a sign of weakness. That scream of yours, those invectives, those nicknames... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Who yelled yesterday?]] ...which you want here to cover up your helplessness in hiding your idleness, which over the years... [[Purple on your face.]] ...has accompanied your governments and your actions in the fight against crime, also, although not only with paedophile crime, is an effort doomed to failure, because Poles see facts, they see that it is necessary to distinguish between those who scream, who have a mouth, a proverbial mouth full of phrases, and to you this saying fits like a charm, from those who can show that they have taken concrete actions. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The blush of shame on your face tells more.]] I could give many examples here that will confirm what I just said, but I will only appeal to some that are, I think, enough to justify it. 2007. When I was the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, I prepared changes to the criminal codes that involved what? After all, they concerned, among other things. The fight against paedophile crime. Or will you deny it? And what was your vote then? Have you voted in favour of tightening up the punishments I have proposed for these paedophiles and those who act softly and those who act brutally? [[How many have you condemned?]] How did you vote for or against? Do you remember? Then reach out to the results of these votes. How did the Civic Platform vote? How did the PSL vote? How did you vote on our proposals then submitted to give the courts and prosecutors better tools, other than penalties, such as criminal measures that would effectively isolate the perpetrators who will be released after they have been punished so that they can't have contact with children so that electronic surveillance can be used, these electronic bracelets can be used and their operation monitored? How did you vote then? Were you for or against it? [[Voice from the room: Of course not.]] You've been in charge for eight years. What did you do that night to tighten up the criminal responsibility... [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero.]] ...in front of pedophiles: and those in cassocks, and those without cassocks, because everyone in front of the law should be equal, and everyone should be equally resolutely treated if they commit such crimes. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] What have you done in eight years? You had the whole state apparatus in your hands. You had a whole legislative machine. You had your president, your prime minister, everything in your hand. So? Nothing. You have reduced the age of limitation by 5 years, contrary to what you say. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] You gave a gift to the paedophiles by five years, reducing the limitation period. Yes, you have made one change that was beneficial, not because you wanted to, just because you had to, because there was an implementation of a directive of the European Parliament which ordered that the limitation period... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Are you screaming?]] It wasn't until 30 years later. If a child experienced such a tragic event as a pedophilia crime turns 30 years old, only then can the offence become obsolete under this directive. [[A cry is an expression of weakness.]] And you had to do it, it wasn't your initiative. You were doing what was necessary, otherwise the TSUE would have taken care of you. And to the rest of the day, you've reduced the statute of limitations by five years. Check it out. You made a gift to the paedophiles every time you refused to support those changes that hit the paedophiles we applied. And you can check it, it's facts, it's actions, it's not words. Your actions were always against it. It served pedophiles. You were a party, you might say, a pedophile-supporting camp in that sense. You didn't care about the victims... [[Applause]] [[What's that even?]] ...in deep respect. This pain, this sensitivity to children is only beyond your actions, because if someone listens carefully to what you say, you do not care about children at all. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Why are you screaming?]] You're not interested in children. [[Member Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: A sign of weakness.]] You're interested in political warfare. [[Applause]] You want to take advantage of these appalling, horrible, damned events that have also taken place in the bosom of the Catholic Church, which have not met with an appropriate response. I speak here as a Catholic and a man who is involved is a believer. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] You're using these facts that have been shown in an emotional message... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Real.]] ...to fight against the entire Catholic Church to move these extremely shameful events that require the harshest reaction, if only the law allows, of course, if things have not expired, to move on to all priests and the whole Church. Because you guys... That's your goal. And anyone who can listen and have ears, and anyone who has brains, knows perfectly well, understanding this context, what's happening here, that it's not about pedophiles, it's not about those children being hurt, it's just that that's your main goal. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] And the pretext is to fight paedophiles. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] If it weren't, you would have proposed, in 2007 over political divisions, what I was proposing at the time, or powerful weapons in the fight against paedophiles, hitting these paedophiles so they couldn't go free and hurt children. I'll give you an example. One of those pedophiles from the Sekielski Brothers' movie. I'm not sure I remember the name correctly. It's about a pedophile priest who was arrested and later convicted when I was a prosecutor general in 2006. Unfortunately, contrary to my requests, you did not tighten the criminal policy at that time, and what court later passed a judgment? This was the verdict that this paedophile's perpetrator in 2012 could have harmed other children in Wrocław, in a hotel, in your rule. If I had put in place the solutions I proposed in 2007, he would have been in prison for many years. What you're telling here, these andronics, these theoretical stories from universities that have as much to do with reality as the nose fist that counts, the inevitability doesn't count, they're bullshit. Don't talk such nonsense. [[Applause]] The example of this priest shows best that a paedophile caught and properly punished would not harm any more children. He'd just be behind bars. [[All your life?]] It's the right thing to do, it's the whole life. Then it's the release of Trynkiewicz. As long as it's inevitable, let it go. [[Applause]] You could even file a motion, right? Ask for pardon, for inevitability. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] So you know, don't tell people such nonsense, Poles aren't stupid. They're pointing to it. [[It's an insult.]] Poles are smart. According to the research we're doing yesterday, I was quoting the results of four public opinion studies that clearly indicate that they want a real tightening of penalties against the most serious crimes, including paedophile and sexual crime. And that's what we're proposing. We proposed this already in 2007, and you were against it and thus defended paedophiles and other dangerous criminals. Now you're feeling sorry for each other. We want in this code. chase much harder, e.g. violent mobsters, members of organized crime groups. Well, that's too bad. Oh, how poor they'll be. We want to severely punish murderers with special cruelty. Well, that's a shame, poor killers. Or will you pity those who take away for ransom, whom we also wish to punish harshly? Rape, in this case, an adult woman. Yeah, we want to radically tighten up the criminal code. You don't like that? Today, a woman's rapist can only get 15 years in prison. With these changes, he can go to jail for 30 years. And he should be... [[Where?]] Yes, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Where? Where?]] Jail. [[Voice from the room: Where?]] [[Voice from the room: Where to?]] Jail. [[Applause]] A bandit, a rapist, should never get out of jail. I'd never let a bad guy like that out of jail if it were me. [[Sick man.]] [[Voice from the room: Say it again. Where?]] Yes, sir. If someone rapes with special cruelty... [[Voice from the room: Say it again!]] Yes, sir. I use that language, I use the language of those you defend. There's a place for him. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And Saryusz-Wolski will explain this problem?]] Well, a rapist, a man who rapes a woman with special cruelty, should sit behind bars and never see the world again. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] That should be the law. What does it mean to rape with special cruelty? [[Voice from the room: What does the President's father say?]] It means maiming a woman permanently not only on the soul - it is not only about her psyche - but also on the body. Women are often mutilated, cut with a knife, plucked out their eyes during rape, broken their limbs. [[Sick man.]] There are cases. Today, only 15 years of imprisonment is punishable. Are you guys feeling bad about this? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Yes, sir. I use a language that is the language that goes to those bandits who commit such acts. They must be sent to them, to their consciousness, and kept in prison if they commit this evil act. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The problem is not that priests are too short in prison. They don't go there at all.]] It's a moral imperative. That's how I feel. That's justice. Therefore, women - and often, similarly, parents of children - did not report the fact that they committed violent sex crimes because they knew very well that the case would probably end with probation, because this kind of sentence is 40%. They didn't want to put their children at risk, and these women didn't want to put themselves at risk -- trauma, shame, the experience of all that awaits them in court, when the punishment will be suspended, and the perpetrator will laugh in their face again. You want to defend these perpetrators, you're against our sharpenings, and I want to put them in jail. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. And I want them to be afraid of this prison, so they don't commit these crimes, these hideous, horrible, horrible crimes, whether they're priests or anyone else. I hope you change your mind and don't tell me that it's not about rawness, it's about inevitability. These factors have to go hand in hand. Moreover, strictness is what helps to act inevitably because it induces victims to report to the prosecutor's office. If the victim knows that the perpetrator, her torturer, her torturer, is going to prison for years, then he has the motivation to go to the police and notify them, and if he knows he's about to walk out, he's gonna laugh in her face and intimidate her, he won't go to the police, because she'd be silly if she went, because she'd put herself and the whole family at risk. It happens so often today. These changes are precisely what they do to change that. [[Applause]] It also affects the inevitability. Raw materials are linked to inevitability. Don't tell me it's different. You lie and manipulate. You didn't make those changes I was talking about. You have not entered an open register, which you do not like, although it is a tool used in many civilized countries, starting with the United States, which have made these changes, meeting the expectations of the environments and associations of those affected by pedophiles. It is precisely as a result of the actions of associations of victims of pedophiles that have been created records of pedophiles in the world, in many civilized countries. We have accepted these solutions, introduced them into our order. You don't like that either. You did nothing to introduce obligations in the Polish legal order, the obligation to inform law enforcement authorities if someone found out about the fact that a paedophile crime was committed. You've been in charge for eight years, and you haven't done anything about it. We were the only ones who introduced this solution into the Criminal Code in 2017. This was the President's initiative prepared together with the Ministry of Justice. It is thanks to us, only from now on, that people can be hunted theoretically in any institution, including the Church, if it can be shown that at that time, since the time these laws entered into force, i.e. since the end of 2017, they knew, had reliable information about the fact of committing the crime, and yet did not report to law enforcement authorities. It wasn't a crime before. It wasn't a legal order at all before. Before that, it was just a social responsibility. What did you do to change that? We did it. Actions - here, and you've only got a mouth full of clichés. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I was sad to hear many arguments so demagogical and so stupid - you can say: stupidity doesn't hurt - it's hard to comment. It is difficult to refer to the charge that these proposals that we are making are supposed to serve the milder treatment of paedophile priests. You've got to really hit your head and jump if somebody's talking that nonsense. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] These solutions, which we are introducing, will strike at potential paedophile priests with absolute ruthlessness, will radically increase their responsibility, as will all other professional groups. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Art. 197.]] In a word, do not be so hypocritical, for you are so hypocritical and cynical that you can see it. Not caring about these child abusers, their pain and suffering, is your primary motive. Your main motive is your desire to fight the Church. Those vile events that took place in the Church, which should be much more rigorously pursued, and we agree with that, you want to use them to burden all those who are associated with the Church. That's your goal, and the kids are just a tool. We think differently and this is witnessed by actions, not words, because if you cared about these children, you would make all these changes in criminal, procedural and material law, changes that serve children, serve them to protect them and to fight paedophile crime effectively. You didn't, we did. We did. [[Applause]] That is why, sir, dear fellow PSL, is growing at this moment... You say paedophile crime increases by 40%, you show statistics. Think about it. [[A voice from the room: Think about it!]] ...because if you're in the Seym, it's worth having a certain skill of using gray cells and drawing some conclusions from the facts. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's too hard for him.]] [[Voice from the room: Chamskie.]] Sometimes it is a problem, but in order for Poles to have a better opinion about us, it is worth at least pretending that they can take advantage of the opportunities that should be characterised by every parliamentarian. Well, if we are more determined to pursue this kind of crime, if we are much better at detecting such crimes precisely as a result of the actions of the prosecutor's office which I am directing, and the police, which Minister Brudziński is overseeing, if we urge prosecutors and police officers to detect such incidents, then the number of such crimes is increasing. This is proof of our effectiveness, this is proof that the detection of these crimes is increasing. If you want to find out and you want to discuss this with criminals, it's worth knowing that whether crime is rising or falling, they're really saying victimizational research, because they're the closest truths, they show what real crime is. These researches, investigations of victims of crime indicate that, as far as sexual crimes are concerned, so far there has been a huge dark number of such crimes committed in Poland. These crimes were mass, but they weren't reported and the statistics were good. On the other hand, if law enforcement agencies become more involved in detecting those crimes that really took place, in real aiding victims, in real prosecution of criminals, then statistics will necessarily show an increase in crime. That doesn't mean she wasn't there. She's just being detected. A huge dark number of sexual crimes. Check it out. If you're talking about something, check it out. The Only Effect Effectiveer [[♪ The bell ♪]] the detection process is an increase just the kind of crime you find in the police statistics you refer to. But this is proof of our success, not our failure, contrary to what you're saying. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u226	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u227	Ladies and gentlemen! Finishing your speech...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u228	Minister, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u229	...I'd like to say that it's all about harshness and inevitability.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u230	One sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u231	I hope that this tightening of penalties, the introduction of other criminal tools that effectively facilitate the fight against pedophilia and other serious crimes will link us, contrary to these emotions, contrary to these words and against this demagogy, and we will do something important for children and something that will be a great warning to potential criminals. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u232	In the procedure of correcting Mrs Barbara Dolniak. [[But the name wasn't mentioned.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u233	If you look...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u234	One second, because they're just... sorry, they're not: honourable Members always with that name... There doesn't have to be a name.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u235	Read the rules, you'll know. [[The voice from the hall: Marshal Terlecki said he had to be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u236	Good. Your marshal, get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u237	As to this correction: I will not refer to the Minister's speech, because what the Minister is and how he speaks, we all know. But since you have such a great project and so well written, for months discussed, why do we, the Members who are to take responsibility for its adoption, not have time to discuss it, not have time to get an opinion. [[Applause]] Why don't we have the opportunity to have a reasonable conversation at a committee meeting, but it only takes three or four hours, and today you're putting it at a fast pace for the Sejm meeting? [[By breaking the rules.]] Why, if he's so great, are you so afraid of the discussion, you're so afraid of outside opinions? Let us talk and discuss, not in instant mode. Since you've been able to develop this project for so many months, those who are to praise it, you should give time to evaluate its value. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u238	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I, repeatedly speaking, did not appeal to your gray cells, their condition, etc. I'd expect you not to insult us. We discuss, sometimes we use strong arguments, sometimes they don't like them, but I think we should keep a class. I also think, Minister, that recalling history or such invectives as have fallen to me, you will not cover one important thing - that Poles today do not expect you, from your political formation, to change 1/4 of the Penal Code. They expect you to respond decisively to what the Sekielski have shown in their film. [[Mr Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: Mr Marshal, could I have one sentence, too?]] That there are victims left behind in our country. That there are people whose law doesn't go back several dozen years. That's the essence of the problem, and you have to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Face to face with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u240	Thank you very much. Please, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, most of the speeches were based on manipulations, lies. Most of this has already been presented by the Minister. So let me limit myself to the others. The first thing is that there are other sexual acts in the film, not sexual harassment, and therefore we are only tightening the law on sexual harassment and other activities are not. This is either not true or you do not know what it is to regret, because rape in the case of a minor is both other sexual activity and sexual harassment, and in each paragraph rape is aggravated, as is sexual harassment. So that another sexual activity is also rape. That's one thing. Secondly, as regards the mode of work on this law. You mentioned paragraph. One, but he either forgot or he deliberately didn't say his mouth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 37 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which indicate that the Sejm or the committee may adopt the same procedure as in this case. Third case. As far as keeping under guard is concerned, it is not true that keeping under guard has fallen out of the project, on the contrary: it has been tightened, and drastically so. Let me remind you that the punishment she threatened for this was from 3 months to 5 years - art. 199 § 2. You were eight years old, you didn't do anything about it. In the meantime, in the case of rape, we introduce punishment from the years 8 to 30, if the guardian rapes his charge or charge, in the case of sexual harassment, we introduce a double border which is half tightened, which means the lower limit is half tightened. If this is the basic type of sexual harassment, it's been up for four years. When it comes to child molestation under the age of 7, it's been up for six years. Harassment of a child under the age of 7 becomes a crime. It is another lie that the smallest children become defenseless and remain without legal protection. They're obvious lies, aren't they? Another manipulation, perhaps this is ignorance, is that, unfortunately, you have remained passive for many years and have even mitigated the punishments for those who are held accountable. Introduction of the Article 37a The Penal Code allowed for the possibility to be transferred to prison sentences in cases of child molestation. Let me remind you, punishment until 5 years old. In such a case, in the event of a conviction for molestation of his subject, the courts could rule fines or penalties for the restriction of liberty. It's all yours. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Here's another thing. The Minister mentioned shortening the limitation period. The additional limitation period was reduced from 10 years to 5. Who did that serve? Third case. You introduced an extended limitation period for persons up to the age of 40, but this was under the pressure of the European Commission, the European Union. The directive made you do it. You had no other option. The paradox is that you extended it first and then, on your way away, in 2015 you shortened these additional dates to the years 5. Thus, under the pressure of the European Commission in 2011, there was a change, but in 2015 additional limitation periods were halved. [[Shame and shame!]] What were the changes we had made since the beginning of our governments? The President's law prepared together with the Ministry of Justice has declared silence a crime. A person who is silent, knowing about a paedophile crime, about the sexual abuse of a person under the watch, who is silent, knowing about the rape of a minor, is punishable by imprisonment. You didn't make that record. We brought him in. The Act has been in force since 13 July 2017. [[Applause]] You were eight years old for this. Another case is mandatory, life-long ban on working with children. We're the ones who brought it in. The Act has been in force since 1 October 2017. She was introduced along with the pedophile registry. You have already mentioned who has voted on this and how you have voted on it. Why did you vote against a mandatory ban on working with children? Why did you vote against the courts to be able to, or even have to - a mandatory criminal measure - to ban working with children for life? Who are you covering for? I'm going to refer to another case, which is our change in the pedophile registry. Many already on this subject Yeah, we did. This project introduces the criminal's profession in the register at the time of the act. I'm asking you to reflect. Maybe this is the moment when you will finally wake up and vote as the public expects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u242	Thank you, Minister. I don't see Mr Buda. In that case, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Legislative Commission in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the National Property Resources Act and some other laws (Prints No. 3364 and 3435). I ask Mr Sylwester Khrushch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the National Property Resources Act and some other laws, print No 3364. The Sejm at its 80th meeting, held on 12 April 2019, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. High Izbo! The Council of Ministers Resolution 115/2016 of 27 September 2016 on the adoption of the National Housing Programme set out three main objectives: to increase access to housing for people with income currently preventing their acquisition or hiring on a commercial basis, to increase the capacity to meet the basic housing needs of people at risk of social exclusion due to low incomes and particularly difficult situation and to improve housing conditions, technical housing and energy efficiency. National Resource Act Real estate is the answer to these challenges. Points of this law introduce all things that should improve the situation on the housing market. We must be aware that over 1 million more apartments should be built in the last 12 years. Today, some 150,000 are created annually. There should be about 80,000 more of them. To meet these challenges, we need to launch land that belongs, for example. to the Treasury. We need to increase the possibility of renting apartments thanks to the 500+ programme. Therefore, the Act on National Property Resources of 20 July 2017 was adopted as part of the activities arising precisely from the National Housing Programme in order to increase the availability of housing for groups with moderate income which, under existing market conditions, do not have sufficient financial capacity to acquire or rent housing for their own use. High Izbo! Joint Committees: Infrastructure and Local Government and Regional Policy after considering this draft law at meetings on 24 April and 15 May this year. They're asking the High Sejm to adopt the attached bill. At the same time, committees in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit 10 minority applications at the request of the applicants. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u244	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u245	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I wanted to refer to the draft law amending the National Property Resources Act. Ladies and gentlemen, this law concerns the scope of operation of the National Property Resource. At this point in time, I would like to make it very clear that it is very necessary to waive the possibility of imposing penalties for failure to comply with information obligations and to obstruct or prevent real estate checks. It is also important because there is an improvement in the transfer of the first lists of real estate by the Treasury companies by limiting the scope of information to be included in the list. It is also important in order to clarify the rules for changing the purpose of perpetual use (the current wording has caused many difficulties in practice); this is accompanied by an amendment to the Construction Law, which will improve the issue of building permits. A number of entries in this amendment of the National Resource Act Real estate concerns housing laws. Inaccuracies or legislative errors, which are included in the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code during the parliamentary work on the Amending Act of 22 March 2018, as well as the extension of the period until 31 December 2021, i.e. for a further 2 years, concerning the obligation for the municipality to provide a replacement space for tenants forced to empty the premises occupied on the basis of the allocation decision due to the need for demolition or renovation of the building. This Act also adds to the Act of 22 March 2018 amending the Law on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Homes, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code, and some other transitional provisions which will allow tenants already prior to 21 April 2019 to have a lease agreement transferred to a replacement premises due to the poor technical condition of the building to avoid new obligations imposed on tenants in force from 21 April 2019. A similar change was introduced for tenants of municipal premises switching apartments with other municipal tenants. I think it is also worth mentioning that there is some improvement in the Law on State aid for housing expenditure in the first years of renting the apartment: an increase in the income criteria for applying for a rent payment and an extension of the period of the first residence in respect of which aid may be applied, from 12 to 24 months from the date of completion of the housing investment. This law also applies to the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into the right of ownership of the land. There is a clarification of the rules of jurisdiction in respect of land on which other buildings and buildings are located, which are not functionally related to the housing purpose, as well as guaranteeing the certainty of the marketing of premises prior to the issuing by the competent authority of the certificate of conversion. The procedures for issuing certificates for the benefit of the beneficiaries of the conversion will also be improved. The Act also includes the provision of an ex officio payment of perpetual use charges against conversion claims. It also sets out preferential conditions for people in a difficult material situation - so-called. a statutory bonus of 99%. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of this draft law in the further legislative process. It's a very good, very necessary and important bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u246	Thank you. Please, Mrs Margaret Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In July 2017, under the cover of protests on the courts, within 3 days without consultation, PiS passed the National Property Resources Act. The complete lack of functioning of this law is proof of our right then. It's only a pity for the people who believed you and were hoping for a place to live. You tricked them. Even the co-author of the housing +, Mr. Barszcz said that the assumptions of this program are unrealistic and that the law is dead. It's a negative apartment, not a plus. It's supposed to be forever, or it could end on the pavement - institutional lease you're introducing. It's supposed to be cheaper, and it's more expensive than on the open market. You promised tens of thousands of new apartments, and you gave up 480 in the suburbs... [[Voice from the room: And you're zero.]] ...tough to handle. With such dynamics as in the last 2 years the construction of the promised 100,000. It's gonna take you 200 years to get the apartments. That's another PiS legal shit you're changing. Admitting your mistake, you planned the rent payments, but it didn't work either. I understand that you are measured by all the good things in the previous government, but it is a pity that the continuation of our housing programs has been abandoned, because this gave 1.2 million apartments in the years 2008-2015, all the more so because the programmes would be complementary, because housing policy should be over-cadence, because only then does it give a real increase in the number of apartments. This amendment provides for the acquisition of land and premises belonging to the State Treasury and currently managed by local governments, military agencies, agricultural agencies, Polish Post and PKP. These companies will have to make a mandatory transfer of the list of their sites to KZN. Some of these companies may simply destroy the site because it will be necessary for them to operate. We, as the Civic Platform, promise the local governments that all areas that will be taken away from the elders will be returned in the future term of the Sejm. Second point of this amendment, the acquisition of the land of the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Military Property Agency. In the case of disposal of immovable property taken over from these entities, 90% resources return to them and 10% He's staying at KZN. Dear Minister, It's not true what you said at the committee meeting that these agencies don't live in real estate. Read the contracts, it's about setting up both agencies, they're completely different. They're just gonna fall if you start taking their land away from them, because that's all they're gonna live for. Three, eliminating maximum rent rates. The release of rents, that is, the market amount of rents. After all, you promised to live for the poor, and here commercially, plus an institutional lease, which means throwing people out on the street. You're creating a super developer with our free land. KZN will be able to sell apartments and not just rent, which means it will become an ordinary developer, receiving our land free of charge. Communion, come back! The agricultural system law makes it difficult for farmers to trade their own land, but religious unions and churches are exempt from that regime. This amendment will also slow down KZN and Polish farmers will not. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft of this amendment is a great centralization of the State Treasury's land, because the central idea of this government is to centralize and distribute after being considered, filling executive positions with their own people. Ladies and gentlemen! Due to many reservations about the amendment of the National Property Resources Act, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition will not support this project. The provisions of this law are detrimental to future tenants and introduce even greater legal chaos, with no chance of building apartments. Just mummy of Poles with cheaper apartments. I would also like to say that, in view of the fact that the Government has introduced Amendment 11, from the amendments that we tabled, I hope that you will vote on them, I withdraw two amendments and I submit a letter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u248	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Act on National Property Resources and some other laws. High Izbo! The stated purpose of this law is to implement the legal framework related to the new approach to the implementation of housing investments within the framework of the living+ package. Within the framework of these assumptions, under the provisions proposed in this Act, this is all intended to give impetus to the dynamics of investment procedures. I must say that I am a little smiling because we meet with the Minister here, in the plenary room, quite often, because this approach is quite often changed, the rules are changed, the procedures are changed, and each time they are to be an even more perfect impulse to dynamicize the The fact that we meet often means nothing less, nothing more, that they just don't work and systematically you have to change this approach to show that you're working. It should be made clear that after 3 years of such attempts, errors, changes in approaches, the In the meantime, it was necessary to recall one of the most important elements in the exposé of Prime Minister Szydło, very emphasized in the Law and Justice programme, and the solutions adopted proved to be impossible, impossible to implement. The words of Minister Adamczyk, which he made on every occasion, referring to these provisions, of course, had nothing to do with reality. It was purely blood propaganda, as most projects in the field of operation of the Ministry of Infrastructure. What's more, I think this is a very serious hit on the housing market. PiS eliminated previous programs that gave Poles real apartments, hundreds of thousands of apartments. As a result, it is not only that new apartments were not built from new programs, but those programs which gave Poles real, real apartments were also eliminated. If something's been built, it's been a bit like this. Somewhere in the north that the blocks were built, but there was no access road, or just like in Jarocin, it was already mentioned where propaganda grass disappeared, the walls passed through the mushroom, and the inhabitants were devastated, because no one told them that they would live in an honest field. This is what the apartment+ programme looks like. In the explanatory memorandum of this bill, which was addressed to the High House, we find the opinion of the Housing Council, where we read that the solutions adopted by PiS contribute to halting the activities carried out within the framework of the housing+ programme. So these solutions with which the government came to the Sejm simply caused the investment in housing to stop. So those promises you made first, that there would be 3 million apartments, then that there would just be apartments, turned out to be impossible. You didn't make those promises, you just did, and for that you should answer. I must say that this law, this amendment also does not constitute rehabilitation and it will not be very helpful when it comes to the dynamics of this process. Moreover, this law again introduces the release of rent, which is a danger to the residents, even though you plan to pay the rent. In general, the release of rents basically means that it is not known how much the inhabitants will pay. Another thing is that it's kind of a squeeze when it comes to expropriation and centralization of real estate. You're gonna strip these properties, move them to KZN. But this KZN doesn't work, and I have a feeling it won't work after these changes either. Minister! Like I said, we meet here quite often. You bring the projects, then it turns out that during the work of the committee from these projects there is virtually nothing left. If we compare the project with which the Minister came to Parliament, with what we have today, which is after the committee's deliberations, then basically this is an amendment to the amendment to the draft amendment. And this work at committee meetings shows that, however, these solutions are not analysed before joining parliamentary work, they are not well thought out, and it is difficult to expect that in such a situation they provide an impetus to the development of housing. So, to be honest, [[♪ The bell ♪]] we will not support this project, assuming that it is difficult to take responsibility for a project that simply does not work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u250	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Szczerba has the floor. The Member signed up just in case, but Mrs Chmiel is, isn't she? I invite Mrs Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u251	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask what happened to your loud announcements of the three pillars. One pillar, apartments for rent, mainly carried out by municipalities. Then you announced individual housing accounts. The third pillar is the National Housing Fund. There's complete silence. It reminds me of Morawiecki's noisy plan, his second show. You've made a lot of noise. [[Moravian Prime Minister. It's premiere.]] Moravian Prime Minister, all right, I'm sorry. You've made a lot of noise. I ask: What happens to those pillars that you promised Poles that there will be a change in the construction of apartments, thanks to which there will be a large number of cheap housing for poorer people? Thank you very much. I would also like to ask for a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, our debate is being listened to by young people from the Primary School in the Great Roads in the municipality of Skawina. Welcome. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik. Are you an MP? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, can I run this session? One second.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The creation of the National Property Resource has encountered numerous problems. One of the problems, which is very little discussed, and for the ordinary Pole it is probably completely unknown, is the obstruction from parts of local government units. There have been cases of transmission of information showing either one plot or parcels located mainly under roads and surface waters. There were also many cases where the statutory deadline was exceeded. Thus some self-government politicians, associated with total opposition, tried to torpedo the program of the government of Law and Justice, the government of Matthew Morawiecki. Therefore, I have no questions, I have a request: please send a list, a list of these cases in writing with the simultaneous information which the managers of local government units have suffered the consequences provided for in the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u254	Please, Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the National Property Resources Act, which facilitates land acquisition, is trying to save the face of the program. Accommodation+, whose numerous modifications show how imperfect and inadequate its original assumptions were to the market reality. Of the apartments announced in 2016, between 2.5 million and 3 million, 867 were paid in Biała Podlaski, Jarocin, Kępnie, Gdynia and Wałbrzych. At the moment, 663 apartments are under construction. The way in which this amendment is adopted can be defined as contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. What's the rush all of a sudden? Because there's an election? Why has the amendment not been consulted with the local government? Representatives of the Association of Polish Cities have rightly noticed that you are breaking the constitution which guarantees the government the protection of their property. Think about it while there's time. How embarrassing are you? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u256	Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This bill is another stage of centralization. Centralisation is the main direction of government action. The point is to take everything that has been given to local governments and other agencies before. Under this project will take over the land belonging to the State Treasury, currently managed by starosts, military agencies, agricultural agencies, Polish Post, PKP as well as companies of the State Treasury. Many of these land is needed both for old-age and for agencies to operate, and at the moment these land is being taken away by restricting their activities. Instead of focusing on the development of a good housing program, and only later will you think about how to implement it, it starts from a different perspective. First: how to implement this program? And then, what's next with this program? He's just gone, he's a big bust. And now the land is being taken away to limit the activity of others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u258	Thank you. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about very specific locations. During the meeting of the committee, the Minister mentioned various locations in which the construction is planned, the planning of the construction is planned, these 3 million buildings, 3 million apartments, and the name of the cities - neither Bielska-Biała nor Cieszyn nor the Czechowice-Children nor Pszczyna - was given in respect of these locations from the Minister's mouth. I must say that this brings disappointment, because when there are elections, the Members of the Law and Justice are trying to get the votes of the people of these cities that I have mentioned, promising pears on the willow. On the other hand, when it turns out that there are specific tasks to be done, even if the construction of such apartments, which are also needed in our region, then Bielsko-Biała, Cieszyn, Czechowice-Dziedzice, Pszczyna and Żywiec are not on the list of locations where such investments can be carried out. So I wanted to ask the Minister why Law and Justice don't like the people of my region so much that he doesn't direct funds there. I spoke similarly yesterday about the so-called measures. the PKS Act. In fact, the inhabitants of Bielska-Biała and all the cities I mentioned are excluded from action. And these are the next laws that discriminate against the people of my region. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is that? Why don't you like the people of my region so much? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u260	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! National Property Resources must be defined as an absolute legislative misfire. The original act of 2017 had completely unrealistic grounds. Today you're trying to correct it, but in a pretty bad direction. First of all, because you want to centralize the State Treasury land. At the same time, you are making strategic changes in this programme. After all, it was supposed to be housing, I'm talking about living plus, for the poor, for the elderly, for assisted housing, which would also somehow correspond to the senior policy programme. Today it turns out that this will not be the case, you are withdrawing from the idea of normalised rentals, so prices will be able to be the same as on the market, no one will be interested in such a situation when this rent is market-oriented, and in addition you will force people to sign contracts in institutional lease mode, i.e. not being able to simultaneously seek housing from municipal resources. All of this shows that living + is an absolute misfire. This is the flagship Beata Szydło was talking about, which right now, I understand, is packing for Brussels and Strasbourg, throughout the campaign. There are no apartments in Warsaw, no sight, no hearing. You're trying to pretend that you're doing something about it, and now you're concentrating the State Treasury's land, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To become a central developer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u262	Thank you. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr Arthur Sobonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this discussion. There were such questions or statements in this discussion, where it is very difficult for me to rationally explain and answer these doubts. Because how can you centralize the State Treasury land? Or I quote Mr Suchon: the inhabitants were not told that they would live in an honest field. Really? It's really... [[Those are the people's words. This is a quote from the locals.]] In my opinion, this is a summary of this quality, Mr... [[This is a quote from the locals.]] ...how you present this issue. [[Centralize...]] You have to answer your own question... [[Talk to the residents.]] ...if that sentence you used makes any sense. On the other hand... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u264	Mr Suchoń, that is enough, thank you. [[Centralize the State Treasury land control... do you understand?]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Yeah, yeah... Madam, are you on the stand right now? Sign up, will you? [[Yeah, okay.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Now on these three pillars, because this was indeed a question from Mrs Chmiel, we have today in contracts with Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, concluded with local governments throughout Poland, 18 thousand. municipal, social and rent housing. As far as individual accounts are concerned, as you know, there is a draft law in the Sejm on companies investing in real estate rentals, so as to give Kowalski the opportunity to invest also through the real estate market. However, so that there is no doubt at what stage within the framework of this 100,000. The apartments are each of the locations, and I wanted to leave you a map at the old smoker's. I'm not going to develop it here. There's a map of these locations. There is nothing here that your Members would not know. And at what stage are those 100,000. Apartments, you can read from this map. Should the local government be satisfied with these changes? Yes, I am convinced that from the point of view of local authorities, especially regarding these changes concerning the act of patronage, this is the direction that will allow these certificates to be given to Poles faster. And where, as a country, we want to ask for those social groups that did not receive a voucher from local governments, i.e. families with disabled people or large families, we simply introduce statutory discounts there. And this is actually one of those changes that we're looking at right now. On the other hand, for whom it is, I will show you on specific figures, because maybe they will convince you that it is such an investment in which we use the resources that you have, but at the same time we do not draw money from the state budget. Because as you know, each of these investment decisions is a TFI decision, so she has to be protected when it comes to funding. It is an investment in the fund, so we do not use the funds from the state budget. We have a specific location in which residents will receive the keys in a moment, because it is in the process of commercialization, i.e. it is Gdynia, ul. It's a trash can. Compare the 50 m2 apartment on the same street at the developer and as part of the apartment+ program. The average statistical cost of credit according to the bank calculator for this apartment for 30 years for the family is exactly PLN 2145 per month, which for 30 years would give 772 thousand. zł. Then this family would be the owner of an apartment like this. If you accept exactly this commercial, market rent in Gdynia - 25 PLN, because it amounts to that, with access to property for 30 years, such a family will pay 1225 PLN per month. That means a family like this is gonna pay $322,000 for this apartment. PLN less than on the market. On the other hand, if this family meets the income criterion, which we raise in these changes, it will pay for the rent of PLN 18.06 for 1 m2 50 meters apartment. This is exactly PLN 908 a month. So this is going to be 383,000. zł for 30 years, because this family, unlike the family in the communal apartment, will become the owner of this apartment after 30 years. The fact that we are introducing this programme into the reality of the market is, in my opinion, something that should connect us, because long-term investment in more housing supply, affordable housing, introduces on these local development markets, first, competition, second, the possibility of real choice for the consumer, and thirdly, we give a chance to live for those who cannot receive such a mortgage. And that's what we're doing today. This is the last change with regard to the Living+ programme when it comes to these major statutory changes. Now these changes will be gone. You knew that I had announced that these changes would immediately go in the direction of bringing this programme into line with today's market. You also know that today's market produces the largest ever after 1990... even much earlier, the largest number of apartments per year since the 1970s. You know the situation of the supply of land, including the State Treasury land. These are not land that can always be used for housing not only by us, but by each of the developers. So we created a model in which we use state resources to increase the supply of housing and to reach those who today have no chance at this apartment. And I'm asking you in this respect. They were helping us, not disturbing us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]] Please, Mr Suchoń, as corrected. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you didn't understand me, so I'll explain. When I was talking about how people are devastated because no one warned them that they were going to live in an honest field, of course... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: But the inhabitants have eyes. No kidding, sir.]] ...wasn't my words, I was just quoting specific people. And you know very well that this genuine field is a question of access to public services, which is a very important element, of lack of access to transport, which makes this particular place a white spot and is rather a factor that inhibits development than accelerates it. And that's the problem. So if you're designing solutions, let them be complementary, and not, you know, like, I'd say propaganda. Thank you very much. [[I'd like a corrigendum, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u266	I ask Mrs Chmiel to correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u267	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, please don't twist words ironically here. You know exactly what I was talking about when I was talking about centralizing the land, and you know very well that I was talking about centralising the management and control of the land. And you know very well that such central land management was in the times of the Polish People's Republic, and then after paying attention to giving to your own people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u268	Ladies and gentlemen! Our meetings are listened to by the winners of the competition for the knowledge of Parliament from the counties of Lewajski, Niedajski and Rzeszów. Welcome back, folks. [[Applause]] And now I invite the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I would like to thank all those who participated in the work on the bill. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Commission! It was a good debate. I think the time for urban chaos has just ended, and the time for these neglects in construction has been so huge. [[It's just gonna start.]] We have to solve all this now. So that I thank you all and ask you to vote for this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u270	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 to 15 hours 15 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws (Prints Nos 3408 and 3462). I ask Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a government bill amending the law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws, print No 3408. Two amendments were tabled during the work of the committee that took place yesterday. One concerned an article. Point 1 and rejected. The second amendment concerned Article. 2 and was accepted by the committee. It concerns the date of entry into force of the Act and assumes that the Act enters into force on 1 June 2019. The Commission's work was in such a way as to recommend the entire Act and adopt it in a vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u272	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. You have the voice of Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u273	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The main objective of the proposed amendment to the Law of 21 February 2019 amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, hereinafter referred to as the Act, is to amend the Act of 12 May 2011 on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices, hereinafter referred to as the Refund Act. Law of 21 February 2019 in the amended Article. 52a of the Refund Act introduced the possibility of imposing administrative penalties on persons entitled within the meaning of the Refund Act in the event of a finding during the review of the writing of a prescription which is not justified by medical reasons, the writing of a prescription which is incompatible with the rights of the recipient or the person entitled, the writing of a prescription which is incompatible with the indications contained in the notices referred to in Article. 37th Refund Act. The proposed amendment aims to align the situation of operators subject to scrutiny under Article. 48 (1) (a) 7 Refund Act by harmonising the nature and amount of penalties for misdefining the level of refund of prescriptions, e.g. which does not comply with the rights of the recipient or the person entitled or does not comply with the indications contained in the notices. It is proposed to change the wording of the article. 52 through e.g. the removal from it of the provisions of point 5 and 7 so that they do not include their standard situation of writing a prescription which is not justified by medical reasons, writing a prescription which is incompatible with the rights of the recipient or of the entitled person, writing a prescription which is incompatible with the indications contained in the notices referred to in Article. 37th Refund Act. It is proposed to leave it in the Article. 52a Refund Act introduced on 21 February sanctions in the form of an administrative penalty for the conduct of medical records in a manner that is not in accordance with the law and for the absence of medical records. At the same time, given that Article. Article 52a (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Point 1 (6) of the Refund Act introduces the possibility of imposing sanctions for the issuing of a prescription which is incompatible with the rights of an entitled person whose purpose is to increase control of the prescription of medicines and thus to increase the safety of patients, The draft also includes the addition of an article. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is a transitional provision which provides that no penalty shall be collected or imposed as set out in post-control submissions terminating proceedings carried out on the basis of the provisions in force prior to the entry into force of the Law of 21 February 2019, the value of which does not exceed PLN 500 at one time. The aim of the proposed law requires that it enter into force during the period of the vacathio legis of 21 February 2019. It is therefore proposed that this should take place on 31 May 2019. The draft law does not fall within the scope of European Union law. The draft law does not require it to be submitted to the bodies and institutions of the European Union, including the European Central Bank, for the purpose of obtaining an opinion, notification, consultation or agreement. The proposed law is not subject to a notification procedure within the meaning of the provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 23 December 2002 on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and legal acts. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u274	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, in short the PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we're investigating has one side to it. She wouldn't have had to be adopted if it wasn't for the mess, the rush and the lack of an idea at the Ministry of Health. Even the expert who assessed this law writes that the justification of the project does not explain at all this change and the whole approach of the government to the catalogue of medical exceedances in the ordination of medicines reimbursed, which are to be subject to administrative penalties and the reimbursement of the refund for the drug. Why are these changes being made? The government doesn't admit it at all. He messed up on February 21st, when that bill was put into effect, and now he's fixing it. There's no word for it in the statement. Interestingly, during the committee meeting, the Minister did not want to say that they were fixing the error because the medical environment was strongly protesting. In this Law of 21 February, five conditions were chosen for which a single penalty was imposed in respect of the reimbursement of the amount of the refunded drug with interest. A second administrative penalty could be imposed when it concerned the reimbursement of the equivalent amount of the refund for the entire period covered by the check, e.g. for a year or two years. The Ministry in this amendment, which we are discussing today, withdraws from three premises. There will be no administrative penalty, but why these three were chosen and left two, nobody knows. Mystery over secrets. I hope that the Minister, speaking, will explain why the three have been chosen, not the two, and why the penalty has been waived in the event of a specific condition, and in the event of even a serious condition which speaks of someone who does not have the right to discharge the medicine, there is no administrative penalty, there is only reimbursement of the amount of the refund. It seems that a higher penalty when it comes to prescribing recipes for medicines refunded should be met by someone who does not comply with the rules, as this law defines, imprecisely, does not keep medical records in accordance with the regulations, than someone who does not have the authority to discharge these medicines at all. But you can question 10 times. I have asked you several times at the committee meeting and I have not received an answer. For four years, the government hasn't taken care of it and talked to the medical community to actually think about sanctions for irregularities in writing prescriptions for refunded drugs, and that requires a comprehensive review, not a hurrah to do something. First we introduce a messy one law, and then we fix what we've put in place, because we've messed up hugely, and again on the hurrah, without any public consultation. We fix it without fixing it. But what's interesting is, then the minister said in the cockroaches: but these medical penalties were caused by the fact that we are fighting the export of drugs. Curiosity. I wonder what the General Medical Board will say about that. That's very interesting, Minister. In addition, the principles of legislative technology alone - I know that you do not know the legislative technique, as I will say in the next law - are saying that you can change laws during the vacathio legis period on one condition that we have seen a legal gap and that this gap needs to be filled. Was there a legal gap here? It was not there, and yet we are amending the law before it enters into force, and what is ridiculous, only after we, Members of the opposition, and through the Legislative Office, will this law enter into force not on 31 May, but on 1 June, when the law passed on 21 February should enter into force. Fortunately, the Minister agreed to this because it would be another legislative error. You don't pay attention to anything. There's no idea of what's going on in health care, there's no idea what's going on at the drug refund and the whole drug refund system, because there's not even any discussion about how to separate doctors who should treat patients from taking care of paperwork. And if a doctor writes something that is not in accordance with the rules and is referred to in the regulation, he may be punished and punished in the form of a refund of the amount due for the drug refunded and an administrative penalty in the form of a refund of the equivalent refund for the entire period controlled. I'm making the relevant amendment because [[♪ The bell ♪]] Government officials said they were changing what was introduced, but not quite. If you're saying that...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u276	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u277	...you are fulfilling your obligations, so take into account the amendment that actually withdraws what was introduced by the Law of 21 February. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u278	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft amends the Act of 12 May 2011 on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices concerning the harmonisation of the nature and amount of penalties for misdefining the level of refund for prescriptions. Submitted amendment in Article 48 (1) (a) 7a Refund Act extends the provision of point 3. As proposed by the Government, the entitled person, excluding the health insurance doctor, the health insurance officer, the nurse and the midwife of health insurance, will be required to return to the National Health Fund the amount equivalent to the amount of the refund together with the statutory interest calculated from the date on which the refund was made in the event of writing a prescription incompatible with the rights of the recipient or the entitled person. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 52a (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Point 5.7 of this Article, which was amended on 21 February, was abandoned. The draft law also includes a new article. 19a added to the act of February 21. This is a transitional provision on the basis of which the NFZ will not collect or prosecute the penalties set out in the post-control statements closing proceedings carried out on the basis of the provisions in force prior to the entry into force of the amended law, the value of which does not exceed PLN 500 at one time. Following the entry into force of this law, the person entitled to issue prescriptions or the person carrying out the activities of the clinic under which the prescription is issued will be subject to a revised article. Article 52a (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 1 of the Refund Act shall be subject to a penalty in the case of: prevention of control activities, failure to comply with the deadlines of the post-control recommendations, the conduct of medical records in a manner that is not in accordance with the law, the absence of medical records, the writing of a prescription which is not justified by medical reasons, the writing of a prescription which does not comply with the rights of the recipient or the person entitled, the writing of a prescription which does not comply with the indications set out in the notices referred to in Article. 37th Refund Act. Following the introduction of the draft opinion, the person authorised to prescribe a prescription which is unjustified on medical grounds, which does not comply with the rights of the recipient or the entitled person, does not comply with the indications contained in the notices referred to in Article. 37 of the Refund Act would not constitute a basis for a fine, but would only give rise to the effects of the article. 48 (1) (a) 7a Refund Act, i.e. an obligation would then be made to reimburse the fund an amount equivalent to the amount of the refund, together with the statutory interest calculated from the date on which the refund was made. In other words, as a result of the adoption of the proposed solutions, the same deficiencies in the drafting of the prescriptions would not at the same time constitute a condition for a fine to be imposed and an obligation to reimburse the amount equivalent to the amount of the refund and interest. Therefore, I have very serious doubts as to whether individual infringements of the law are properly attributed to the burden of these sanctions. [[Exactly.]] The monetary penalty provided for in Article 1 shall apply. 52a of the Refund Act has, as its name indicates, a repressive character. As already mentioned, in accordance with the lips. 2 of that provision after the entry into force of the Law of 21 February it shall be fixed in the amount equivalent to the amount of the refund for the period covered by the check or the period covered by the operations referred to in Article. 61x Health Services Act. In contrast, the sanctioning of the article. 48 (1) (a) 7a of the Refund Act is less burdensome, since this provision requires reimbursement of the amount which is only equivalent to the amount of the specific refund, together with the interest which has taken place in connection with the infringement found. This penalty is therefore purely compensatory. In view of these reservations, the Kukiz Club cannot support this proposal and will abstain in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. High Izbo! We are investigating whether we are working on regulations, regulations that the government has introduced very recently, also at such a rapid pace, as today's proposal aims to amend the Act of 21 February this year, which is 2019. At the time, we were very critical of the provisions of this law in terms of which we are amending here, as well as in terms of the transfer of controls, and it turns out that the government withdraws after 2 months, at least to a certain extent, from some of the grounds for imposing penalties. I firmly believe that there will also be reflection on the system for introducing controls in time. What changes are proposed in this Act? Very limited, but still. The proposals in print No 3408 are the withdrawal from the section of the catalogue of situations subject to administrative penalties. However, it is difficult to find in the justification of the project, as has already been said here, an explanation of this change, such an approach of the government to the extent of the situation subject to administrative penalties within just 2 months of the adoption of the amending act, in the period of vacathio legis, let us be honest. High Seym! In our view, this is another example of sloppy legislation. I apologize for this wording, but there is no other way to define the pace of work on laws, disregarding the voice of the opposition, conducting formal consultations only. This law is an example of this, but it is not the first, and it is probably not the last law so procedated. This is a certain attitude, this is a phenomenon that we have seen at the Sejm's meetings for nearly four years now. High Izbo! I would also like to point out that this proposal contains a new article. 19a, added in the Act of 21 February 2019 It will have the meaning of a transitional provision on the basis of which the National Health Fund will not collect or prosecute penalties set out in the follow-up proceedings carried out on the basis of the provisions in force prior to the entry into force of the amending law, the amount of which does not exceed PLN 500. I think it's worth noticing this amendment proposed in this bill. High Seym! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to state once again unambiguously that we are very critical of such lawmaking as the example of which is now in the vocabulary. The law is taken seriously if it is stable. At the meeting of the committee, there was a known joke about the removal of the goat, which was previously introduced as part of wisdom and reflection. That's an argument on the government's side. However, I think, and I stress that we are creating the law of the Republic of Poland. Let's take this seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u282	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u283	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the government's draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, contained in the sejm print No 3408. The Public-funded Health Care Act has been revised several times in this term of office of the Sejm. We have also discussed changes to the rules on refunds many times. Of course, I am aware of the fact that this legislation is a comprehensive law affecting many areas of operation of the Polish health system, but the situation in which we are updating legislation which has not yet entered into force is curiasal. Less than 4 months after we were persuaded, Members, to implement legislation aimed at increasing control of the regulation of medicines and thereby increasing the safety of patients, part of the regulation providing for fines for the writing of prescriptions which are unjustified on medical grounds, which are not in conformity with the rights of the recipient or the person entitled or who does not comply with the indications contained in the notices shall be repealed. The power of the submitted project shall be left only to sanction in the form of an administrative penalty for the conduct of medical records in a manner that is not in accordance with the law and for the absence of medical records. I would like to remind you that, in the course of the debate on the law currently being amended, such a broad catalogue of sanctions was negatively assessed by the medical authorities. Why were the experts' voices not listened to at the time? Moreover, the Sejm Analysis Office in the opinion sent indicates that the justification for the government project is currently missing an explanation of the change of position. According to the report of employers of the Republic of Poland published in 2018, the state of quality of national legislation is not proud. We are looking at laws too quickly, and the majority of the government disregards the opinion of experts, while limiting the process of public consultation. This bill confirms that haste is not conducive to good decisions. Could it really not have been possible to make a comprehensive review of the rules on penalties in relation to the prescription of refunded medicines? Why have we been leaning twice since the beginning of this year to solve the same problem? Modern will vote in favour of this project. However, at this point I would like to call for further changes in the law to be considered, preceded by consultations with experts and a fair debate. This will help us avoid situations where the same provisions are improved by successive amendments. And finally, Let me repeat after Tacitus: The more sick the state is, the more set in it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u284	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan provided a written statement. Let's get to the questions. Time - one and a half minutes. I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is an amendment, which is an example of the fact that the crazy pace of work on subsequent laws makes the quality of the law of the Sejm dramatically lower. After all, the same remarks were made by the Senate, had Members, I apologize: the Senators of the Civic Platform and it could have been improved earlier. There was a clear position on this matter by the Chief Medical Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to quote some data that the High House may not know. Through the medical portal Konsylium24.pl has been carried out an examination. What did that test do? There are doctors in Poland who work up to 126 hours a week. In Poland doctors are overworked, overtired, make medical mistakes, also make mistakes when they write refund documents, simply when they write prescriptions. What was proposed in February is an absolute scandal. It's an act of the police state. Punishment, financial sanctions, a whole catalogue of financial sanctions against doctors who make mistakes when writing prescriptions. It is good that this amendment is, but as I say, this amendment is late and not when we have raised these specific doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the margins of this amendment, I would like to ask the Minister whether, at present, all persons entitled to issue prescriptions for the funds reimbursed have access to tools for the effective verification of the rights of the recipient. I would also like to ask you about the solution that Mr Giuliani once introduced in New York, namely the synchronization of purchases, i.e. fiscal cash registers in pharmacies, with certain trends and trends that may cause some kind of illness. It is not only about controlling on the one hand who gives a prescription, but also the syndromes, let's say, pathogens or phenomena, the syndromes of certain diseases. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u288	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this bill, it is astonishing to me that you allow double punishment of the person entitled to issue prescriptions for the same irregularity related to the issuing of prescriptions. This is some kind of absurdity that maintains the grounds for double punishment. Has the Minister thought this through? This is just ridiculous to me. It's a simple bureaucracy and obstruction of doctors' work and doesn't re-bureaucratize the rules of medical organization for patients. I have this question: why has the PiS government not worked together with the medical community on a coherent system of penalties in relation to the prescription of refunded drugs for nearly four years? This is not the way to proceed over any bill, and you guys are doing it notoriously. What about the public consultation? Why don't you listen to the experts? That's even... It is a mockery to proceed over the laws in this House. I don't really understand where this is going anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u290	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In this term of office of the Sejm, the government is particularly often proposing amendments to laws that have not yet entered into force. That's the case, in this case. The draft amendment amends the Act of 21 February, which enters into force on 1 June, so changes are still being made during the vacathio legis period, which is simply shocking. Why? And that's because there's a reflection. Although late, because we raised these problems and these issues during the discussion of the project... A reflection has come to waive punishment for issuing prescriptions for medicines refunded. The law lists in detail situations where it was envisaged that the holders of prescriptions should be punished. But I think that today, when we are discussing this situation, we should ask ourselves why such situations occur and clearly state the reasons. This is a chaotic legislative process, haste, no time to discuss in the Parliament hall, in committees, no consultation with the environments, in this case medical ones. I wanted to ask the Minister, because you have a lot of these projects, if you'll learn from this situation, which is really embarrassing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he doesn't argue with good lawmaking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u292	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u293	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! Just a quick question. Dear Minister, aren't you afraid the Minister that the introduction of this bill will result in double punishment for the same act? When I read the bill, I have this impression, so I ask you to explain this to me, to refer to these concerns. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u294	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the results of estimating the losses of the National Health Fund in terms of, first, incorrect prescription for medicines refunded and, secondly, export of medicines abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u297	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! On February 21st, you introduced confusion and double punishment for the same thing. Now you're retreating from some of those conditions where there'll be double punishment. In fact, it is not known why in one case there is only a refund, or otherwise, for the same - administrative penalty. I hope that what I asked during the presentation of the club's position will be explained in detail. I want to ask if the government is going to take any work at all to think about the system for writing recipes that are refunded. Do you really need to engage medical time... I have in mind, for example, these conditions of penalties, whether it is reimbursement of refund costs or an administrative penalty. The point is for the doctor to have time for the patient, not to wonder what's in the specs, whether or not he's going to make a mistake, whether he's going to write something higher or something lower, which might put himself in danger of being punished by the National Health Fund. Second question, Minister. If this system of penalties works as well as you probably want, don't you think it will result in a patient's loss? Doctors, in order to avoid being exposed when it comes to vaguely defined grounds for punishment and punishment, will prescribe medicines for patients with a 100-percent remuneration. To whom is this benefit? For the NFZ? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe. For the patient and the state - not necessarily. Do you take this into account? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u298	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Paweł Skutecki from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The refund system is based on the fact that all taxpayers, all Polish people pay for certain medicines for certain people. It's obvious, we want to do it. On the other hand, if there is so much money there, it is obvious that some of this money will provide some incentive for dishonest action. Does the Minister have any other idea besides punishment? You may impose the penalties you wish, including hand-cutting, and if they are not enforced, they will not be effective, simply. Maybe it would be worth redesigning this system completely, changing it so that it is clear, so that it works for at least a few or a dozen years without having to make changes like what we have today. Do you have any idea how to change this system completely? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u300	Thank you very much. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Health of Mr Janusz Cieszyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u301	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. I also thank you very much for working on this project in committee. I am already in a hurry to give you a comprehensive answer. Starting by referring to some of the issues that have been raised in the course of the presentation of club positions, I would like to point out above all - I think that this is the most important thing, and here I also answer further questions - why we are making these changes at all. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these changes concern issues relating to the regulation of the refund of medicines prescribed by doctors who do not have a contract with the National Health Fund. In the case of the latter, the issues relating to the refund, the penalties, the checks shall be governed by the Regulation on the general terms and conditions of the contracts. We have exactly twin regulations in this regulation. This regulation gives the National Health Fund one advantage: if there is any doubt, if there is a penalty, it is very easy to do so, because it is simply deducted from the next payment from the National Health Fund. But here we are talking about a different case. We're talking about people who have the right to write a prescription for a refunded drug, but they're not connected to the National Health Fund by any agreement. That's why, in some exceptional cases, when you don't... [[Say it again.]] Am I obliged to...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u302	Minister, I don't know what this is about. Did you ask the Minister to repeat something? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Yes. [[Request repeat.]] Maybe you didn't hear me. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Two cases? [[Those two cases. Both.]] We have doctors who are connected with the National Health Fund contract or contract, and for those doctors the issues we are talking about here today are governed by the regulation on the general terms of the contract. On the other hand, the provisions contained in the Refund Act concern those doctors who do not have this agreement with the National Health Fund. These people, of course, have the opportunity to issue prescriptions for medicines refunded, which the National Health Fund co-finances, but in order to do so, there is no need to have any agreement with the fund. [[That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.]] Hence the difference between the law and the regulation. And now, ladies and gentlemen, for this reason, sanctions have been introduced in the Act in exceptional cases, the most serious ones that are now linked to the administrative penalty regime. In this case, it is simply easier for the National Health Fund to claim this than in the case of a wrongly written refund in other areas, where it is the subject of a judicial case or is dealt with on a normal civil road. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the difference is that we have a limited catalogue of cases, four cases which concern, in principle, non-cooperation with control, whether by refusing to give explanations at all or failing to make audit recommendations, but also a situation where there is no or unlawful medical documentation on the basis of which this refund can be determined. Ladies and gentlemen! Why are we even doing this? It has just turned out that it has been among doctors who do not have a contract with the National Health Fund, i.e. those referred to in these regulations, that we have detected the greatest abuse in recent years. Example: doctor from Katowice - 1800 thousand. PLN of refund, moreover, ladies and gentlemen, the refund of very potent drugs, which, according to all probability, could be used for the production of drugs. Another person from Łódź, also without a contract with NFZ-et - 1300 thousand. zł. These are, ladies and gentlemen, individual cases, absolutely exceptional situations, but we want to be ready for them. I would also like to point out that this law of 21 February introduces completely the new institution - the threshold for the triviality of the penalty. What does that mean? This means that penalties, which are below 500 PLN, are not prosecuted at all by the National Health Fund. You will say that these penalties up to 500 zlotys are probably very few. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, half of all the proceedings, all the checks, these are exactly the result of which is punishment of up to 500 zlotys, that is, these are trivial, minor issues, and we do not investigate this, because this is simply the case in the world, ladies and gentlemen, it does not pay anybody. We believe that, indeed, such mistakes may occur to those who are ruling on refunds in the regime adopted by the Civic Platform. Turning to the next questions by Mrs Płępek, Mrs Radziszewska, Mr Skutecki, whether we are planning any changes in how the refund is being implemented, I would like to say that we are planning. You can also read these proposals. These are included in the draft law, which has now entered the public consultation. It concerns among others. Just simplifying the refund. What makes it possible for us to introduce these simplifications? This enables us, above all, to introduce IT tools that allow us to observe the entire market. This is also what Mr Pyzik asked, which is whether we have the information that we can analyse on an ongoing basis. Yes, we do. We have them since 1 January, which is why it is still difficult to talk about the concrete use of this for the health of Poles, while these analyses are carried out and we will be conducting. We also want to use these proposals to have some information, which will also be useful to actively improve the health of the Polish society. So that we are working on changing the refund system, which was adopted by the Civic Platform in 2011. We are going to do this and you can already see the first steps on the page of the Government Legislative Center. As regards Mrs Tomaszewska's question about how much the National Health Fund costs, I would like to say that last year, the amount of penalties imposed in the framework of the medical ordination control amounted to PLN 4 million. It was about 400 proceedings, and the sum of penalties is PLN 4 million, while, as I say, the distribution is very uneven, because about half of these penalties These are penalties of up to 500 PLN, and on the other side we already have significant, large infringements that reduce the payer's budget for financing other medicines or benefits. Finally, I would also like to comment on the comments on... [[The answer to my question. What were the criteria, what to do and what not to do.]] [[Don't pay any attention.]] Madam President, I will try to answer so that there is no doubt. Madam President, we have been guided by what was first of all pointed out in the debate in the Senate by the General Chamber of Medicine, and we have simply been guided by the gradation of potential problems or potential abuses. The honourable Member pointed out that there was a condition that someone did not have the authority to issue prescriptions. It should be clarified that this is not about a situation where, for example, a doctor has not issued a prescription It's just somebody else, it's just a situation like this when someone's like this. issued a prescription for very powerful measures, which he did not have the authority to do. This is, however, a slightly different situation, so there is no situation here that these errors, this catalogue concerns issues less important than those that have been deleted. Ladies and gentlemen! I will refer to what the legislative process would look like. Ladies and gentlemen, February 21st, the Sejm adopted the biggest change in history regarding the process of control at the National Health Fund. [[We know. Centralized system.]] During the work in the Senate, during the meeting of the Senate committee, attention came from the Supreme Medical Chamber. Then we declared that we were in favour of these comments, but because there are a number of elements in the bill that are to come in from 1 June, because we wanted to make it possible to prepare issues related to the reorganisation of this audit corps, we decided that we would come up with a compromise solution and submit them to the Council of Ministers, which adopted it and passed it to the Parliament for work. So that, ladies and gentlemen, that is the wisdom that you have the ability to reflect, the ability to compromise. [[So you'll support the amendments.]] If we see that something that has been prepared by the government should be modified in some way, then we do it. Ladies and gentlemen, that is precisely what we are listening to what the medical community is saying. You remember perfectly well, you passed a refund bill, which ended up with doctors nailing stamps mass, that the refund is to the decision of the National Health Fund. These are real losses that Polish patients have suffered. [[Don't confuse me.]] Member, this is exactly the same act, exactly. I hope I've managed to clear up all the issues. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska is already officially from the podium as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u303	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! I have to say, I regret to say that now I understand why, in that bill, where this centralized check is, double penalties for prescription doctors have been added to it. That's why today, while you were answering, I asked you if I heard you correctly, and I asked you to repeat what you said again. I have to say, I'm not surprised we're dealing with this kind of legal bullshit. You cannot answer questions at the committee meeting or here because you have no idea of health law. Sir, Minister, you shouldn't be working in this department. You do not distinguish between basic concepts - health insurance doctor, doctor entitled to write prescriptions refunded and person not authorized to write prescriptions at all. You're messing with everything. You're referring to people's punishments in a mixed way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I must say that I will speak to Mr. Szumowski's superior, so that he may question exactly what you said here today, because it is scandalous that someone who is undersecretary of state at the Ministry... Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka: Thank you, Member. ...and presents the minister's position, has no basic knowledge of the law in health care, in the department that deals with this health care. Thank you very much, Marshal. It's a shame that someone like that gives us answers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u304	Thank you. Does the Minister want to answer? [[Next Misiewicz. These are the effects of putting Misiewicz in.]] Do you want to answer that? Quick decision, Minister: yes or no. No. Thank you, Minister. Good. I'll close the discussion then.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards a government draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. This amendment changes the so-called so-called "proceededed" at the beginning of this year. a statutory audit act that modified the functioning of the National Health Fund control unit. The provisions of the amended law allowed administrative penalties to be imposed on entitled persons within the meaning of the Refund Act. The solutions proposed today, as the applicants point out, aim to harmonise the nature and amount of penalties for misdefining the level of refund of prescriptions. As a result, the catalogue of cases for which penalties may be imposed in the form of an administrative penalty for the conduct of medical records in a way that is not in accordance with the law and the absence of medical records on the appropriateness and regularity of prescription for medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices and orders for medical devices has been reduced. I am convinced that government proposals, by preventing double punishment for the same activity, go in the right and desired direction by the interested environment and meet the expectations of patients. In addition to the above changes, it is also envisaged to extend the application of the ban on penalties of up to PLN 500, also to follow-up proceedings under the provisions in force prior to the entry into force of the Law of 21 February 2019. A long discussion on the validity and relevance of this solution took place in the process of the previous revision of the refund law. These are good regulation, improving the system and serving individual medicinal products, and thus patients. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the solution contained in this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u306	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutritional Use and Medical Devices and certain other laws (Prints Nos 3409 and 3463). I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I would like to present a report from the Committee on Printing No 3309, the Act amending the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutritional Use and Medical Devices and certain other laws. The draft law submitted to the committee concerns two important areas of the health system. The first is the question of access to medical devices for persons with disabilities. The proposed amendments support the implementation of a system which exempts persons receiving medical devices from the obligation to confirm the right to benefits in the voivodship of the National Health Fund. It will be verified via the electronic system, so that the patient will go to the store or pharmacy directly from the doctor's office. In addition, the proposal provides for a significant reduction in the number of data on the order and allows the Health Minister to issue additional simplified models to further reduce the volume of the form. The proposed changes in the medical device supply system reflect the expectations of all patients, doctors and traders selling products. This is particularly important because a significant proportion of patients supplied with medical devices by the National Health Fund are people with disabilities whose welfare is particularly important. The second amendment is to modify the financing model of the TOP SOR project, which aims to improve the organisation of work in hospital emergency services. In view of the effectiveness of spending on the implementation of the scheme, which will be financed entirely by the Ministry of Health, it is necessary to allow for the payment of part of the expenditure on implementation in the second phase still in 2019. This will enable the implementation of the system in a uniform form, which will facilitate management and reduce its long-term maintenance costs. The Health Committee requests the adoption of a draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u308	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to give a positive opinion on the proposed amendment to the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices and some other laws. Law and Justice together with the Ministry of Health helps to reduce bureaucracy in order to devote more time to the patient. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I recommend the adoption of the above-mentioned bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u310	Thank you. I invite Mr Rajmund Miller from the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices, print No 3409. The principles of this law are good because it aims to improve patients' access to medical devices. But we need to lean over the details of this bill. This amendment concerns practically the amendment of the three laws, i.e. the law I was talking about, the law on the information system in health care and the law on healthcare provision. If we agree that there is a simplification regarding the way of registration, the way in which documentation is stored, the way of control, then we accept it. On the other hand, we cannot accept the provision in this law, which provides for the optional creation of a new model of proposals for patients by the Minister of Health, because if he does not create it, we can actually throw it in the trash. We do not oblige him in this law to make such a proposal, and therefore these proposals will not be and all the unnecessary data that you praise, that you will remove it, will not be removed from the existing proposals and this request for medical supplies will still have seven pages. The Civic Platform Club therefore proposes amendments to this law. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point is replaced by the following: 7. the following paragraph shall be added. 7a as follows: 7a. The Minister responsible for Health shall determine, by means of a regulation, and was: may specify simplified patterns of procurement orders and simplified models of repair orders, taking into account the specificities of individual medical devices and the minimum data to ensure the proper execution of orders. This results in the next amendment to the Article. 1 in point 1 in point (a) c. In the added mouth. 6c point 2 shall be replaced by the following: 2) simplified, and confirmation of the right to health care and verification of the order shall be carried out via the Fund's Internet services or information services. We also propose a change in the implementation of the law, because the provision proposed by you bears the risk that this law will not be transposed by the Sejm and signed by the President, so we propose in the article. 6th Act enters into force on 1 September 2019 with the exception of Article. Article 2 and Article 2 3 which enter into force 14 days after the publication of the law. I'm handing it over to the Marshal. Minister, we have reservations about another legislative mess. We do not understand why you once again enter into the laws, as in the Refund Act, provisions concerning changes in the financing of the SORs. It's just a legislative mess. We expected that you, after what has been going on lately in the SORs, after many deaths, after many misfortunes, would introduce regulations to improve the activities of the SORs. We are lacking in the provisions of this law the resources that will be devoted to the functioning of the SORs. Each law should have specific financial consequences. It is true that you are talking about 2020 about the implementation of this law, because today is just a programme - we are talking about a patient care programme in the SORs. Today, only those SORs that are at clinical hospitals or their founding body are financed are the Ministry. However, after the introduction of this law, all hospitals in Poland, which run SORs, will ask for the allocation of funds. The state of these measures is not showing. We do not see them today, and therefore there is a very questionable provision of this law and there is a very questionable effect. We expect you to act really quickly on improving the SORs. If the Minister is talking in the case of the previous law on public finances and public finances, the financials of the NFZ, and you are talking about penalties imposed on doctors of PLN 4 million, I would like to ask the Minister where is the care of the Ministry of Health for penalties imposed for illegal drug exports. The penalties imposed are PLN 47 million, Minister. Penalties which should be imposed after checks, i.e. PLN 800.900 million. You didn't enforce any gold, and now look at the amount of that money and the ministry's operation. We have strengthened our position and supported you in the case of the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A refund against drug export, but that's what needs to be enforced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u312	Thank you. And I invite Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 regarding the government draft law amending the Refund Act on drugs, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices and certain other laws. Minister! If we hear about simplifications, facilitations, cutting red tape and the time needed to write prescriptions and all other medical documents, then Kukiz15 is obviously in favour, because this is the right course of action. If it is still supported by a truly functioning recipe, if we use the technological innovations that the 21st century brings us. - including the Internet and its communication - this is the direction we need to support. That is why we will vote in favour of this bill, and I will personally persuade the club to vote in favour of it. On the other hand, Minister, we must be aware of what the Office of Sejm Analysis has brought to your attention, and I quote: "The amendment of the law adopted by the Sejm 2 months ago indicates that there is no permanent basis for axiological and organisational changes proposed. Minister! If this law gives the minister the opportunity, but we do not oblige him to prepare documents to improve the whole process, then we are again proceeding with a law that will not work as the ministry and its authors have planned. The Sejm Analysis Office has a few other doubts. The Minister tried to dispel these doubts, but with different results. Minister! As far as we're concerned, we're in favour. As for the form, please make this bill a little better. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices and certain other laws. High Seym! The existing provisions in this regard, and we are talking specifically about the Law of 12 May 2011 on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices, say that certain specific refund operations take place at two stages of the delivery of the order for medical devices. The first stage is the verification of the right to healthcare services, the second stage is the possession of specific rights by the patient. Both shall be carried out at the time of issue of the order and the issue of the medical device. This means that on the date of acceptance of the order a state of uncertainty arises both on the part of the patient and the provider carrying out the order. This is due to the fact that only on the date of issue of the medical device should the right to healthcare services be verified and the right to specific rights be exercised. This means the actual execution of the order, although the order has already been accepted for execution. And the change that is proposed, which is included in this law and for which we shall vote, goes in such a way that the confirmation of the right to healthcare provision by the patient takes place in two stages. First at the time of issue and then at the time of acceptance of the order to be executed. And that's the important difference, because so far, as I said, there was a verification at the time of the release of the medical device. Now the verification of the order will take place only at the stage of its issue, except that the provider, when executing the order, will be obliged to check the age of the recipient if this affects the financing limit. Therefore, once the mandate has been adopted, the patient's powers will generally not be verified, except for a few exceptions. These exceptions are among others. an examination of the patient's age as well as the presentation of a document confirming the acquisition of additional allowances after the date of issue of the order. High Seym! It is also worth noting that orders will be issued for a period of not more than 12 consecutive calendar months from the date of issue and not, as so far, for the period of implementation. Thus, the concept will be removed: the implementation period and this will eliminate doubts as to whether the order can be executed during the period of validity of the order. Similarly, a change in orders for medical devices will be made every month. High Seym! The proposed changes concern patients as well as those who issue orders and executioners, and are to some extent a compensation to the demands of patients and the Chief Medical Chamber. For these reasons, on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I declare that we will support the proposed rules and changes in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u316	Thank you. I invite Mr Marek Ruciński from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club with regard to the draft law amending the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutritional Use and Medical Devices and some other laws. This project can be divided into two completely independent parts. On the one hand, the designer proposes changes which relate to the verification of orders for special nutritional purposes. On the other hand, in the same sejm printing, it introduces new possibilities for hospital emergency services to be financed directly by the Ministry of Health. Understanding the key that project authors have applied by combining these two issues in a single novel goes beyond the boundaries of human logic. Apart from this fact, there is always respect for thousands of patients who are directly involved in the first part of the project. This is the part we should focus on separately. These provisions concern, to some extent, the simplification of the process of verifying orders for foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses. They should facilitate the whole process and ensure that patients have access to the above-mentioned measures. At the same time, it is important to implement the Ministry's announcements on the revision of the regulation, which will determine the model for such an order. I would also like to refer to the second part of the project, which changes the introduction of the TOPSOR system. As much as it is needed, we all know, therefore it is important to allocate adequate resources to implement it. The provisions allowing the funding of these measures under the special subsidy directly from the budget of the Ministry of Health - that would be a step in the right direction. However, as always, finances remain a question of doubt. The Sejm Analysis Office notes that the extension of the catalogue of entities should entail an increase in the resources planned for this purpose. However, it is difficult to find rules on this issue in this project. Therefore, the question arises about the possibility of implementing the contested law and the purpose of the solutions introduced. Finally, I would like to point out that, as in the case of Print Act 3408, which we have just discussed, this amendment is another example of the improvement of the law adopted in this term of office of the Sejm. Whether this is due to ignorance, unwillingness to listen to experts' opinions or pure arrogance, I do not know. But the truth is, we're wasting our time instead of working on the solutions that patients are waiting for. How else can we specify the situation in which we are dealing with shifting the date of entry into force of the rules adopted just three months ago? Minister! If you have too much free time in the department where you work, I would suggest that you engage with health care professionals so that further professional groups do not have to demand better working conditions and pay through protest. Modern, despite the fact that it does not support the rules of legislation applied by the current government, will vote in favour of this proposal. The patient cannot be held responsible for the fact that the Ministry of Health has once again ignored the opinion of the social side, as a result of which we have to work twice on the same solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u318	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zwierzan presented her position in writing. Let's get to the questions. Question time - 1 minute. You're starting with Mr Szczerba. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When I talk to older people, I ask them what is the biggest problem for them when it comes to health care. First of all, he's gonna get into a specialist's office. Sometimes they wait six months for that. The second point is the prospect of being in the SOR. This is an absolute tragedy. What's going on at the S.R.s is armageddon. And that's the key issue. This amendment will in no way improve the situation in the SORs. This must be said directly, it must be said in this House that this situation has deteriorated as a result of Minister Radziwiłł's decision, which has eliminated the night and Christmas care of family doctors. This caused that in the afternoon in the S.R., as it is said colloquially, they bang doors and windows all, from cataracts to serious injuries or even strokes. We want to, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the standard is that waiting in line for the SOR may not be longer than 60 minutes. This should also be a challenge for you, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u320	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you two questions. First: Will a system called patient care in the hospital emergency department be an integrated system so that the dispatcher in charge of the emergency system will have data from individual departments, which can be used to direct the victims to less burdened facilities? This is particularly important in case of emergency situations where many victims suddenly appear, for example. in the event of communication or other such events. Second: Is there a real need to extend the transitional period until 1 January 2021 in connection with this revision to support the implementation of the system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u322	Thank you. Mr Rajmund Miller.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u323	Minister! In the explanatory memorandum, we are talking about making it easier for patients to access medicines, making it easier for patients to access medical devices. Minister! I have a question: When are you going to introduce a system where a specialist doctor will be able to write a prescription refunded to a patient over the age of 75? This really is a barrier created by you, because a patient, being a doctor of a specialist, receives a prescription from him, but without refund, even though he is a patient over 75 years of age, and has to go back to his family doctor. You're making double queues. I ask: When are you going to standardize and introduce... Why does a specialist doctor have different rights than a family doctor? It's illegal and abnormal. That's what's wrong with the patient. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u324	Mrs Margaret Navel. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The act under investigation concerns the provision of patients with medical devices and new task regulations, namely patients, doctors issuing orders for the execution and verification of orders for medical devices. Without a doubt, the amendment simplifies the process of verifying orders and how they are issued by the National Health Fund. Also the obligation to keep records from the provider. Nevertheless, the operation of hospital emergency services, which are facing financial difficulties, is worrying. I have a question: Are financial resources secured for the SORs and how much? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u326	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u327	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! The first question concerns the SORs. There's a lot of people going to the S.R.S. The SOR doctor has no right to discharge medications for senior 75+ and someone who is going for help at the SOR has to go to the family doctor the next day. It's a cardinal mistake that neither a specialist doctor nor a doctor who discharges a patient after being in hospital nor a doctor at the S.R.R. can discharge them to a senior. When are you gonna change that? It's about time. Secondly, during the committee meeting, you said that you could not give up the optionality of the regulation, because the delegation's content for the regulation which is included here is incomplete, incomplete, and on the basis of this delegation it is not possible to issue a regulation. I agree with you. That's the truth. Besides, we have this in our expert opinion, which says that there is such an indeterminate guideline that we can really expect different things. But the failure to adopt this regulation will result in this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the laws of this law will be dead. So there's even good rules for nothing if there's no regulation. Question: "Will you change the content of the delegation for a regulation by the Minister of Health on simplifying the procedure for the award of medical devices?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u328	Thank you. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u329	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, the fact that we have a legislative mess in the Health Committee is really embarrassing. First of all, we introduced AOS in patient rights, now reimbursement cases and SORs. Really, Minister, this is outrageous. But I want to address the S.R. case. In my opinion, Minister, the problem with the SORs isn't just financial, it's systemic. And if you don't do this on a system, even if there's a lot of money, we're not gonna solve this problem. And that's why we have a problem in the S.R.s that three things have been completely wrongly done. The first thing is the night's Christmas aid that's been taken out. The second thing is a network of hospitals. The third thing is the AOS, which, according to the hospital network law, were to be contracted completely differently and were to function completely differently. These three things have really caused us to have a huge crowd at the SORs right now. My question is this, Minister: What system changes are to help solve [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that a problem? And when it comes to funding, please tell me because it is written in the explanatory memorandum that it is from the state budget: What is the amount and where is the source of funding for this task? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u330	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the public consultation of this project. In the course of the consultation, the national consultant in the field of pharmaceutical analytics commented on the method of verification by the provider of the age of the recipient, indicating that the age of the recipient was, after all, determined at the time of issue of the order. [[PESEL.]] Why would such an important and obvious issue, I would say how the way of determining the age of the recipient, has not been taken into account? Undoubtedly, a national consultant is an authority. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u332	Thank you. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u333	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a question that is extremely important for the protection of health without long introduction on this occasion. The Minister knows that there are diagnes, physiotherapists, paramedics. You have failed to honour your obligation to resident doctors, and these people cannot count on what you have agreed with them. Therefore - these are workers who cost, their education costs a lot - without finding attractive employment rates, travel abroad and lack of workers in health care. That's one thing. Second thing. After all, they are paid from the county hospital budget. And the hospital network law unfortunately caused a lot of hospitals to have financial difficulties, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Okay. 140. So what are you gonna do when the health care system gets in the way of hospital debt and staff leaving? Please, these are basic questions about the quality of health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u334	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Health of Mr Janusz Cieszyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u335	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm gonna go back to the questions that came out in the O.R. today. Let me start with Mr Pyzik's question: Will the dispatcher of the State Medical Rescue have a preview of the TOPSOR system? Yes, he will. And we are really hoping that this system - in addition to the mechanisms that are already being applied today - will allow the dispatcher to obtain better information about how the workload on hospital emergency services looks like. As regards the question of why the changes we are proposing are entering into force from 1 January 2020, I would like to point out that this is mainly due to the demands of the medical community, which indicate that, due to the need to implement changes in information systems in functioning offices, such extended vacathio legis preceded by appropriate pilotage should apply. As regards the question that Mr Miller raised, but also other Members, when we introduce 75+ medicines that are written outside basic health care, the draft law on the implementation of health care solutions is currently being consulted, and there we propose a solution that will allow us to expand the catalogue of people who are entitled to discharge 75+ medicines. The decision that they should be discharged only by POZ doctors was primarily based on the fact that the POZ doctor would simply have full control over what medications would go to the patient under this particular program. At the moment when we share an IT system that shows all the recipes that are displayed, implemented, in fact this problem disappears and this possibility exists. That is why we propose such a change in this bill. As regards Mrs Płępek and later Mrs Małecka-Libera's question on how much money we will spend to finance this system, ladies and gentlemen, the changes we are talking about in this bill do not concern the entire financing of hospital emergency services, but the implementation of patient care in hospital emergency units, the central IT system, and this will fully finance both central and local hospitals in the Ministry of Health. 50 million PLN will be allocated to this system. This is the amount that will come from the resources of the European Union also from the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment. In addition to the funds for building the system, there are also resources to equip hospital rescue teams with additional equipment, which will also be used in the operation of patients in hospital emergency units. As regards Mrs Malecka-Libera's question, what systemic changes we are planning in hospital emergency services, I would like to inform you that the Law of 21 February provides, among other things, for this purpose. as part of changes to hospital emergency services, the introduction of a mandatory standard as defined by the Triage Regulation in each such entity throughout Poland. Uniform rules in our assessment will improve and improve the quality of patient service in hospital emergency services. On the other hand, as regards the issue of medical devices and this simplified design, it is worth remembering something, ladies and gentlemen. You are pointing out that the changes we are proposing are optionally issued regulations, that we will not consummate these simplifications, that there will be no real shortening of this form, that it will still have 7 pages. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the simplified designs and the basic formula, the length of this basic formula form, which allows the placing of an order on any medical device, already on the basis of these provisions - the corresponding design has been submitted - has been reduced to 4 pages. On the other hand, with regard to simplified models, there are further simplifications which result from this. So in order to visualize this, we have today on a model order for medical devices - and it was also on those patterns that were in operation before - the possibility of actually issuing an order for any medical device, i.e. we have a section on stomas, a section on lenses, a section on diaper-masks. It's all on one document, ladies and gentlemen. On the other hand, what we want to propose in terms of simplified designs is the possibility of issuing orders for medical devices, which include e.g. Lens. Then all we have is this piece about the patient's data and information about the lens parameters, and the rest of the data that the National Health Fund needs. This is an example of a simplified formula. Another example of the simplified formula. The order design has among others. the field where the National Health Fund indicates the reason for the negative verification, i.e. why the IT system rejected the order which was transferred to the Fund. And, ladies and gentlemen, if the verification is positive, and that's what we know when the order is issued, one of the possible simplifications is to remove this field from the form. This is another simplification. Here's another example. The Act indicates that patients who do not have a PESEL number are asked for the date of birth, the number of the document, e.g. ID card or passport issued in another country. And if we have a patient with a PESEL number, we can imagine that we're also removing this block that contains information about additional documents. These are just three examples that I'm giving you here. As you can see, all these solutions are really possible to apply simultaneously, which means there may be a patient who has a PESEL number, has a positive verification and has a lens commissioned, but there may also be one that has PESEL, has a negative verification and has a lens commissioned. Hence, ladies and gentlemen, if this delegation you are proposing to enter here is to mention all cases... You point out that we need to issue this regulation, and I understand that, only that then the delegation that you have proposed in your amendment still does not foresee what cases this is going to be about, so we really need to... [[And that's for you to decide.]] ...then spend at least two, because there's a plural, and what, again, is that recipe you proposed... [[I'm sorry, Minister, we're asking you not to... we're just asking the Minister to decide.]] Mr President, what I wanted to say is that, on the basis of these three short examples that I have just described to you, eight different designs can be indicated. [[It's up to you.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You say: let us accept an obligation instead of an optional one to mobilize us to work, only that, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that if, on the basis of these three examples, I point out that there are eight designs, then in the situation if, according to your expectation, we did not fulfil this obligation, this potential yield would actually be small. So that I ask for the credit and for you to believe that we really want to simplify this. And I am committed to you that no later than 1 July, we will pass on the models of these regulations for consultation. I hope that you will then believe that the declarations we make here are not empty. And one more technical remark. You asked about the issue related to the date of birth. Indeed, it sounds rather strange: verification of the date of birth. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the point is that so far the rules have required the contractor to verify, at three stages, whether the patient has lost the right to benefit from a certain amount of funding from the fund. For example, there are medical devices that are co-financed until the patient reaches the age of 26. So it's not that we're going to be several times, e.g. in a medical device store, verify on the basis of proof that the patient is 10, 15 or 20 years old, only we will verify this information about the date at two moments: firstly, at the time of issue, secondly, at the time of entry into service, i.e. we are giving up the third stage provided for so far in the legislation, i.e. the stage of issuing the order. Why are we doing this, ladies and gentlemen? These rules in the current wording would lead in an extreme case to the fact that, if between the date of adoption and the date of implementation, for example, someone had exceeded the date of implementation. age threshold, it would lose part of the refund rights. It would simply be less or less refundable, which would be detrimental to the patient. So that, in our view, this allows the patient's interests to be dealt with, and our analysis clearly shows that there is no way that this will lead to any damage to the National Health Fund's budget. In addition, we take it as a priority that it is the doctor who decides when the medical device is prescribed whether it is due to the patient if the payer decides that it is such and not another level of funding. And that should be maintained. And these are all the answers to the questions that came up in the discussion. I hope I have been able to give you comprehensive answers. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u336	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u337	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! That's what we talked about in the committee, that you don't understand the legislative technique and the rules of law making. You cannot create a formula for a simplified or any model document that is to be used in circulation, especially because it involves money, because the state finances medical devices without a statutory delegation. I mean, you've already put this simplified formula into consultation. So far there have been two sides, you have proposed seven, and, as you said, there are four after discussions and negotiations. Where, then, is simplification? Four pages is more than two pages. Secondly, Minister - if there is no regulation - please read the substantive expertise on this law. Part of the articles of this law without this regulation will not lead to any simplification, they will simply be dead. I'll give you that expertise right away. Therefore, Minister, I don't think you understood my question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and you are still going in that direction that there is no need for a regulation, and you have just confirmed that the proposal for a delegation to issue a regulation is ill-written. We are merely proposing to delete the word "may" and the content of the delegation that you have so strongly criticised is yours. Thank you very much, at least that indicates a certain amount of self-criticism. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u338	Thank you very much. I'm closing... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: I would like to speak again.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Here you go, read it, I marked it for you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u339	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to correct that false information that's gone. It is clearly stated in the proposed law that the Minister of Health is obliged to issue a regulation which will determine the design of the order and the repair order. The Minister for Health has submitted a proposal on this subject for a public consultation. That's the first line. [[Simplified.]] In addition, the Minister of Health has the opportunity to provide a simplified formula. And such a proposal, the Ministry, contrary to what Mrs Radziszewska just said, has not submitted any consultations, but this is what I have committed myself to, ladies and gentlemen, just now, that by 1 July the Ministry of Health will benefit, if this law is adopted and adopted, from the possibility of proposing simplified designs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But you confirm what I'm saying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u340	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment concerns regulations which are intended to improve patients' access to medical devices, including mainly those with disabilities. In 2018 4.6 million orders co-financed by the National Health Fund were completed, including 1.6 million one-off orders and 3 million monthly orders, and the budget for the reimbursement of medical devices amounted to PLN 1.2 billion. The amended provisions, as justified, are intended to facilitate the supply of medical devices, e.g. orthopedic inserts, carts, prosthetics and lenses. The facilitations will apply to both patients, those who issue orders and those who implement them. The draft amendment to the Act clarifies the issue and execution of orders for medical devices. Minister! What is the target group of recipients of this law? How many patients, people with disabilities, will benefit from the entry into force of the proposed regulation? What will be the total expenditure on the entry into force of these provisions?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutritional Purposes and Medical Devices and some other laws. The aim of this project is to improve patient access to medical devices. Its regulations aim to introduce a number of changes in the issue and execution of orders for these products. I agree that the new rules, taking into account the demands of patients, the Chief Medical Chamber and entrepreneurs in the medical device industry, will serve each group of people. According to the government's proposal, patients will not have to confirm paper documents in NFZ units because they will be able to do so remotely. This makes it easier, in my opinion, especially for a group of patients with disabilities, for whom any extension of the process of obtaining a given product is extremely burdensome. In addition, simplified order patterns are also envisaged to cover a narrower range of information. Although the general order pattern will still contain all the necessary information relating to all product categories, only a limited number of patient data can be provided with a simplified solution, e.g. the PESEL number and the name. I am convinced that this is a positive solution. In view of the short duration of the patient's visit to the office, it is necessary to introduce solutions to reduce bureaucracy which the doctor must perform in connection with the visit so that he can devote more time to his patient and his problem. I have no doubt that the proposed rules are good and that they will achieve the objectives set out, which will make it easier for many Poles. About Free and Solidarni supports this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u343	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Before we proceed to the next point of order, I would like to warmly welcome the representatives of the Rural Housewives in Gąsina, the Turkish district. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations (print No 3404). I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska to state the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u344	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Visitors to the Gallery! On behalf of Members of the applicants, my colleagues at the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I would like to present a draft law amending the law on inheritance tax and donations, print No 3404. I would like to give this law the title: We Love Children Act. Why do I say that? I'll try to justify it. We're amending the 1983 Act. As a Member representing applicants, I had the opportunity in 2006 to present to the High House a draft amendment to the Act on inheritance tax and donations, which exempts from tax persons who make donations and inheritances in the first tax group, i.e. initial transfers of inheritance or a replacement donation: parents of children and grandparents of grandchildren and spouses so that even when one of them dies, the other does not have to pay a common property tax. We've been waiting for that shift, and she's gone. A tax on earned money, i.e. income tax, and VAT, has already been paid on the joint property that has become a donation or a decrease, and when the house was built. It seemed unfair that, in the case of inheritances and donations, the tax paid once again was paid. I am very pleased that the High House has divided this position and adopted the bill. I believe that the adoption of this bill is a great success for the High House and demonstrates its understanding of the subject. Nevertheless, we must admit that we have forgotten about another group, which we believe should not pay tax if they receive a donation or inheritance. We ask for this in this project. This applies to children from foster homes or foster homes. It is those who create families for them who have the right to own their wealth and to hand it over to those who love them, and they have the right to receive it. We appeal to Members of the Law and Justice. We want you to accept this solution. It shows that if we live in a family and have our own children - born and raised in a family - they should not be treated differently than children who live, live in foster homes and love their parents. We want this group to not pay tax either. Today she pays this tax. I'll give you an example. In the event of a drop of about 500,000. PLN they have to pay thirty several thousand zloty tax. After all, these people also worked so that the family could have a certain wealth and they were very loved in this family. We should not treat those children who were born in a family other than those who were raised in a foster home. It is high time to show that we can understand and correct this important mistake in our opinion. Of course, we can talk about the consequences for local governments, because inheritance tax and donations are the revenue of local governments. Believe me, when we presented the project in 2006 - later a project was born that was then the case - we agreed not to pay such a tax. At that time, the most striking example was the situation concerning the assets of the spouses in common. When one of his mates died, the other had to pay a tax on the money he saved together. Then we all in this House felt it would be fair if we did not pay inheritance tax and donations in the first tax group. Today, I urge you and your fellow Members in the High House, representatives of all sides of the political scene, so that, together, we can lean over the divisions of this project. He doesn't have party colors. He's talking about justice to those we love. He's talking about the freedom of those who want to give it to the children they love. And we care very much, even though there aren't many sessions until the end of this term, so that it's our joint success. There's no room for criticism, there's no room for division. We were able to adopt together a project, this amendment of the law on inheritance tax and donations over any division, despite the discussion whether there should be a limit amount, despite the discussion of how much local governments will lose. It is about fixing this law so that children from their family homes, children who are raised in foster homes, can benefit from it. I dare say that every side of the political scene will understand that every government in this case will understand that this law is needed and that this is a solution we can introduce. This is case one. The second point, when we are talking about tax and this technical issue, our scope of legislation is not governed by any EU legislation. So it's up to us in this room to see if we can support this project. The point is to make it quick. Let me thank Mrs Krzywonos, whom we all know, who has a great heart for children, who is a bachelor of the Order of Smile, who helps and will always help children. She said that this situation should be corrected. In this case, maybe we ran out of imagination, maybe we didn't feel the same way she did. We've missed this group. I think in this room in family situations... She doesn't cost a lot of budget, she's definitely needed and we'll support her. We're going to show by adopting this short bill that we all love children. And then there's the technical stuff. It is all about the situation where the amount of inheritance and donation tax has not been established, i.e. this transitional provision. All these situations will deal with the solutions proposed in this amendment. Once again, Mrs Marshal, I urge everyone in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, to tell their colleagues in their clubs that we should not share in this matter that we should be together on this matter, that this matter is extremely important. Mrs Henryce Krzywonos, on behalf of the whole environment to which this draft law will apply... We supported it. Mrs Krzywonos-Strycharska has received a lot of votes, how much this solution is expected in this environment. If we love, if we can show a big heart, we can do a little step here, but we need it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u345	Thank you very much, Member. Before we proceed to the club statements, I would like to welcome the youth from Zawiercie and Laz, who is in the Sejm today and listening to the proceedings. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Czesław Janczyk, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. [[Wiesław.]] Wiesław. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u346	Thank you very much, Marshal. Czesława is my mom, and the mistake isn't far. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club with regard to the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations. At the outset, I will say that the Law and Justice Club will request that the project be directed to further work in the Committee on Public Finance and the Permanent Sub-Committee to monitor the tax system. Why? Because in the explanatory memorandum it seems possible to recall more detailed statistical data, impact data, data on public consultation, consultation with associations of municipal, municipal and district authorities. The idea is to get to know the opinions of these bodies, which often have comments, that there is a law in this House that imposes responsibilities on local governments without a proper consultative path. It's the first observation. Personally, I am very touched by the comments made by the applicant. I don't think there's anyone in this room who would think differently about this sphere, although it has its complications. What? We've been in transition for 30 years. Tax law evolves in different areas. Firstly, the decision to depart from the tax on donations during this period was taken by the Government of Law and Justice. Since 1 January 2007, we have a new law. When we are here, we probably didn't benefit from it because we were first given by our parents and paid the tax. All the more reason why we have a delegation to objectively look for a path that could be followed. I would like to say that different countries have different approaches to inheritance tax exemptions. This has far-reaching implications for the public finances of the largest countries, the most economically strong, because the relevant lobbies, which sought a good path to the transfer of wealth from generation to generation, but these largest assets, multi-billion-dollar fortunes, have found effective methods of handling this law, but to the detriment of public finances, in favour of the great debt then in financial institutions. I pay attention to this detail, because it is quite well explained in professional literature, and it is always worth remembering. But this context, if you'll excuse me, because I do believe that, for public finances, the amount of exemption that we are talking about is indeed small, at the end, if this law were to be adopted. I share this view that there is a delegation to talk about this, and I would like to thank the Minister Philip Świtale here and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, because this means that the Government of Law and Justice is taking this area very seriously today. I wouldn't want to throw away to the previous government that there's been no empathy for eight years to solve, for example. There's a problem... [[What are you saying?]] Because it could be resolved during previous governments, the PO-PSL coalition. I have to say this because it's not the truth revealed, it's the facts. Ladies and gentlemen! Besides, there's one thing I want to say. I think no government in the history of the Third Republic of Poland has done as much for the Polish family as the Government of Law and Justice. I will say that we are already spending almost PLN 100 billion on social policy, and that the 500+ programme has already protected every child from family destruction in many situations, and will not cause this exception in terms of support, the care of the state in foster care, family homes of the child, in this case also subsidised by the State with different amounts depending on whether it is a professional family or a related family. It's aid through monthly payments, but it's also called out when you're 18 when you're 18 years old. It's not a big amount, but the state works without overlooking the problem itself. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have a long discussion ahead of us. I will not go into the details of this law, because it is especially in the article. 2 makes a certain gateway to unequal treatment of taxpayers, or rather to reward those who have behaved in the past in an unreliable way, i.e. either they have not made a statement, or they have done so lately, or they have not done so at all, so before us, I think, a discussion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] May it be fruitful, and may it follow the direction of the idea presented by the applicants. I therefore request that the project be sent to work in committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u347	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club a proposal to amend the law on inheritance tax and donations, print No 3404. According to data from the Central Statistical Office at the end of 2017, 55,761 children deprived of partial or complete care of the natural family were covered by family foster care. Most of them continue to identify with their carers after leaving family foster care, recognizing them as their natural family. Therefore, we find it highly unfair that any donations or inheritances from people who have replaced their parents for most of their childhoods are subject to high taxes on inheritance or donations. It's about getting ex-tenants into the third tax group of strangers. In the name of social justice, foster parents should be able to give a donation or inheritance on the basis of a will to their former wards on the same principles as natural or adoptive families, i.e. they should be included in the first group. High Izbo! Minister! I just wanted to say that when I took my kids, they were very small. I accepted children from the orphanage who were sick and moving, swinging all over the place. They were rejected and rejected by the public. They were disgusted. Over the years, my children grew like butterflies. They were getting more beautiful, smarter, more arranged, they started eating with a knife and fork, which would seem normal to somebody. [[Applause]] But for us, it wasn't normal. It's not normal that we don't teach our children that our neighbors' children behave completely differently. We've had to work very hard on this. We got together after all these years, we became a family. Today I have 12 children and 13 grandchildren. We're still living like family. My children have never returned to their homes. I once went back to where my parents were, and I'm from a pathological family... I came back, and I could take an example of them. I'd probably stay, I'd say a streetwalker. But it didn't. Neither are my children. So, ladies and gentlemen, when you take in little children, when you take care of them, you think they're ours. My husband always said that kids aren't ping-pong balls, that you can't take them and then bounce the other way. We both knew that if we took them, they'd be ours. We knew that they had to accept us, and we knew that we loved them with all our heart. Only love could make them what they are today. There are a lot of foster families or foster homes for me, people who want to leave their children, their children, people who think they're children, anything after themselves. I've got 12 kids, one of them I've adopted completely. I can't imagine leaving anything behind for this one and not for the others. Therefore, please feel and think with your heart. There's so much you set up here so fast, they're passing through. We only have three more meetings. Let's do whatever it takes to get these kids, already hit by fate, through their parents, into the first tax group. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u349	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u350	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear guests at the gallery! We have this problem because it is 2019, and the legislation related to the widely understood family, as I have already mentioned many times from this speaker, comes from Stalinist times. This is the family code and caring code, virtually without much change since then, and this is unfortunately the treatment of children who are raised in foster homes and foster homes. Many years ago, there were simply no such institutions. There were sturdy, nightmare children's homes, which unfortunately still can be found somewhere in Poland and which Ministry sooner or later - I hope sooner - will close the hells, because it is not done anywhere in the world. Now, indeed, family homes are being built. Now he's betting on foster families, because in this worst nightmare situation, when the baby's not close to blood, that's how you can make a substitute. A substitute? This way you can create a real, loving family. It doesn't matter if it's a biological family or if it's a loving family. Minister! Mr. Speaker! You've been looking in this bill for a little... She may not be perfect, but she's going in the perfect direction. If, during these next three sessions of the Sejm of this term, we give these children, these families the same rights as the other children, it was probably worth being a member of this term. Let's just do it. It's a short bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one page. One side and so much harm to be done. Of course, the Kukiz15 will vote for this in the dark. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u351	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u352	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations, print No 3404. Ladies and gentlemen! The project under investigation has no impact on the competitiveness of the economy or on the labour market. This is a project consisting of an exemption from the tax on acquisition by inheritance or a donation of property ownership by persons who reside or reside in a foster family or family of a child's home referred to in the Act of 9 June 2011 to support the family and the foster care system, where the donor or heir was the person who formed the foster family or runs the family home of the child in which the person who was given or the heir was resident. Parents or foster parents in their family homes should be able to make a donation or inheritance on the basis of their will without exposing them to tax burdens, which often exceed the financial capacity of these children. It is worth pointing out here that in most cases, foster children are raised as part of their childhood. A child raised in a family home or a foster home in many cases considers his carers to be real parents, and vice versa: carers view them as their own for the rest of their lives. Therefore, it is highly unfair in society that when a parent prescribes his or her replacement property in the form of a will or hand over a donation to an independent, i.e. an adult, a parent still in the life of a guardian has to pay tax on inheritances or donations as an alien, belonging to the third tax group, i.e. in full height. At the same time, it should be noted that an adopted child or a stepson is not subject to this tax obligation. The new Articles and the revised existing rules lay down certain conditions for donors in order to eliminate cases of abuse. In its entirety, we view this step as a change in the right direction, which is why the club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats will support the proposed changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u353	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the law on inheritance tax and donations. High Izbo! The bill we are discussing is intended to exempt from the obligation to pay inheritance tax and donations to persons who reside or reside in a foster family or family home where the donor or heir was the person who formed the foster family or runs the family home of the child in which the person was staying. In many cases, a child who is in a family home or foster home considers his guardians to be real parents, as well as caretakers consider such children to be their own, for the rest of his life. For these reasons, it is highly unfair that an adult is required to pay tax when his foster parent prescribes his possessions in the form of a will or gives a donation to him in his lifetime. This is because the pupils in question are now treated as members of the third tax group. At the same time, an adopted child or a stepson is not subject to this tax obligation. Parents or foster caretakers in their family homes should be able to make a donation or inheritance on the basis of their will without exposing them to tax burdens, which often exceed the financial capacity of their children. Therefore, according to the Poselski Club, the proposed amendments to the law on inheritance tax and donations are most desirable and should be adopted by the Sejm. We therefore request that the project be submitted for further work on the Sejm committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u355	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is such a beautiful quote, I think of Maria Slopatkowa: Love - hungry food, pure water thirsty, the sun of a cold man, essential energy of life. This debate is, High Izbo, about dignity, this debate is about love, this debate is about the right to share also temporal goods. The child in foster care, the child in the family home of the child very often - and this is confirmed by Henryka Krzywonos' testimony - becomes a full member of the family. Why, after so many years, we are not able to bring about something as absolutely natural as the equalization of children's rights, including those that become adults, also in terms of [[♪ The bell ♪]] handing over donations and inheritances by people who have cared for them throughout their lives? This is a need for an amendment and I thank the applicants very much for this initiative. I hope she gets the support of the House as a whole. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u358	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! I have the following question: In the opinion of the applicants who have analysed this issue, does the proposed solution close the issue of inheritance tax exemption and donations, or do other categories of foster care remain, which, despite its de facto family co-life, will remain excluded from the exemption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u359	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is extremely important for children's family homes and foster families. Therefore, in my view, this project allows families, people who grew up in one house. I strongly support this bill. It can't be that the people in charge have to pay inheritance tax or donations as outsiders belonging to the third tax group. After all, they grew up in families, and they don't know their biological parents. It is very good that this bill will be examined in committee, and I hope it will be passed. That's what I'd like for the entire High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u361	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u362	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by listening to what Mrs. Henryki Krzywonos-Strycharska has said, and my respect has increased since her speech. [[Applause]] That is why I thank you so much for this project that you presented to us. This is a very pro-social project, very much needed. I think that all foster families will be very pleased about this, especially the pupils of these foster families, so I expect the House to adopt this unanimously. However, I wanted to ask you about one maybe not doubt, but about what you will be building in committees for sure, some additional project: Is it even possible that the upbringing of a care and education institution can also be treated similarly as a foster parent? That's my first question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if such a project were to be specified in a further proposal, how will this affect the revenue of local governments? Is that going to be a significantly higher amount? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u363	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u364	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Can we make this bill? Will we be able to create this bill and show that we have the heart on the right side? Can I go home tomorrow and tell my kids that they can use this bill? Because it's very important, not just for me, but for many, many families. I don't see the fear that many people running such houses or institutions will want to leave their inheritance behind. It's just gonna be, I think, situations like this when someone really wants to do it. After all, you know that not all your children have loved with their whole heart and not all children are treated as their own. Which is why I'm asking you very, very much to agree. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u365	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u366	For me, ladies and gentlemen, your marshal, there should be no doubt. I will have the floor and say as a representative of the applicants, I will answer questions and comments. But I allow myself one brief question to the current finance minister. It's not like you're gonna pay a penny for this. After all, you never and nowhere in this term wanted to talk about the income of local government units. So maybe I don't have a question, but I have an appeal to the Minister to make sure that there are three Sejm sessions left - you do not disturb. I will speak to the subcommittee as rapporteur... [[Three sittings in this term of office?]] I will answer your question. Yeah, we'll have one in June and two sessions in July. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's about time we got to work. That's all I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u367	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The matter is out of the question, of course. The PiS also has the opportunity to show good deed by adopting this law. But I wanted to ask if there's a known scale of the problem, because it's obvious that such situations have taken place. I met myself that it turned out that... It wasn't even about paying the tax, but it was also about debt that the people couldn't get out of. What's the scale of the problem? As in such difficult situations, these cases have been solved so far, e.g. when the charge was not able to pay the tax, or to meet those obligations that the heir left behind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u369	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Filip Świtała to refer to questions and projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u370	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that there really were no questions to the Ministry of Finance, but there was an appeal from Mrs Krystyna Skowronska. I accepted this appeal. I think we'll work together on this project on the committee. I am full of good intentions to help substantively, because there are some minor things that really need to be corrected. I guess that's it for me. If you need any statistical data, we will help and make it available as far as possible. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Mr Krzywonos-Strycharska: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u371	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask the applicant's representative, Ms Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u372	My dear Miss Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We're probably full of good feelings after today's debate. This has shown that we really want this 1983 inheritance tax and donation law, which concerns the non-payment of inheritance tax and donations by individuals included in the first tax group, i.e. parents, children, spouses, preliminary, prospective, stepdaughters... They don't pay. And then, when we presented this project, and there were two projects, the final effect was what we expected, when we presented the project to the Civic Platform Club - that we agreed on this. On the questions of your fellow Members, are there any other groups of people so closely associated with those whom we could include in the first tax group, it seems that the question concerning foster families and children's homes, where carers or carers, whether teachers in children's homes could also benefit from such a solution... We accepted the simplest thing: this biological family bond and this family bond in foster families, where foster care and foster home care are available. This is the criterion we followed when preparing this bill. And certainly about this dispute for the support of the clubs: the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, Kukiz...15 It is normal that Mrs Krzywonos-Strycharska's heart can always be counted on by those in need. My friend Henryko, I would like to thank you very much for this initiative. I hope the declaration from the Law and Justice Club is clear as well. As Gen. Sikorski once said: God looks into our heart and sees that our intentions are pure. It's a little paraphrase. But I'm a little surprised. With what? I'm surprised it's an objective path, as the club representative of Law and Justice said. I wasn't focusing on another environment. Biological children and persons in the first tax group are exempted from this. So why are we talking about this today and creating a problem -- it's rather illusory -- that we have to lean on it for a long time? Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to, but I have to talk about electricity. To this day, the case has not been settled for six months, but it has been about big money, and it is not about such a problem that there is a socially acceptable solution. And let's add that we have almost $2.5,000. The municipalities and this case concerns about 50,000. persons who can benefit from this solution. This will not always be the disposition in every family, it will not always be a donation, it will not always be a tax on inheritance and donations, it will not be a million-dollar loss, as Mr Janczyk said, claiming that this must be considered, because other legal systems have it. We for children, parents, spouses have no tax, so why should we talk about this for a long time? There shouldn't even be a stutter on either side here. This is what they deserve, because they lived in a family together and should be able to benefit from the common acquis on the basis of such a provision of caretakers. I very much urge your Members not to make it so that we refer it to the subcommittee to monitor the tax system. You don't tell us how much we're pulling out of their pockets. There were no VAT regulations for the subcommittee to monitor the tax system when we pulled 8 billion PLN out of Poles' pockets. That's why we're outraged. Each of us, even from the Law and Justice Club, should be outraged that we're trying to stall because that's what it looks like. I understand that it isn't. And I tried to be very calm, but these families are really waiting. And if we didn't see this problem in 2006, now don't make it up to us, because the state on the right side of the room didn't see it, they didn't lean on it like we did today. Don't stall when you played that six months we waited for your project because it doesn't matter. The fact that we're going to vote together, we're going to show everyone in this room that we really care. I'm addressing the Minister. We care very much. Thank you very much, because we sometimes have big discussions in the finance committee for this declaration, because this declaration is not a question of public finances at the level of revenue to the budget. If you asked every mayor or mayor or city president if it made sense, they would say yes. By proceding the previous project, we had also such arguments that one of the locals died a spouse and had to pay tax on what they had done together. And if he were in this group... He paid, he paid, but we have a chance to show that we love our children and all others that we love children in Poland. It's not coming out of our pocket. Give a chance to those who love children in foster homes, to those who love these children and live with them, to give them warmth and love for all these years so that they can share with them and name them to start with what else they have. This isn't gonna be here. Please don't really look for tax gaps, any scams. Let us know that in these people there is a great heart for the benefit of these children as far as possible, because these opportunities are sometimes modest, apart from immense love, to be able to freely dispose of their property, but also to be socially acceptable. Let's show that we have a big heart just like those parents did. Once again, in this Chamber, I would like a big round of applause for Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska. [[Applause]] for initiative, for darling, for showing us what we didn't see at the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u373	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u374	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations. The need for changes in the law on inheritance tax and donations is obvious to me. Currently, Polish law discriminates against children covered by various forms of foster care, treating them as strangers to their parents. It is highly unfair that children who, because of their difficult circumstances, are raised outside their home are even more stigmatized by their relationship with foster families in relation to traditional families. According to the draft law, persons who reside or who reside in a foster family or in a foster home would, like biological children, be exempt from tax in the event of an inheritance or a donation of property or property rights which they would receive from their legal guardians. It should be emphasized that children most often regard their carers as real parents and foster parents as their own. They usually spend many years together, and then, after their parents have grown up, they still maintain close family relationships. In my opinion, the law which, due to blood ties, treats children differently in terms of inheritance and inheritance taxes is highly unethical and should undoubtedly change. I agree with the opinion of the National Tax Advisory Council on this project. The so constructed records, because they do not cover all the recipients of foster care, raise constitutional doubts. In my view, the differing treatment of subjects covered by the various forms of foster care that this project assumes is inappropriate. I therefore agree with the very idea of the amendment, but its records raise my doubts. I believe that the project, after appropriate amendments and clarifications, can better change the Polish inheritance system. The Free and Solidarni Circle is in favour of further work on this project in committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u375	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations contained in print No 3404, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2017 of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service (Print No 2600) together with the position of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs (Print No 2654). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the main, essential information concerning the implementation in 2017 of the Law of 15 December 2016 on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire and the State Protection Service, in the years 2017-2020, although at the beginning it was the Office for Government Protection. I would like to point out that the details were presented and discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. I would also like to point out that we are dealing with data in a kind of historical sense, because this is the first year of the implementation of the 4 year programme from 2017, and we are already in the closed year 2018 and we will probably be able to talk about the effects of this year 2018, and there is an advanced third year of the modernisation programme - 2019. So these figures that have been given in this report, as I said, are already historical, because today they are different because the programme is still being implemented. We still have a little more than a year and a half left of four years, so next year will be the last year of the programme. The programme of modernization of uniform services has been the first in many years such an important and so comprehensive programme for these four MMA formations, which required modernisation, required investment, required the purchase of equipment, as well as increased salaries and salaries. The strategic objective of this programme was to provide the services responsible for security and public order with optimal conditions, such as we have, in line with the capabilities of the state budget and technological solutions, for carrying out statutory tasks. The essence of this programme is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their activities, which translates into an increase in the level of internal security of the country and to ensure better protection for citizens. The programme is based on three pillars. One is the exchange and modernisation of equipment, the other is infrastructure investments, and the third is the increase in the salaries and salaries of civil servants of these services. The modernisation programme enables the modernisation of equipment and equipment, the construction of new and modernization of existing facilities, taking into account the continuation of previous activities, but will also provide an opportunity e.g. the reproduction of police stations wound up in the years 2008 to 2015. A total of over PLN 9200 million was planned under the modernisation programme, including the Police - over PLN 6 billion, for the Border Guard - over PLN 1.2 billion, for the State Fire Department - over 1.7 billion, with a total of 501 million for voluntary firefighters. I would like to stress that for the first time this programme, because this is the second modernisation programme, in the first it was not, and volunteer firefighters were also included with the amount of PLN 501 million for 4 years. For the State Security Service there is almost PLN 207 million. In 2017, almost 1,400 million zlotys were jointly spent on this amount, representing 99.7% A plan for this year. This Decision shall enter - maybe I will say - the amount of PLN 1900 million was spent from the programme, which was 99.3% plan for 2018 In 2019 expenditure will amount to over PLN 3 billion. It will remain in 2020 with the amount of PLN 2900 million. Of course, 2300 million PLN has been allocated to construction investments throughout the programme, for the purchase of business cars and other means of transport - 1100 million PLN, for the purchase of weapons equipment and special technology - 214 million PLN, for the purchase of IT equipment and communications - 1 billion PLN. In order to increase the salaries of officers, PLN 3400 million were allocated and employees' salaries amounted to PLN 738 million. I would like to say a few words about individual projects with selected data for the four departments under the responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and supervised by him, but you will allow the Marshal and allow the High Sejm that I will not be able to recall too many details, because, as I said, they have already changed and attachment to what was in 2017 would be so important that we would burden our memory with something that has already ceased to be valid. But it's worth talking about a few things. Thanks to the modernisation programme, the financial problems of the services that took place earlier ended. There is no longer, for example. such situations as have been quite common in previous years, that at the end of the year there was a shortage of resources for buying fuel or for office supplies. On the other hand, in the previous two years, we received even more than those amounts of the modernisation programme, additional budget support, which had not previously been planned in the budget, i.e. this budget was increased. Together, this provided greater opportunities for the day-to-day operation, coverage of current needs and modernisation of services. It may also be worth noting and adding that the modernisation programme is correlated with actions financed from other sources, such as the Police Support Fund or the Border Guard Support Fund and European funds. If you want to describe all the effects, you need to add them together. And, for example, When it comes to purchasing cars, means of transport for services, in the case of the police, the most important source of funding is the programme to modernise uniformed services. During these four years, we will exchange 1/3 of the transport rolling stock from what the police have at their disposal. Because the police use 21.5,000. Cars. Okay. 7,000. new cars will be purchased and some have already been purchased and a significant part has been transferred to the police. The same is true of the Border Guard. The Border Guard uses a little over 3,000. vehicles, will be made during these 4 years shopping. It is planned to purchase 1032, the most of which, because 740, under the modernisation programme, and the others - with other funds, other funds. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a big leap when it comes to the equipment of the services when it comes to investment. The investment is implemented together - and will be implemented in the following years - several hundred, in the Police itself approx. 290, at the Border Guard about 100. These are major modernization projects. Some of the buildings started earlier are still and finished, and we start new ones. Others will probably have to continue in the following years, because investment processes must be continuous. We cannot plan a certain number of investments and say that we will not build anything anymore, because then we will have a gap after the completion of those investments that are under way. With regard to salary increases, salaries, ladies and gentlemen, this case requires brief information, because a lot of different emotions have grown around it. I would like to remind you that the modernisation programme has planned quite significant amounts of salary increases and salaries, but then, and also earlier, other amounts have been added to this plan to increase the salaries of officers and create competitive salaries for civil servants. I would like to remind you that in 2016 we raised for the first time the salary which has not been raised for years on average by PLN 202 per job, since 1 January 2016. Then there were two increases under the modernisation programme by an average of PLN 253 per job and PLN 309 per job. These amounts have been increased as a result of an agreement with trade unions. The year 2019, i.e. the current year, brought an increase and an annual prize which will be paid after 1 January 2020, and this is the amount of PLN 655 under only one instalment of the increase. If we add this up, even though I do not absolutely want to suggest that this is already the ceiling of expectations and that all needs will be met, we will receive an average of over 1,200 PLN increase per job over all these years, because that's what it will give together with annual prizes. That's a significant amount that wasn't there before. Let me remind you that during the PO-PSL coalition we had one one-off increase in the amount of PLN 300 per job. So the current amount is much higher in 3, 4 years and if these long-term delays did not exist, of course we would have a much easier situation and a much more competitive service, in which there might not have been vacancies if pay had previously been increased. I would also like to draw attention to another aspect related to social expectations. Our predecessors allowed many police stations to be wound up, and it was a mass trial. In total, as we have calculated, 477 police stations were wound up in the years 2008 to 2015. I used to give a smaller number because I only considered the final balance, that's 420 decommissioned outposts from 820, I think, maybe 819. Most of the precincts that existed were eliminated, but during the 8 years of the PO-PSL coalition, there were even cases where the precincts were created and then destroyed. In total, 477 stations were closed in this dynamic movement. In the program of modernization of uniformed services we separated the amount of PLN 100 million. Perhaps this amount will have to be increased, and it will have to be planned after the modernisation programme has been implemented for the reconstruction of police stations. This is related, for example, to the construction of new facilities, because in many places where the stations were closed, the facilities were destined for other purposes and could no longer be used for police stations at the moment, so they need to be built again. There are currently a number of investments in progress, several dozens, but there will probably be further needs. Even if this is the aspect of social expectations that can be met through the modernisation programme. Without these measures, it would be extremely difficult if it were possible at all. I would like to mention, at least in short words, as the time provided for my statement will soon be over, about the State Protection Service, the former Government Protection Office. In this case, too, there is a very important financial provision for this service. In 2017, the smallest of the four MMA services was spent in this service, under the modernisation programme 26 million PLN, in 2018 - 42 million PLN, and in 2019 76 million PLN is planned to be spent. In 2017, PLN 8.5 million was spent on construction investments to finance five tasks, of course the actions that were carried out in 2018 and 2019 continue. As far as transport equipment is concerned, because the issue is of great public interest, in 2017 more than 6 million were spent in the State Protection Service for the purchase of seven cars, including two armored cars, one representative car, two protective passenger cars and two maintenance cars. In 2018 it was already an amount of PLN 3.7 million, in 2019 the amount of PLN 15 million was planned for purchase, among others. two armored representation cars, eight representative protective cars and nine vehicles for the service of the State Security Service. It is planned for 2017 and 2019, and we are still ahead of 2020, the purchase of about 50 units of transport equipment. This equipment was, continues to be, to a large extent, exploited, requires renewal, replacement. The modernisation programme allows for this, of course, to a limited extent, because these are not measures that could be drawn forever, without restrictions, but this progress is very clear. Dear Marshal! I don't have any more time, and then there's probably gonna be questions. On behalf of the management of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, on behalf of the Government, please accept information on implementation [[♪ The bell ♪]] Programme for the modernisation of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service for 2017 I would like to inform you that the 2018 summary is also ready. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u377	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present his position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u378	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is a report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the implementation of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department and State Protection Service programme in 2017-2020, print No 2600 by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent this information to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration on 5 June 2018. The Administrative and Home Affairs Commission, having considered this information at its meeting on 20 June 2018, asks the High Sejm to accept the information from print No 2600. I would like to say that the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, with no votes against, i.e. unanimously, accepted the Minister's information. A much more extensive speech by Minister Jarosław Zieliński, as well as the answers to the questions, took place at the committee meeting. This information in the print is probably about 20 pages long, so everyone can learn about how the service was modernised in 2017. These are indeed historical figures. The planned expenditure in 2017 amounted to 1 389 611 thousand. and was implemented in 99,7% plan, which is a very good result, close to 100% execution. As the Minister said, the police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the then Government Protection Office are already historical information, because in February 2018 the State Protection Service was established, spending the amounts allocated for this purpose. Importantly, it is worth noting that already then construction investments started and 99.9% were made The plan. At that time 297 investment tasks were financed, including 107 construction of new facilities and 190 tasks - adaptation and expansion of existing facilities. This is very important information, because we usually believe that the modernisation of services is equipment purchases, but it is worth noting that two other areas are also extremely important, i.e. investment, and the area that the Minister has already mentioned, which is an increase in wages. In 2017, funds of between 6 and 8% were allocated for the payment of officials... There were increases from 6 to 8% on average, then these increases were, of course, much bigger, more increases, and I will talk about it in the course of speaking on behalf of the club. I would like to draw attention to another very important aspect of the Modernization Act, namely the personal and protective equipment of officers, the purchase of 10 thousand. bulletproof vests, $1,000. impact kits, 180 so-called cameras. The spare ones, the ones for the uniform, $3,000. helmets and many other sets of clothes and e.g. Non-combustible vests for the State Fire Department. It's very important because personal equipment is protecting the health and lives of the officers. It is good that this program, the High Sejm, here thanks to the Ministry, for individual services, does not focus on shopping, does not focus on increases, does not focus on investments, does not focus on personal equipment, but is so versatile. This means that it is a very proportional development - investment in new facilities, adaptation, the purchase of state-of-the-art equipment, but also the personal equipment of officers and of course the incentive system, i.e. the increase. All this causes that any person who objectively looks at the state of the services in Poland must state that the equipment and condition of these services are increasing. Moreover, the opinion of citizens about Polish services, about uniforms is very high, many institutions could envy the opinion that Polish services have. Thank you very much for this information, which was presented at the committee meeting, and of course I recommend that it be adopted, as I said at the outset. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u379	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u380	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In 2014 the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration received a very interesting interpellation, which was written by a member of the opposition Jarosław Zieliński. There was a question about what was going on with the precincts. As a formation of Law and Justice we noticed that in Poland post offices disappear, bus stops disappear, schools disappear massly, but also, to our surprise, police stations disappear. The Ministry's response to this interpellation was absolutely historic. She'll probably go back to the politicians of the Civic Platform and PSL like trauma, like a black dream, because we already know today that in 2014 and 2015... The Minister has now gently corrected this response, but we know that in 2007 and 2015 the number of police stations decreased from 820 to 397, i.e. more than 400 police stations, more than half of the existing police stations were eliminated. Citizens saw it. Both the visible presence of services in the Polish state as well as security decreased. Now what do we got? The symbolic fact that on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence in 2018 we could say that it was rebuilt or perhaps better said: 100 posts were built again. I'm talking about building, because, ladies and gentlemen, this restoration wasn't easy. This was often in a new place, in new architectural conditions, with new and modern equipment, the establishment of posts in districts, where sometimes in eight, nine communities out of 10 all police stations disappeared. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the police are concerned, there have also been very spectacular events. The police have never had new helicopters before. She never had new helicopters in her history. They were always helicopters used by other services, by the military, and handed over to the police as unnecessary. Now three new black hawks have appeared, but another tender has also been settled on Bell's helicopters. So it's a complete quality jump. Of course, there is personal equipment and a fourfold increase. There will be, as we know, a fifth, but now four times the raise, which means four times the salary was raised. And as for the fire department, we have an absolutely spectacular event again. For the first time in history, the voluntary fire department receives serious money, PLN 0.5 billion in the state service modernisation programme. Ladies and gentlemen, this is 380 cars, a record last year. This year's record's gonna be broken, it's gonna be 480 cars. This is an absolute qualitative change. As far as the fire department is concerned, thanks to this programme in Europe, we are at the top of the list. There were also increases for fire workers, on average by PLN 1150 gross per job compared to an average of PLN 300 per job during the eight years of government of the Civic Platform - PSL. This is a gigantic leap when it comes to salary increases. Of course, there's still a new protective uniform. I want to tell you that this is very important to the fire department. 56 million PLN in this program. It's already 8,000. firefighters received a new protective uniform that protects the firefighter's life and health, and I will remind you that during the reign of the Civic Platform and PSL time was wasted and 10 million PLN was spent only on design, on inventing what a new uniform was to be, which was not finally done. Now we have a new protective uniform in place for the firefighters. Border Guard. New thermal vehicles. Restoration of the Carpathian Border Guard Division, ladies and gentlemen, decommissioned at the time of the PO-PSL. In addition, long-armed equipment: 122 machine guns, 2063 self-repeating guns, new aircraft and four new vessels for the Marine Border Guard. These are, ladies and gentlemen, new things. Nowa Pasłęka - there is also a new seat on Zalew Wiślany, symbolic, built from the very beginning of the Border Guard at the border with the Kaliningrad circuit. I don't have any more time. I'd like to mention such an interesting thing. With regard to this State Protection Service modernisation programme, it is the state-of-the-art - no one will have one in Europe - a virtual shooting range, where several cars State Security, but also the police, Border Guard, can enter and train [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your skills. She'll serve all the services. The most modern in Europe, one of the most modern in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Law and Justice takes care of the security of Poles and all statistics in Europe confirm this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u381	Thank you very much, sir. I wanted to announce that the vote would be at noon. 6:30. Now, please, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to remind you that the Civic Platform Club, in the vote, of course, supported the law creating the "Program for the modernisation of uniformed services" for the years 2017-2020. I would also like to remind you that the previous modernisation programme, prepared by the sleeper. Minister Stasiak, was implemented by the Civic Platform. Just as the end of the standardization programme prepared by Minister Sienkiewicz was already implemented by the PiS. Of course, we are happy with all the measures that affect the modernisation of Polish uniform services. As the Minister rightly pointed out, these are the funds from the programme, that is, budget resources, but these are also the resources of local governments, these are funds from the European Union, from the Environment Fund. All activities that are aimed at modernising Polish uniform services will always meet with the approval of my club. And I also declare that if the Civic Platform wins the elections in the autumn, it will continue. On the other hand, I would like to point out that today's discussion is already, to be honest, a little pointless because we are referring to the situation from 1.5 years ago. This is information on the implementation of the uniformed service programme in 2017. This is not an accusation against the Minister. I'm sure the Minister would rather talk about the information for 2018. On the other hand, something stuck in this Sejm, since there was a situation in which this document was lying in a drawer for months and it is unknown why, because I will remind you, the committee's position dates back to the year - June 2018. You can say half joke, half serious, that it is probably the logic of pushing: the committee has already received, Minister, information about the implementation of the programme in 2018 and perhaps the document simply pushed out the previous one. It's half a joke, half a joke. On the other hand, seriously, I would like to take advantage of the fact that you are President Czartoryski, and express my hope that we will meet in June or July and discuss the implementation of the 2018 modernisation programme. I'd like it to be linked to a discussion of the NIK report. The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the modernisation programme should be published in June, and it would be good if we could hold the next debate with not only a government document but also information from this report. To conclude, I'd like to mention the police stations. Mr President and the Minister have also spoken of this. Since Mr Czartoryski is talking about interpellations, I would just like to remind you that I have waited over a year for Minister Zieliński to respond to my interpellation. I have waited over a year for an answer on the response time in these municipalities, in those places where police stations were wounded. The Minister replied after a year, but that was not the answer either. Minister, there are no analyses, or at least you are not able to present them, which show the purpose of reconstructing many of these posts, which you are now replaying with a huge financial effort. Moreover, this often means not only spending money, but also the organizational effort of police units, which must direct officers to those stations who could normally power patrol cells. Therefore, Minister, I would ask you to lean on this and commit the police to prepare a thorough analysis of the state of safety and the response time in those locations where the stations were wound up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u383	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll try to be brief, because in fact, everyone here has given a lot of details. The committee was also very consistent and all clubs unanimously supported the report. We are debating a report on the implementation of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in 2017-2020. This program is incredibly needed. I think there is no doubt in this room or in Poland at all that we have huge shortcomings in terms of infrastructure, accessibility, the authorisation of our uniformed services, which are essential for the security of our borders and the internal security of our country and its citizens. Therefore, any programme that devotes significant additional resources to changes in this structure is a very necessary programme, because we have lost that time somewhere. I think that in the whole of the Third Republic of Poland a lot of time has escaped in this sphere. It is no wonder that police officers, border guards or State Security Services pay attention to certain issues and express their dissatisfaction. They work in difficult, dangerous conditions, and they need this equipment. Very many of the objectives of this programme have indeed been achieved in 2017. The spending of more than 90% There is some respect for this amount. The whole report has been written on over 50 pages and is quite detailed. The balance is actually positive there. It could probably be discussed for a long time, but it would require detailed analysis of the extent to which certain expenditures are more or less appropriate. However, there were no comments from the representatives of those services we are talking about here, so I understand that they accept the directions for spending these funds. I think that with full awareness and unanimity as a club we will support the adoption of this report. I would just like us to see that we do not have to run special programmes at all in order to catch up and equip these services, but it will be provided within their budgets and will be a natural element of their operation, which runs automatically. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u385	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u386	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! At its meeting of 20 June 2018, the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission adopted a report relating to print No 2600, which contains information from the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2017 of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire and State Security Programme for 2017-2020. It has been almost a year, and Members could actually display both the positives and the shortcomings of the way the programme is implemented in a telegraph brief. In fact, we're already debating history today. You might ask if it's serious. The government-promised modernisation programme, which was waiting for the services responsible for the security of our country, was intended to create optimal conditions for carrying out their statutory tasks. Although the programme has greatly improved the situation of the services, it has not solved all their problems. First of all, I would like to focus on the issue of transferring expenditure from the Ministry of National Defence to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration for tasks carried out within the framework of the programme in the field of transport equipment, weapons and special technology, as well as IT and communication. The information does not refer, in addition to tabular data, to the real needs and substance of the need to transfer the funds in question from part of the MON budget to the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. When assessing changes in the allocation of amounts set out in the Annexes to the Act, a large number of changes made in 2017. At this point, the question arises as to how rationally and in accordance with current and real needs the public funds were managed by the chiefs concerned in view of not authorising them to carry out transfers under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. The 4th Public Finance Act. Very enigmatic and timely reference was made in the information to the ongoing execution of construction works for 38 tasks, e.g. by specifying them. as construction, reconstruction. One of the priorities I would like to lean on in a special way is the State Fire Department. Without fire protection, both professional and voluntary, no state can feel safe and therefore function effectively. At first glance, you can see that the development of multi-discipline design documentation for tasks is exposed: construction, modernization. In the field of equipment, weapons and special technology, a number of elements are listed - undoubtedly relevant for the operation of CSR units - but without a specific location of their destination. The same applies to the personal and protective equipment of the State Fire Service officers and grants to voluntary firefighters. There have been cases where one was given everything to deprive others of everything. The situation with regard to improving the competitiveness of civil servants' salaries is unclear and unclear. Surprisingly, the failure of the salary increase plan must be 100%. High Seym! Members of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats accept information with understanding, recognizing positives and negatives. Members of the club will take the final decision in the course of the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u387	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u388	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the implementation information in 2017 - Police modernisation programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Security Service in the years 2017-2020. High Izbo! To begin with, I would like to remind you that the programme itself was adopted on 15 December 2016 in agreement with all parliamentary clubs. This is important because we have expressed in this way that we see the need to finance all these services and the systematic approach to the organisation of their work, equipment and salaries. I think this is the moment when each of us, anyone who voted in favour of this project, can congratulate ourselves, because this decision taken together probably or even positively affected the various services. Of course, information about the degree of implementation and all the information that has been provided in the report is so useless that it concerns 2017. In fact, this should be considered in 2018, and the report was submitted to the High House in 2018, and nothing prevented it. We could certainly say more after the 2018 report, which should also be considered. Nevertheless, there is one thing I would like to say about wages. The Minister was kind to mention that this average is high, etc. Minister, if you received a raise of PLN 2,300 and I received PLN 100, we received PLN 2,400 in total. On average it is 1,200 PLN, but I received only 100 PLN. This generally does not say anything about what the actual increases were, how much were received by specific officers in specific positions. Even less so, it tells us how much civilian workers have been given in the service. As far as civilian workers are concerned, I think we can all agree here that even under this law and the modernisation programme, these increases are not satisfactory. Perhaps it should even be said that they barely cover normal increases or increases resulting from the Law and Justice decisions, i.e. increases in taxes, introduction of new charges, new taxes - generating a strong boost just to increase the cost of living. This is one issue, but I wanted to draw attention to a completely different issue. It is a good thing that these various technical measures are purchased and are placed on the equipment of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire and SOP, while I have a question about how They're being used. Are they really serving the citizens, or are they designed to create, colloquially speaking, good working conditions for ministers? The first example on the shore is the use of a helicopter. We see Minister Brudziński flying that chopper. Isn't that helicopter supposed to be serving somewhere else at the same time where it's needed? The question is, do we buy helicopters from these means so that the Minister can have comfortable travel conditions, or do we buy them for police purposes, for other services, and that is how they should be used. Next thing you know, you're gonna break in the police at about an hour. 7:00 a.m. to one of the citizens' apartments for religious reasons. Should the police use the funds they have purchased to make sure that their troops are within the hour. 7 a.m. haunted citizens for such reasons? These are certainly not good ideas. The next thing I want to say is to locate the places where the movie is displayed, just don't tell anyone. Minister, this is absurd. We spend billions of dollars on equipment, technology, new equipment for the police, and you use it exclusively for your political purposes. It's unacceptable, isn't it? It is not for each of us to raise our hand and vote in favour of this law, in favour of this programme, so that, through your political decisions, you do not direct these technical measures where they are really needed to ensure the safety of the citizens so that they serve only you, so that you can achieve your goals, vile political goals. Definitely not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as the implementation of the programme is concerned, of course, we must say that we are assessing it positively, but the use of these resources really needs to be worked out, because this is scandalous. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u389	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask if, thanks to the implementation of the modernisation programme, the average age of transport equipment used by the services of the Ministry of Interior and Administration fell. I would also ask for information as to whether, due to the increase in funds for technical modernisation, the average age of tyres used in police vehicles has been reduced. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u391	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that Minister Zieliński is in the Chamber, who directly supervises police work. I would like to ask the Minister why, and on what legal basis, police officers were ordered to report about the screenings of the film by Tomasz Sekielski, just don't tell anyone. I would like to quote the order that went to the Pomeranian police officers, and I would like to say that this applies to reproductions both in public places and in clubs, restaurants, etc. Minister, this is an appalling case that resembles the activities of the Security Service during the communist party. Minister, we demand an explanation of why such actions are being taken, on what legal basis, for what reason. Minister, isn't it really a waste of time for officers who should be taking care of our security rather than these kind of intimidation attempts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u393	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u394	Dear Marshal! Minister! The fact that this modernisation programme has contributed to improving conditions for all services is not subject to any discussion. Therefore, the question arises as to whether this 4-year programme is exhausting all the needs of these services, or whether we should think about making another such programme for the following years. A specific question about officers' personal cameras. I know they were tested in several garrisons. Is it common enough, or do only a few garrisons have such cameras so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u395	Thank you, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the modernisation programme, the increase in wages for civil servants and workers concerns 609 million, i.e. 43%. The increase in salaries has basically nothing to do with modernization, as these measures are more, and it is much more than funds for the purchase of equipment, renovations and investments. I would prefer that such measures are simply included in the budget law. Then it would be clear, because the widely understood public administration does not have such modernisation programmes and therefore there is no increase in salaries. Of course, I am not questioning these increases, because I believe that they were absolutely legitimate. One more piece of information. Minister, despite such a great programme, the Minister of Finance practically every year to supplement, to increase the benefits to the police, reaches to the leftovers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which stays in the capital fund. 10, 12 million, really. It doesn't seem right, even as we have a legal error in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u397	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u398	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all uniformed officers for their daily work. I have a question for Minister Zieliński. Well, on November 30, 2018 on the police website I read such a message, an enthusiastic message. This message was: The versatile and durable S-70i Black Hawk are adapted to perform various tasks. They will be designed for police anti-terrorist units that need equipment for rapid landing and smooth movement across the country, as well as missing persons. Minister! I'd like to know if Joachim Brudziński is an anti-terrorist. Did you hand over this black hawk from West Pomerania to the Minister's exclusive disposal? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Key question: How much did this flight to Choszczna cost us?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u399	Thank you very much. And last question, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u400	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to extend Mr Wójcik's question, because the information that the Police Commissioner in Gdansk has received such an order is indeed appalling. The question is: Did other voivodship commands also get a command to monitor where the video is being broadcast, just don't tell anyone? I'm wondering. The police, I thought, should be involved in the pursuit of pedophiles, and it follows that you are pursuing those who inform the public. I just completely don't understand how you can act this way to collect information about where this video is being displayed. Explain to the public who came up with such a brilliant idea and what extent that order had. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u401	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I would like to refer to the club speech and then to the questions by Mr Mark Wójcik from the Civic Platform. The Member said that his formation, the Civic Platform, voted in favour of the programme to modernise uniformed services... You're an MP, that's good. I thought you left. I'm glad. ...and then realized the first programme after 2007. Let me remind you, this was a programme of the Government of Law and Justice adopted on 12 January 2007. Then you really did it. You realized it with various consequences and unfortunately did not complete all the assumptions of this program, and you broke up, I apologize for colloquialism, a certain amount, almost 500 million PLN, as part of the fact that you could not decide whether you had a green island or a crisis. Just as part of these budget transfers, you have pulled 474 million zlotys out of this programme. Let me remind you, the program was then calculated at the amount of PLN 6301 million. That's one thing. Secondly, he said that now if you won the election - which I do not wish Poland - you would also continue this program. We have appealed to you during the eight years of your governments to create another edition of this program after the end of our programme. And even us As a law and justice club, then as an opposition club, we prepared a program like this because you guys didn't smoke for it, took your time, dragged around, delayed, didn't make it. But this program - I remember perfectly, because he was under my direction prepared at the club - he did not even see the introduction to the session of the Sejm. There has been a discount on projects submitted in the previous term, one term has ended, the second term has begun. In the second one, we didn't put this project together anymore, knowing you were gonna throw it away anyway. That was your attitude towards modernising uniformed services, sir, that was your approach. You didn't know how to do what we prepared in the first edition of this program. And as for the continuation, you had to wait another years for us to return to power. This programme, as we have announced before the elections, has been prepared very quickly and we are now implementing it for the third year, with good results, with good results in the various fields I have been talking about. That's one thing. Secondly, I am surprised that you, Mr President, have not yet understood the nature of the operation of police stations, that you are still questioning in what you have said the sense of re-entry of police stations. Maybe I'll just bring up two aspects. Firstly - and this also applies to other people who have been asking about the police in the framework of such political problems - I would remind you that social studies show that the police have great social recognition and great trust, the greatest since 1990, since it was created under the law introduced at that time, 75% , the highest support and social trust of all this time. So your attacks on the police or your attacks on us, ruling and supervising the police, they don't work, they won't have any political effect on you. You have to understand, this is the wrong way. The Poles want security, they want security, they want the police close, they want the police close to the people and for the people. They want the police not only in big cities - and you wanted to create such a situation, and unfortunately you managed to do so in part - they want to eliminate these more than 400 police stations - but they want the police close, also in small towns and towns. In 2016, we held a consultation, a number of consultations, 12,000 of which were attended by a lot of interested citizens, and several hundred thousand spoke on this subject. The first postulate, which was clearly emerging and dominating at these meetings, was the playback of the stations. And we carry out this postulate. 102 precincts have already been re-created from those 420 that you've eliminated, and 477 in general, I'll remind you, as part of this movement within 8 years, and we'll be re-replaying the next precincts. You were talking in the discussion when we defended the law and justice of the precincts before the liquidation, that it didn't make security any worse. It makes it worse and safer, and a sense of security. And now, with regard to statistics, you demand statistics. Mr President, who was to record these crimes and crimes when you took the police to large cities, she was not in many places, in these 420 places she was missing? If anybody was crossing the law, it wasn't necessarily registered by the police. Citizens had to live with it. Finally, understand that security is the proximity of the police and their rapid response. Now the other issues that you Members have been asking about, Members in principle. With regard to the question of Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, whether this programme we are implementing now, the second programme of modernization of uniform services, is exhausting all the needs of the services - of course not. I agree at all with this statement, which I think Mr Wilczyński later recalled in his statement, that it would be good, in fact, that we would not have to implement special programmes, but that the resources, annual expenditures on police and other uniformed services, which are responsible for security and are supposed to guarantee them to citizens, would be sufficient and there would be no need to create special programmes. Yeah, that's what we'd like to do. This program, like the first one, does a lot of work. Not everything, but when it comes to increases in salaries and salaries, the purchase of equipment and investments, you can see that everything is actually lifted up, goes up. We had, ladies and gentlemen, an example last year, a year ago, when Polish firefighters went to Sweden to put out huge forest fires. It's very symbolic. The Swedes and the whole European opinion not only respected the skills, the professionalism of Polish firefighters, but also the Swedes and other observers noticed that the Poles had equipment no worse than the fire department of the countries of western Europe. This is the effect that we have the state-of-the-art equipment, we buy this equipment. Civilization produces better and better tools. They're expensive, so you have to buy them, keeping up with everything that's called progress in civilization and technology. We have, I will tell Mr Wilczyński, an idea that has probably been publicly presented several times, although there may have been only information about him, without developing this thread, but he appeared during negotiations with the trade unions of uniformed services, even it was written there in the form of a point that, after the implementation of this programme and its conclusion, we would like to prepare another third edition of this programme, which will be called the development programme of uniform services. It's not a modernization program anymore, it's a development program. Mr. Speaker! Of course, we want to continue to invest, perhaps even more, in human capital. Your question is very relevant: Do increases mean modernisation? This may be asked, but since the salaries and salaries were not raised and the money was missing, we thought it was the only way to raise these salaries and salaries. And if there wasn't this program, there wouldn't be much of this increase, because a significant part of it comes from this program. Back to the question: Is this modernization? [[The budget bill...]] Investment in human capital is also a kind of modernisation. It's not like buying black hawks or cars... [[It's not, it's not.]] ...but it is creating the conditions for the best officers, the best staff to work in the Polish security services and to be motivated to do so. [[Yeah, let's take that.]] And that's how we want to look at it in the future. As for the cameras, because Mr Piechowiak asked, we bought 180 spare cameras in the pilot, which worked very well. The pilot showed that it was good to equip police officers with them, so there were further purchases. In 2018 we bought 2200 spare cameras, and in 2019 we are going to buy 2050 such cameras. Together, it'll give us almost $4.5,000. Spare cameras, and that's a big number. And I can only tell the Member that the cameras are already used in all garrisons of the Polish police today. Not just one place or three garrisons where there was piloting. Now in all garrisons, the cameras are used and they work. They increase transparency and make it easier to assess the correctness of police operations. This can also stimulate citizens' behaviour, which is of procedural importance, because it can be recreated, what the intervention really looked like, what the circumstances were. Regarding the question of Mr Piotr Pyzik, how much equipment we bought and for example. As long as the age of the cars is down, we'll have to figure it out. Of course, the oldest ones are withdrawn. After shopping for all the cars I talked about, it will be possible to sum it up, but it is also possible today. It's the only data I can't remember right now. We can present them to you in writing, of course, after checking. As for the Social Fund, Mr Szczerba said that we use it, among other things. for the purpose of supplying the police. If different reserves are not used at the end of the year, then of course, an analysis is carried out by the Minister of Finance and by the President of the Council of Ministers. It may have happened that some of these funds were also sent to our services, but only because this fund was not used. Nobody cut that fund to take the state and give it to the police. This was not the case, but he could not have been fully exploited, as I recall. When it comes to political upheavals, especially about film screening and police action on this issue, I do not want to enter into this because I would be provoked by you, because we are not talking about it today, but we are assessing the first year of the programme of modernization of the MMSiA uniform services. As far as the film is concerned, all I want to say is that I am sending you to the spokesperson of the chief police officer. He's already explained what's going on. Don't warm your emotions, because there's no need. I can tell from myself that there's an art. 63a of the Code of Misdemeanors and if there are conditions that force the police to respond to the violation of the law, then the police must not do so, because then you would judge it negatively, that this is exactly what happened, and the police did not react. You can do it. 63a of the Code of Misdemeanors to analyze well. This is just one aspect of the case. The second aspect I am now adding, because it is not in the communication of the Chief Chief of Police. However, in the communication there is a very simple answer, that it is about ensuring security, both for those who accumulate during the screening of this film, and for those who can contest it, because this film arouses emotions. The whole thing was done by part of the media and the opposition showed that it arouses emotions. Yeah, she might wake up, but I think it's smaller. Nobody here is going to go after anybody, ladies and gentlemen, for seeing or watching a movie, but they have to meet the legal conditions, and the police have to keep everyone safe. On the other hand, if there is a request from the owner or administrator of the facility, the police must respond. Without permission, no one can display a film on objects that do not belong to it, and art. 63a's talking about it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not gonna be provoked here by these emotions being conquered. Why? And other places, such as the Internet, movies or television, are designed to display the film. There's a lot of other ways to get to know the movie, isn't there? And if someone wants to display a movie on the wall of someone's object, get permission from the owner or administrator, then it'll be okay. If he does not obtain this consent, then he violates the law, the Code of Offences. That's it. But, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that these political aspects which are cited here, and the emotions which you are unnecessarily conquering and strengthening, will not obscure the essence of today's point of discussion of the Sejm, the results of a good programme of modernization of the police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Service, voluntary fire and the State Security Service, because this is an investment in the security of citizens. We've been saying this for a long time, and I'm going to say it again today from this podium, that we shouldn't save money on safety, because then, if something bad happens, it costs even more. Security, which you question with such actions, which the opposition often causes, with these opinions, with these emotions, is a value needed for everyone: not only on the right side of the political scene, but also on the left, central and all citizens. The police and other services are apolitical, provide security for all citizens and need to be modernised, have to receive modern equipment and equipment and decent equipment so that they can ensure this safety at the highest level. And you can see from the social evaluations, from the opinion of the public, that Poles appreciate it, see it, and I can only express joy for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u403	Thank you, Minister. In the mode of correcting Mr Marek Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u404	Minister! Art. 63a The Code of Offences, which you refer to in the case of police actions concerning the screening of Mr.Sekielski's film, concerns public places, while the order of the Pomeranian Police is applicable, and I quote: both public places and clubs, restaurants, etc. [[And the restaurant isn't a public place?]] Well, Minister, this is pure surveillance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u405	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to this information, the Minister of State Protection has received funds of a total amount of 43,938 thousand. zł, of which 3689 thousand. PLN was earmarked for the purchase of means of transport. A total of 10 vehicles of different types were purchased, indicating that the average price purchased by the SOP of the vehicle is up to 368 thousand. zł. What kind of vehicles was purchased by WW. service in the year covered by this document? Are all purchased vehicles currently in constant operation? An important aspect of this issue is also the question of the insurance mentioned above. vehicles. Are the cars of the State Protection Service purchased under the above mentioned above. Do the funds have autocasco policies bought out? If not, what is the cause of such a situation? What is the total amount of expenditure from the budget allocated to the repair of SOP cars due to road collisions?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u407	The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs requests the adoption of information on implementation in 2017 of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the State Protection Service in the years 2017-2020. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 33 hrs. 18 min 41]] I'm reopening the session. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland and on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, print No 3467. As a result of obtaining a uniform opinion from the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Postal Law Act, - amending the Police Act and certain other laws, - amending the Polish Charter Act, - amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws, And also: - to amend the Labour Code Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed as follows: 3432, 3453, 3442, 3431 and 3430. Therefore, I have decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Wedding the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. The Sejm, with the consent of the Senate, appointed Mr Jan Nowak as President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. According to Art. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the protection of personal data before taking up its duties, the President of the Office shall take the oath before the Sejm. I state that the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, Mr Jan Nowak, has volunteered to take a vow. I ask the President of the Personal Data Protection Office of Mr Jan Nowak to take the oath and, ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u408	By taking the position of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, I solemnly pledge to remain faithful to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, to safeguard the right to the protection of personal data, and to fulfil my duties conscientiously and impartially. So help me God! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u409	Thank you very much. I state that the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, Mr Jan Nowak, has taken a vow before the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies undertaken against Getin Noble Bank SA and Idea Bank SA in 2016 and 2018, notified by the Parliamentary Club Civil Platform - Coalition, - Information on the detention by the Central Bureau of Investigation of the former spokesperson of the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej M., former Member of the Party of Law and Justice of Mariusz K. and four other persons referring to influences in MON, submitted by the Modern Poselski Club, - Information from the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on the activities undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the bodies under and supervised by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, including the Chief Veterinary Officer, on the illegal slaughter of bovine animals and the placing on the market of unfit meat, notified by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition, - Information from the Minister of Justice of the Attorney General on omissions in the ongoing proceedings concerning the counterfeiting of signatures under the nominations of the All-Polish Youth for the local elections in 2014 led by Adam Andruszkiewicz at the time, submitted by the Modern Posel Club, And also: - Information from the Minister of Justice of the Prosecutor General on the ongoing investigation into the participation of the current Secretary of State in the Ministry of Digitisation of Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz in the forgery of signatures on the electoral lists of all-Polish Youth candidates in the local elections in 2014, as well as the reasons for unjustified delay in the conduct of the proceedings, as reported by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We are voting on the request to supplement the agenda with a point on the draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation on Getin Noble Bank and Idea Bank. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 185, against - 221, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request to supplement the agenda with a point on information on the detention by the Central Bureau of Investigation of persons referring to influences in the Ministry of National Defence. Who of you is in favour of the proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For -190, against - 229, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal to supplement the agenda with a point on information on the illegal slaughter of bovine animals. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. Za - 186, against - 230, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request to supplement the agenda with a point: Information from the Minister of Justice of the Prosecutor General on omissions in the ongoing proceedings concerning the counterfeiting of signatures under the nominations of the All-Polish Youth on electoral lists. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 187, against - 233, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request to complete the agenda for the item: Information on the investigation into the participation of the current secretary in the Ministry of Digitisation of Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz in the forgery of signatures on electoral lists. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[What are you afraid of, what are you afraid of? Do not be afraid.]] 421 Members voted. For - 187, against - 234, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland and on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of the Republic of Poland (prints No 3465 and 3467). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Members, don't speak up, don't disturb me. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Raven. Are you an MP? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the 40th anniversary of John Paul II's first pilgrimage to Poland and on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate from print No 3465. The Committee on Culture and Media, following its first reading today and considering this project, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution as follows: [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland and on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and partially free elections to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. "Let your Spirit descend and restore the face of the earth. This Earth!' - called Pope John Paul II 40 years ago, June 2, 1979, during his first Holy Mass celebrated on Polish soil, on pl. Winnings in Warsaw. These words fell deep into the collective memory of Poles, becoming a signal for extraordinary changes. Awakened as a Nation by John Paul II, we have found the strength to build the sphere of freedom in the sacrificial activity of the democratic opposition and in the great 'Solidarity' movement against violence and lies. Towards independence, greeting the Pope during his subsequent pilgrimages, Poles cried out: 'There is no freedom without Solidarity'. Implementation of this password became possible when the foundations of the communist system began to crumble in Poland and other countries of Eastern Europe, and finally in the Soviet Union. 30 years ago, on June 4, 1989, Poles were able for the first time, although still in a more plebiscite form than in a real democratic form, to confirm their independence aspirations in an election act. The 'Solidarity' camp at that time won a spectacular victory in the free elections to the Senate, and in the contractual elections to the Sejm he won all the mandates for genuine competition. The defeat of the Communists in the elections on 4 June 1989 opened the way to building democracy and restoring Poland's sovereignty, and then, in the autumn of 1989, to democratic changes in the countries of the Soviet sphere of influence. On the anniversary of the elections, the Sejm and the Senate commemorate events that led to Poles' dreams of freedom and independence. The resolution shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland 'Monitor Poland'. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u411	Thank you, Member. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. Then I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of adopting the draft print resolution 3467 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 412, against - no one, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland and on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and partly free elections to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Code of Civil Procedure Act. This committee report is print 3394-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present this report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report from the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Civil Procedure Code Act. The Extraordinary Commission, after today's meeting, recommends that the High House adopt the amendment tabled at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u413	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's print number 3394. We will vote on the amendments first. In the amendment to the article. 99 The Family and Care Code of the applicant proposes that, in the case referred to in that provision, the court or public body before which the child is represented should rule. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. In - 419, no one against, one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3394 along with the amendment adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Code of Civil Procedure Act. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Patient Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patient Rights. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3397-A. Third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Czech to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Patient Rights Act and the Patient Rights Ombudsman, print No 3176. At its meeting on 15 May in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Sejm again referred the draft law to the Health Committee for consideration of the amendment tabled at second reading. The Health Committee, following its consideration at its meeting on 16 May, asks that the amendment on the deletion of the Article be deleted. 2 reported by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition reject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u415	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you, it's print number 3397. The amendments that have been tabled in the additional report will be voted first. In the amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 2 draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Fantastic that this bill finally carried out that the parent for lying on his own karimat under the bed would not have to pay. But an amendment was added to this law from a pear or parsley to the AOS record. Maybe I can explain to all of you what they're voting for, that the AOSs are specialized clinics for a visit that many patients are waiting for, probably from your families as well. This applies to patients who, e.g. After surgery, when they leave the hospital, they have nowhere to go. The record that has been introduced will not allow the opening of new AOSs where they are not, this annexation will be extremely unfavorable. Law and Justice promised that the annexation would no longer be announced. There are also white spots, so that in some regions there are no certain specialist and sick clinics at all [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's coming miles. Please support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u417	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 188, against - 229, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. To the whole question is asked by Mr Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u418	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the committee meeting, you came with a government project that talked about charging for parents staying with children, and it was thanks to the opposition that you changed the record of your stay free of charge. But in order for it not to be so pink, you have just incorporated an article into the bill. 2 about moving competitions to specialized clinics by 2 years. Although our amendment has been rejected, we will vote in favour of this law, especially since the Ministry of Health has ensured that there will be a benefit in the NFZ that can cover the stay of the parents. So the bill is beneficial for the child, for the parent, but also for hospitals. And since the student, ladies and gentlemen, has grown over the master, and it doesn't take four years to develop the criteria for specialized counseling competitions, but the next two years, I don't know who to go to and congratulate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u419	Thank you. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3397 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 408, no one has stopped 14. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsman's Rights. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act. Third reading. The Commission proposes that the draft be adopted in print No 3371. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the draft Print Act 3371, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For -412, no one has stopped 5. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee on the Government's draft Act on the Production and Trading of Explosives, Arms, Ammunition and Military or Police Purpose Products and Technology. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3429-A. Third reading. I would like to ask Anna Maria Siakowska to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs an additional report on the Government's draft law on the performance of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. On 15 May, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3429 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to examine the proposal submitted and the amendments tabled at second reading. One motion to reject the bill was submitted - it was submitted by the Modern Club - and six amendments. Three amendments were tabled by the Kukiz club15, two amendments were tabled by the PO-KO club and one amendment was tabled by the Modern Club. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 15 May, asks the High Sejm to adopt the law and reject the proposed proposal and the amendments tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u421	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you, it's print number 3429. We will vote first on the proposal to reject the bill and, if it is rejected, we will vote on the proposals of minorities and amendments. The Commission, I remind you, requests that this proposal be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u422	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question about this law. It implements the provisions of the ill-translated directive. Is it true, Minister, that these European laws have only implemented five European countries, and it is those countries that do not have a defence industry, while the other countries that have a defence industry that do not implement this directive, because there are problems with interpretation, among others. for language reasons? Is it true that the Czech Republic has complained about this directive as regards its compatibility with European law? Is it true that Poland joined this complaint? We are in a situation in which there is a law in the Sejm which we have contested, which is essentially not implemented by other European countries, whereas the government is implementing this badly translated document and it is known in advance, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think we're gonna have to sort this out somehow. So this bill would have to be rejected, however, as I encourage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u423	Thank you, sir. Would Minister Paweł Majewski like to answer these questions? Please, Deputy Minister of Interior and Administration Paweł Majewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law on which we are proceeding is implementing the provisions of the Directive, which are not yet implemented in all countries of the European Union, which does not mean that Poland is not obliged to implement them. The process of working on this law was quite long, there were consultations. Before the bill went to Parliament, she was consulted with the social side, with Members in Parliament. We believe that it is quite strongly discussed with all parties, and we therefore believe that this right should be implemented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u425	Thank you very much. [[He doesn't know what's going on yet?]] We are voting on the motion for rejection. Who of you is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law in print No 3429, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 47, against - 245, stopped 126. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 applicants propose to add point 9a. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Jóźwiak, the Kukiz Club15. [[Joswiek.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! This is a very substantive amendment, which really has one purpose: to clarify certain concepts, because the whole law uses the concept of an essential part of the weapon, which is part of it. arms together with the entire unit of arms taken into account, which is relevant for the marking under this EU Directive. On the other hand, we believe that because we also use essential parts of weapons that are produced separately and distributed and sold, placed on the market separately, we need to introduce a separate definition of the so-called. a separate piece of weapons, which will not cause these two concepts to be confused. This eliminates the possibility of overinterpretation, which may be to the detriment of entrepreneurs. So that I ask you to accept this amendment, because I do not know if there is anything in the way to clarify these terms and entries in the Act, so that they are clear and clear. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u427	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u428	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask if it is true that this project was so well discussed that the Ministry of National Defence did not know that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration wants a weapon registration system to cover every unit of weapons that was manufactured for the Polish Army and other special services, which would mean that information about every weapon that was manufactured for the military would be very easily accessible to foreign services. This is a letter that confirms that the Ministry of National Defence knew nothing about the fact that the Ministry of National Defence wanted to make available information about the weapon that was intended for the military in such a simple way. Is it okay, or is it normal? Minister, if information about weapons intended for special forces, for the Polish Army should be so easily accessible to others, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those who shouldn't have access to that information? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u429	Thank you. Would Minister Majewski like to respond? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Suchoń is misleading the High House. The Ministry of National Defence took part in the consultation process, in the government process. He was aware of what this bill was like, which is why these words are not true. I would also like to say that it is a great manipulation of information that foreign special forces would have access to information about weapons, which is intended for the Polish Army. Mr President, arms invitations are widely available, publicly announced, so please do not mislead the High House and the public. The Weapons Registration System is a system that will not be publicly available, nor will it be accessible to foreign services, as you have been gracious to say. This is a system that will be used by authorized persons. The entry into this system will be recorded. Please don't manipulate the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u431	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 187, against - 227, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to points 12 and 13. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15. [[Jozwiak, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! This is another amendment that tries to correct the errors that are included in this bill. In theory, according to the directive, this law is intended to seal the arms production and trafficking system in order to eliminate certain dangers associated with the development of terrorism or the trafficking of illegal weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we are introducing, detailing, sealing in Poland a certain system of production of weapons, trafficking in weapons, but we do not enter what is written in all other countries, i.e. the so-called. technology of military destiny. In Poland it will not be possible to produce a specific weapon or its essential element without a licence, but it will be possible to buy a production line and have a production line for a specific weapon. You'll be able to buy a matrix to make these weapons. Isn't that opening up the market in the event of a very dangerous operation in terms of the possibility of producing illegal weapons? That is why I am asking you to accept this amendment, because it really is the exclusion of a certain gap that this law leaves behind. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u433	Thank you. This is Mr Bartosz Józwiak. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u434	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I must say that the Minister has misled the High House and the public because the Weapons Registration System, as you know, will not meet the relevant requirements for the protection of the information that these systems need, in which particularly sensitive information is recorded. Minister! I have to say this. If the Ministry of National Defence was involved in consultations, why is it clear in this letter that they did not really know what it was about? Finally, it says that this purchased weapon should not be registered in the SRB because of its particular purpose. The Ministry of National Defence only thanks to the social side and the Members of the opposition found out in general that you want to disclose this information in the system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What was this consultation process like when at this stage the Ministry of National Defence could not submit and make no such comments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u435	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 191, against - 225, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 14 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 1. The proposal made by minorities is the same as the 2nd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! This is an amendment, a minority proposal, in principle, which I addressed to the committee, which is the same as the amendment addressed also by the Civic Platform. It's just one thing. This law reproduces this provision, which states that the licensing authority may appeal against a doctor's decision as regards the fact that the applicant does not meet the conditions of mental or psychiatric health. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know on what basis the issuing authority may undermine the decision of a specialist doctor. What's worse, it's the final decision. The person concerned shall no longer be entitled to appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't this absurd? Someone's appealing the decision. We bring the doctor's decision that we are healthy, and an organ that has no specialty at all in this area, says: no, we disagree. He's appealing to another doctor. After all, these doctors are actually on the list because they have to meet certain requirements when it comes to specialization. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're on the list if they're connected to the ministry. Ladies and gentlemen! Please accept this amendment. She's very pro-Citizenish. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u437	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, what Mr Józwiak said is absolutely right. I understand you're getting used to the fact that the Attorney General knows what the court is going to do. You're just not gonna make it. What right does an MSWiA official, a concessionaire, or an employer who employs an employee, question a medical certificate? Let's see what the real reasons are. In fact, it can only be a specific clerk's will. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u439	The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u440	Since there are very serious political accusations here, I would just like to say to Mr Platform Civics that this provision was also in force when the PO-PSL coalition was in charge, which was overseen by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I do not recall you questioning this possibility. These provisions have been in force in Polish legislation since 2001 and have not yet been used by MSWiA. On the other hand, I am pleased that the Member is now presenting his opposition. It's a shame you didn't show it back then. I would like to say that this provision gives an opportunity in a situation where the authority, when the ministry takes information e.g. The police said that someone was being treated for schizophrenia and got a positive medical opinion. The Ministry gives a path so that such a person doesn't get a license to manufacture explosives or trade explosives, weapons. I would ask you not to bring such high political tone into the substantive discussion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u441	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd minority proposal and 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 189, against - 226, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the third minority proposal to Article. Paragraph 24 3 applicants propose to delete point 2. Amendment 3 is the same with the proposal made by minorities. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must respond briefly to the Minister. It's very good that the Minister mentioned that the police will decide who doesn't get a license because it works great today, the same recipe, on the arm of the arms and ammunition bill. So that I thank you for telling the House what this is all about and who will decide. On the other hand, this amendment is essentially about one particular thing. The deletion of this point is very important, because this point states that there must be no convictions for the removal of an economic operator's licence to which the proceedings have begun. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, first of all, corruption, because it says that you can take that license away from him, but you don't need it, which means you're not gonna take it away from anybody else, you're not gonna take it away. Secondly, we will have another rule, we maintain the rule that made Mr. Kluska lose all his assets. Ladies and gentlemen, do you wish to take on the conscience of potential Mr. Noodles, who will be destroyed by the company, to destroy the business, and then, after that sentence, will you apologize? [[Applause]] I'm really asking you to accept this correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u443	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to appeal to our role model again, the Attorney General. If the licence can be revoked after the start of proceedings, in case of proceedings against any criminal offence, e.g. What a problem it is for the Attorney General to order someone to initiate this procedure. We know these practices, which is why this is a recipe that actually serves to make entrepreneurs incompetent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u445	Thank you. Would the Minister like to speak? Actually, there were no questions. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd request for minorities and 3rd amendments, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 190, against - 222, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 4. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we really want to do something that wasn't done. Well, many times, when we amend a law, we change its records, and we make sure that there is consistency of the provisions in other laws that speak of the same thing. In this case, this is exactly what we are violating, because we are changing the provisions of this law, we are adopting certain provisions concerning specific elements, while the same elements are completely different from those described in the Act on Arms and Ammunition. Unfortunately, we will have one thing, if we do not accept this amendment, we will have a dichotomy in the description of the situation. In fact, it's very important, because for example. There will be a difference as to the date, in the case of a separate charge firearms - here will be the year 1900, there will be the year 1889. For the sake of clarity, really, for the sake of transparency, and at the same time to eliminate the possibility of different interpretations, I would ask for this amendment to be adopted. The question is: If we don't do this, which rule will be paramount, which rule will we use? They're mutually exclusive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u447	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 4th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For -190, against - 222, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th amendment to the article. The applicants shall propose the addition of points 2a and 3a. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. Mr Bartosz Józwiak resigns from the question. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For -190, against - 225, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 174. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u448	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Much of this law is said by the fact that during the meeting of the subcommittee, the members of this subcommittee of Law and Justice held back during the voting of key elements for this law, which caused chaos. You should have organised a break and agreed on how to vote. Therefore, the question to the Minister. Perhaps it would be wise to postpone the entry into force of these provisions, which will ensure that this amendment can be prepared in such a way that a correct project, which contains appropriate definitions, is in line with the technical terminology which will allow for agreement with the European Commission on the content of the Directive and the translation, which will allow it to verify how it is possible to It will be implemented in other countries that have the arms industry so as not to cause chaos. Accepting it on those dates that are in the bill will cause chaos. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Do you want to cause chaos in the arms industry?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u449	The Minister wants to answer? Please. Deputy Minister of Interior and Administration Paweł Majewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u450	The law implements the directive required by EU law, so it is a rather strange proposal for a club which, when it comes to EU legislation, argues that it should be implemented and respected as soon as possible. [[Voice from the room: To the substance.]] [[I want you to answer the question.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think these charges are false and there will be no chaos. I'd like you gentlemen to... [[An argument of some kind.]] [[The voice from the room: You should know that.]] I just want to thank the committee for working on this bill. [[Voice from the room: Do you know or not?]] I think the Sejm committee has made the necessary changes. Thank you, Mr Czartoryski, Mrs Sarkowska... [[That's a great argument, really.]] ...who worked on this bill for a long time before she went to the Sejm. I think we are presenting a project that is the optimal implementation of EU law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u451	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For -190, against - 227, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose amendments to the definition of the annex to the Act. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is accompanied by a part which is called an annex, and in fact contains a very important element, i.e. definitions of certain concepts, definitions of different types of weapons, categories of weapons, elements of ammunition. Ladies and gentlemen, this is based on a terrible translation into Polish. It is difficult to say that this is a Polish language, because what was added to the annex in the form of a definition is not even understandable to a person who uses normal Polish language. Can we really, as a 40-million-dollar country aspiring to lead Central Europe in the European Union, not make a decent translation that will be embedded in the Polish nicknamed defence experts, in the Polish tradition? We propose to improve these things, to straighten them out so that they are understandable to the Polish audience. Unfortunately, there's no agreement, I don't know why, ladies and gentlemen, because it's going to be a thing that's probably going to be on other changes in other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u453	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 190, against - 229, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Club Kukiz.15. [[Bartek, you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the last time, so you don't have to be impatient. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill as it is, everyone sees. Everyone sees it today, after the amendments that have been rejected. To be honest, this law in its present form is generally a status quo, a maintenance of all bad records and practically does not introduce anything that would benefit entrepreneurs, which would change things for the better. We may no longer collect tons of shell casings, but this is absurd, something that should have been changed for 20 years now, because it doesn't serve anything. Unfortunately, you did not agree with the introduction of any elements that would make it easier for entrepreneurs to function and live. Indeed, we are quickly implementing this law. The Germans haven't brought it in yet. All large countries, with a large arms industry, are waiting for what will happen next. We are suddenly, in this one case, among those who are moving forward, i.e. among very small countries without industry. Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot support this law because it [[♪ The bell ♪]] It doesn't change anything, and it's even bad. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u455	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a dilemma when it comes to voting on the whole law, because it is indeed weak, it does not meet all the expectations that were expressed by the social side, but since the previous law came into force, both the legal environment and the safety environment have changed. Although this law requires absolute improvement, we believe that it needs to be adopted because it introduces certain seals, it results in an improvement - not big, but an improvement - of the situation. At the same time, I'm not actually asking a question, but on behalf of the club I'm making a declaration that this bill will be revised next year when the PiS loses the majority. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u457	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u458	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This law is a legal framework based on incorrect translation of the directive from English, translation which does not take into account technical terminology and, as one expert said at the committee meeting, contains definitions that are random words that de facto mean nothing. Is it possible to vote for such a project? I don't think so, all the more so, for example. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 24 3 point 2 we have a clear, simple path to corruption, a path that creates a law according to which an official can make any decision. It is not fair to entrepreneurs and it will create such a gray area in this area. Absolutely not acceptable. The social side has expressed a very critical opinion about this project, entrepreneurs have also expressed a very critical opinion, so we will certainly not support this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You just have to throw it away, rewrite it, so that it regulates this important... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u459	Thank you. Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law shows the typical approach of PiS to Brussels, to the European Union, i.e. the patriotic, independent phrase addressed to the Polish recipient, and then the overzealous process over all directives that only go from Brussels. I was a participant in the work of the European Union Committee on Affairs at the beginning of this term, and I saw it. The PiS is no different from the Civic Platform when it comes to belting all the most nonsense EU law solutions into Polish legislation. That's the truth. In fact, the difference is rhetorical, but in practice, when it comes to proceding laws and tapes from Brussels, it is exactly the same. I would also like to say that all this patriotic rhetoric does not serve anything concrete, because you have not proposed any systemic reforms in this area, in the area concerning the European Union. Today, the symbol of the European policy of PiS is unfortunately a Polish soldier carrying the EU flag on national holidays. That's the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u461	Anna Maria Siarkowska, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government: Is it true that the work on this project was carried out together with the social side, with many NGOs, with many entrepreneurs, even before this law came to the Sejm? Is it true that at the subcommittee meetings we worked on this bill with the social side for many hours, for many days? And is it true that many of the amendments of the social side have been adopted? This law is a kind of consensus between the interests of state security and business interests. I think we have succeeded in implementing this directive, which is problematic, in a relatively mild and beneficial way for Polish entrepreneurs. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u463	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 3429, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For -372, against -41, holding down 5. The Sejm has passed a law on the performance of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Senate draft law on the amendment of the law on cooperative law. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3449. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting this bill in its entirety, print 3449, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Cooperative Law Act. We would like to return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliament's Affairs and Immunity on the request of the Chief Police Commissioner of 20 December 2018 to allow the Sejm to be held liable for a criminal offence by Joanna Schmidt. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes that the Sejm accept a request for consent to the criminal liability of Joanna Schmidt. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Joanna Schmidt. We're voting. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of the request of the Chief Police Officer of 20 December 2018 to agree that the Sejm should be held liable for the criminal offence of Joanna Schmidt for the act specified in this request, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. Absolute majority - 231. For - 249, against - 166. I state that by an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm has adopted a resolution on consenting to the criminal liability of Joanna Schmidt for the act specified in the application of the Chief Police Commissioner. We would like to refer to item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor David Wachowiak of 5 December 2018, supplemented on 5 February 2019 by the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes that the Sejm accept a request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras. We're voting. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of the application of the private prosecutor David Wachowiak of 5 December 2018, supplemented on 5 February 2019, for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras for the act specified in this request, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. Absolute majority - 231. For - 255, against - 165, 1 Member abstained. By an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm adopted a resolution on consenting to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras for the act specified in the application of the private prosecutor David Wachowiak. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans. The additional report shall be in print No 3450-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Sejm held a second reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, print no. 3450. Six amendments were tabled during the debate. The amendments were addressed to the meeting of the Finance Committee. At today's meeting, the committee considered these amendments. Amendments 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 received a positive recommendation from the committee. Amendment 2 was rejected by the committee. Amendments 1, 5 and 6 should be voted on together. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend the adoption of this important draft Act on Employee Capital Plans, print no. 3450. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u465	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's a 3450 print. In an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to amend the title of the draft law. Amendments 5 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1, 5 and 6, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 272, against - 1 held 138. The Sejm accepted the amendments. The other amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Act on Employee Capital Plans. In the second amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 The applicants propose to leave the wording of point 40 to date. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favor of... Excuse me, there are questions. [[Questions.]] The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 1 July this year, the Act on Employee Capital Plans will enter into force and the first companies, the largest companies in Poland, will join this program, employing 250 people. In January, smaller entrepreneurs will enter, the smallest in the middle of the year. When's the public administration? Only from the beginning of 2021. You've given yourselves a lot of time to prepare your budgets so that the state administration can afford to increase labour costs. You didn't give the entrepreneurs that time. And tonight, you're gonna be raising those costs. If today Poles complain about the cost in shops, this increase in labour costs will translate into an even greater increase in prices. There's no other way out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do not remove the upper limit...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u467	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u468	...from which contributions are... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...walked away. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u469	Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I should say, Mr Kaczyński, author of the five Kaczyńskis. Because this money is for Kaczyński's five. You take 30 times the people in the ZUS so you can drive around the rallies and brag about giving away money. If there's a premium in the ZUS for someone, then they should go into savings so that they can collect savings in the ZUS later. [[But what are you talking about?]] But they're not going. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] They go for Mr. Kaczyński to brag about giving away. Why don't you tell me you're taking it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u471	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u472	Why don't you come out here and say, "Yes, I'm taking multiples from you in ZUS, I'm taking 30 times? [[Applause]] [[Get to the point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u473	Mr President, please ask the representative of the applicants or the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u474	Why don't you say it? [[Applause]] [[This law does not apply to the assessment of the Social Security Office.]] Your policy, Moravian and Kaczyński's politics, this is Flip and Flap's policy...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u475	Mr President, please ask questions about the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u476	...maybe it's funny for three minutes, but then there's drama. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u477	I draw your attention, and this is the fourth time in this session.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u478	Mr. Marshal, my question was: Why doesn't Mr. Kaczyński come out and say as the author of this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u479	Mr President, in this manner, you are provoking the situation and causing... [[Please, Marshal, don't embarrass yourself.]] ...that I'm going to have to reprimand you financially. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] Please, I'm paying attention to you. This is the last time, for the last time. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] [[Nobody believes it's the last time.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Which one of you is in favour... There you go. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the PO-KO Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u481	Quiet, please. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u482	Why didn't you explain to this gentleman that this is your amendment? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u483	I'd like to ask... Sir... Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just asking you to come forward quicker to ask questions. [[But you didn't stop, you didn't stop.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 187, against - 227, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 13 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2 and point 2 of paragraph 2. 4. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, please carry your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 260, against - 5, with 146. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 28 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 4 and repeal paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - 258, against - 4, holding 143. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The whole bill. There are questions. The question is asked by Mr Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In order to direct the savings of Poles to the capital market, there must be investors who have confidence in this market. However, in a country governed by the PiS, even financial market supervision cannot be trusted. For two years, a corrupt official appointed by Prime Minister Szydło was headed by the Financial Supervision Committee. At a time when he was corrupting investors, GetBack slogans unpunishedly on the financial market and sold toxic bonds for PLN 2,300 million. [[Applause]] Yesterday in the Seym there were women crying - Mr Nobleman was a witness - who lost their lives. You want to turn the savings of Poles into a market like this, put them at risk? The platform will vote against this bill because... [[Then decide if you're talking about ZUS...]] ...it serves only the Mitoman ideas of Prime Minister Morawiecki, and the capital market has served for a year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] operates the worst in the history of the Stock Exchange. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u485	Thank you, Member. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u486	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, For a few days now, I have been asking the Minister whether the liquidation of the upper limit of the contributions from which the money will be paid to the PPK is an indication of the liquidation of the upper limit of the ZUS contributions. From what Minister Emilewicz said at the last meeting of the committee, it is clear that you want to eliminate this upper border, order Poles to pay a horrendously high contribution to the Social Security Office and then sentence them to a solidarity system and a civic pension, because you know that the Social Security Office will simply not afford to pay these horrendously high chimney pensions. Unfortunately, there is no minister, but maybe someone from the government is willing to tell Poles what their future is, and is it true that in a moment you will be drawing even higher contributions to the Social Security Office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u487	Thank you. We're going to vote on the whole thing. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3450 along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 230, against - 171, 18 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Construction Law. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence on the governmental bill amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Act on the Departments of Government Administration. We proceed to the third reading. The additional report shall be in print No 3452-A. I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During the second reading of the law, which we are now discussing, a proposal for rejection and seven amendments were tabled. Three of these amendments were withdrawn by applicants due to their unprofessional preparation. There are four amendments left. The Commission recommends rejecting the proposal for rejection and rejecting the four amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u489	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's a 3452 print. The Commissions in the additional report present a proposal to reject the draft law in full and an amendment. First of all, we will vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The committees are asking for his rejection. The adoption of the proposal will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is raised by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u490	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is an expression of PiS incompetence. With the arrival of your governments there was a mess in the Polish Space Agency. I would like to ask questions about this, among others. to Prime Minister Szydło. Prime Minister! Is it true that you turned a blind eye to this mess? Is it true that among others. in August 2017, you were aware of irregularities in the Polish Space Agency and did nothing about it? Is it true that so far there is no permanent elected president of the Polish Space Agency? You've had four years to do this. Is it true the president's case is in the D.A.'s office? Is it true that you were afraid of Minister Macierewicz, who sent Colonel Suszyński there, who has been the President of the Polish Space Agency illegally for over a year? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u491	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 171, against - 228, the 15. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[And the answer?]] Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the Polish Space Agency. In the first amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 3a. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 170, against - 225, with 17. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete the amendments to Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4) and do not add point 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 171, against - 229, stopped 20. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 applicants propose not to add point 6. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 170, against - 229, holding 18. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 4 draft amending act. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Answer!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns an article which will cause, if the law is adopted without amendment, that all workers will lose their jobs at the time of the entry into force of this law. In fact, this article shows your true intentions. It's not about fixing what you've ruined, because it would have gone away somehow, but it's about bringing more Pisiewicz into the Polish Space Agency. The point is to bring in more people, mediocre, passive, but faithful. Prime Minister Szydło, is it true that among others. on one of the workers illegally released from the Polish Space Agency has already been sentenced and that it must be restored to work? And is it true that this article in this bill makes you want to legalize the unlawful dismissal of employees? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u493	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 183, against - 227, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Member Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to the lack of reply by Prime Minister Szydło and the lack of presence of Prime Minister Morawiecki today, who, in accordance with the current law, should watch over what is happening in the Polish Space Agency, I have only one question for you, Prime Minister Szydło. Do you even know what's going on around you, or are you just thinking in Brussels? Would you like to step out on the stand and answer me? [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Insolent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u495	That's the question. Not about that. [[The answer was about it.]] We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3452 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 234, against 167, with 12 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Law on the Departments of Government Administration. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services. The additional report shall be in print No 3461-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present this report. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bogdan, Bogdan.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report from two joint committees: the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. At a very long, very important, very good meeting yesterday, the two joint committees decided to reject the amendments. That's right. Thank you very much. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u497	Thank you, sir. It's about print number 3461. The committees present the proposals of minorities, as well as the amendments that we will vote on first. I would like to inform you that minority 1 and 3 applications have been withdrawn by applicants. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 1. 2. Amendments 2 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the futility of minority proposals 2 and 10 to 12. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill provides that it will not receive funding for the creation of metropolitan union bus lines, which is in the Śląskie voivodship. In practice, 41 municipalities with nearly 2.5 million inhabitants will remain without government support. Often these are small municipalities away from the centre of the metropolis, municipalities in financial difficulties. Mr President, if this bill is adopted without amendment, there will be no Kaczynski Friday in Silesia, there will be the highest four. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[There's not gonna be a five at all.]] Minister, why are nearly 2.5 million citizens excluded from the government's programme? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u499	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń has the floor. Only, ladies and gentlemen, please address either the Member of the representative, the rapporteur, or the representative of the government, because this is the procedure. [[But I've been turning around.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u500	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the subjective exclusion of public transport. I ask this because it is about a certain impulse to integrate these communication systems. The state law using such exemptions and the preference of municipalities makes it possible to create transport islands, i.e. preferred municipalities, which organise transport themselves, and the idea is to organise transport, for example. in county-gminy relationships. Unfortunately, this bill does not inspire this. Minister, why such subjective, not e.g. present, disabling organized transport? That would be understandable, but a subjective shutdown? After all, sometimes it is that this transport has this function of eliminating communication exclusion, so this subjective exclusion is simply pointless, it will act counterproductively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u501	Mr Jerzy Poleczek, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Referring to Mr Marek Wójcik's question, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is true that the purpose of the metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship established under the March 2017 Sejm Act is to integrate public transport and, above all, this metropolitan union is already receiving more than PLN 340 million of taxes, which are specifically dedicated to this local government entity, and this is a significant increase in expenditure on increasing the offer of public transport by bus and rail. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the question was addressed to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u503	Wait a minute. I'll be right with you. The question was addressed to the rapporteur. The rapporteur is Mr Rzoniec. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u504	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to reassure Silesia and Poland as a whole. There will be five Kaczyńskis in Silesia. [[Applause]] [[Please address the representatives of the government.]] 40 million PLN is from the Metropolitan Act. It is a pity that the Silesian Member does not know this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You're illegally funding an election campaign.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u505	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1, 2 and 6, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 173, against - 239, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second minority proposal to Article. 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 3. This proposal is linked to 12. minority request. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These amendments also concern the inclusion of a government programme in the metropolitan area. Gentlemen! When you amended the law, our passed metropolitan law of 2015, in 2016, you did not say that Silesia would be punished by the inability to participate in government programs. Mr Polack! That's not what your constituents expect you to deprive our region of government support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u507	Thank you. Mr Polaczek with a question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u508	Mr. Wójcik! You are asking increasingly absurd questions, especially since, on the one hand, the uniform draft law on establishing a metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship is an additional PLN 340 million for 41 municipalities. By the way, these tax revenues are higher due to economic growth. Secondly: Can Mr Bogdan Rzońc confirm that it is to the rest of the Silesian voivodeship, like Podbeskid, like the former Częstochowa voivodeship, that additional resources will be dedicated to start-up? [[Where's the voivodship?]] It is about funds for new bus connections, as well as in all Poland. So that the resources are several times more. [[Applause]] [[PKS are down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u509	Mr Mirosław Suchoń has the floor. I would only ask questions to the rapporteur or to the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u510	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr Polack! Really don't tell the truth, because you know perfectly well that areas like Bielsko-Biała, like Cieszyn, like Pszczyna, like Żywiec, like Czechowice-Dziedzice...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u511	Mr President, this is not the time for discussion, this is the time...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u512	...which are urban municipalities, are excluded...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u513	...to ask questions to the rapporteur and the representative of the government. I'm so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u514	But that's the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u515	There shouldn't be a discussion between the Members at the moment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u516	But that's a substantive question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u517	Then ask a question to the rapporteur or to the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u518	Of course. Is it true that in addition to the fact that you have excluded the Silesian metropolis from the government programme and there will indeed be no funds from this programme, i.e. several million people will be harmed, will be treated in such an unworthy way, it is also Bielsko-Biała, Cieszyn, Żywiec, Pszczyna, Czechowice-Dziedzice, which are urban-rural municipalities which do not have this mobility and where transport is also carried out, are also areas which you exclude this law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that okay? [[Applause]] [[How about a corrigendum?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u519	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the request of minorities 2 and 12, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 171, against - 237, stopped 4. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete points 1 to 4. Amendments 7 to 16 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the futility of minority proposals 4, 14 and 15. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club. [[Voice from the room: Move, move!]] Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the funding issues. Minister! Is it true that the replacement fee changes increase the rate by 40%? This is the substitute fee that energy plants pay as a result of a failure to adjust the level of clean energy generation. And now this rate affects energy bills, electricity bills that Poles pay. Minister, is it true that by 40% net increase of this substitute fee and this will therefore affect the price of electricity paid by Poles? The second thing I want to ask you is the impact of the fuel levy. These changes, which you proposed in the Act, will result in about PLN 130 million less for the National Road Fund, because this is the result of financial information on the impact of excise duties presented by the Ministry of Finance. Another thing. It's supposed to be electromobility. (BELL RINGING) [[♪ The bell ♪]] (The Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, applause) [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[70% is an increase...]] Thank you, sir. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u520	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Amendment 3 concerns the sources of financing of the passenger transport development fund. These sources are, of course, the emission levy in question, the fuel levy. The question must be for the Prime Minister now, because Minister Adamczyk was unable to answer. Do we have to destroy the other in order to fix one thing? Have we really dealt with the smog problem, the issue fee? Have we implemented the electromobility program? How many electric vehicles are already driving on Polish roads? Have we completed the infrastructure programmes to the end? Why are we slimming the National Road Fund? Why are we losing the Railway Fund? Have these programmes been implemented? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: The law change.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u521	Thank you. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk requests the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u522	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be patient in explaining, explaining. I will answer to the Member who asks if it is true. Mr President, it is not true. I explained it to you yesterday morning, I explained it to you yesterday afternoon, and I explained it to you last night. [[Maybe it makes sense.]] It is not true, it is not true, sir. [[Applause]] You know that very well. There's no energy charge here. You're raising a debate. As for the other Member who asked the question, I will allow myself to strain the time of the High House and answer. The total amount of the issue fee shall not be amended. The amendment concerns the redirection of part of the revenue from this levy from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Low-carbon Transport Fund to the Development Fund for Bus Transport. Mr President, I read this passage yesterday morning, yesterday afternoon and yesterday evening. I hope you understood that this time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You were missing the truth yesterday, you're missing the truth today.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u523	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 3 and 7 to 16, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 180, against - 226, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 5 applicants propose the new wording of point 4. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister does not want to answer about the reasons why almost 2.5 million citizens are excluded from the government programme. Mr. President! It's not too late. There's the Senate. You have the opportunity to include 2.5 million citizens in your bill. metropolitan union solutions are solutions adopted in 2015 and subsequently repeated in 2016 and have nothing to do with the PiS programme. I remind you, if this bill is passed in this form, there will be no Kaczynski Five in Silesia, only four of them will be there. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[There won't be a four at all.]] [[Voice from the room: There will be three.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u525	I would like to point out to you that the question should be asked to the rapporteur and to the representative of the government. [[But with you, everything is reported in Novgorodska.]] You've got Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u526	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I asked you yesterday morning, I asked you yesterday afternoon, I asked you last night, and I still haven't gotten an answer. [[Applause]] [[Deaf phone.]] The people of Wielkopolska ask me to ask again: Why did you eliminate PKS Gniezno? [[Poznan, Częstochowa, Szczecin.]] On 1 May the whole of Poland was informed that although PiS is fighting transport exclusion, PKS Gniezno, a state carrier subordinate to the Minister of Infrastructure, definitely suspends all courses, and it was the main carrier in the district of Gniezno and in the district of September. [[Scandal!]] Minister! How could you lead to this, that from day to day residents of Gniezno County could not get from the capital of their district or the capital of the voivodship? What did you do to turn PKS Gniezno into a modern transport company adapted to the 21st century reality? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u527	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 4th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 178, against - 226, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose to add point 4. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u528	High Seym! This law is dedicated to Sperpherized Areas where there is a problem of communication exclusion, de facto rural areas. The law in those elements where it decides on the allocation of funds to voivodships or the allocation of funds to individual entities to carry out public transport reveals a clear lack of knowledge about the nature of these areas. This is why we propose in this amendment to take into account the criterion: the size of settlement units in rural areas. Can the Minister deny that the problem is greater where settlement units are small, e.g. in Podlasie, in most areas of Mazovia, than in Podkarpacie or in Małopolska? The difference between the average size of the settlement unit is like 150 to 900. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u529	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 5th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 167, against - 239, holding down 3. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 22. This amendment is linked to the 5th amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the nullity of the 6th minority proposal. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u530	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister, it's the second night we're asking what's going on with the PKS in Gniezno and you're still not answering. I'll do it. Second night, I'm asking about PKS in Krosno, where your piS colleagues have liquidated and sold their assets below criticism. The question is, is this how you recreated those calls? In the Act, you saved funding for communication lines that have not functioned for at least 3 months before the date of entry into force of the Act. I have to say, this is absolutely going across the needs that local government officials are reporting. Today, local governments keep these unprofitable lines, they add to them, and they need this support so they don't close them. This recipe is an impulse to close the line. There will be closed lines, perhaps later they will be restarted, perhaps not. Question: "Why did you write down such restrictions in this law?" It's gonna be another counter-productive recipe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u531	Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u532	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! About the answer you gave me to the question you asked. You were missing the truth yesterday when we were investigating this project. You were missing the truth this morning. Now you're missing the truth too. And now for amendments 4 and 5. They're about funding. These subsidies are intended to cover the financing of communication lines which have not been operating for at least 3 months. The basic question is: what about these lines, precisely those entrepreneurs, who make an excessive effort, even heroically carry out transport, even though revenues do not cover costs? Why can't these companies apply? After all, the purpose that you set in this bill to shrink the communication exclusion... [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's gonna get bigger because these companies aren't gonna make it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u533	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 4 and 5, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 170, against - 239, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 22. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This provision states that only those lines which have not been in operation for at least 3 months prior to the date of entry into force of the Act may apply for payments from the Fund. So all these municipalities and districts, which are very hard to maintain deficit lines, will not be able to apply for this unless, I don't know, within a month they delete these lines. On the other hand, those who do not maintain deficit lines will be able to apply for this. This is some irrational provision that really discriminates against those who are actually making the most effort to maintain deficit lines. It would be enough to make a guarantee that all municipalities can apply, but they can't reduce the aid measures that so far claim that it must be additional, so to speak, money rather than money on which they will save some other expenses. The recipe is simply counter-productive and anti-motivational for those municipalities and districts that make this effort. [[Applause]] [[That's what you had to do when you were in charge. That's what you had to do when you were in charge.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u535	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 6th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 168, against - 237, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. Paragraph 24 The applicant shall propose to delete point 3. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u536	High Seym! Imagine that when calculating a regional envelope for voivodships, the amount of GDP obtained in voivodship is to be taken into account. This criterion will, of course, hit the Mazovia most, which is the richest. It's a completely pointless criterion. The size of the regional outskirts is important, and the largest ones are Mazowsze. Then there is Lower Silesia - also a huge regional outskirts, especially in the Sudetes. Why do you need a criterion like that? I've been trying to get to the point. The Minister thought he was open to discussion, but your deputy is just concrete on these issues. You can't do that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u537	That wasn't a question. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 7th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 165, against - 237, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Applause]] In the 8th minority proposal to Article. Paragraph 24 2 applicants propose to add point 3a. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we are asking you, including the minority proposal, to point out that the regions are not evenly rich. You want GDP in the region to decide who gets the money and who doesn't, but for example. Częstochowa, in which PKS falls, Mr Kaczyński, is poorer than the Silesian average. And the Szczecin, where the White Bear is, which you probably remember well...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u539	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to asking questions to the rapporteur and to the representative of the government. [[But what is it anyway? Censor? I don't want him to speak at all.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no way to speak.]] [[If you know what's going to happen next, then why ask?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u540	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So my question is to this Mr Kaczyński from the government who created the five Kaczyńskis. This amendment...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u541	Mr President, for the last time, I would like to draw your attention to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But what's going on? Are you crazy?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u542	You're making it impossible for me to say anything. [[Change the powder.]] This amendment aims to examine sub-regionally so that, in the direction of proposals, regions, sub-regions in voivodships, poorer regions can obtain preferences in relation to richer... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[It's disgusting what you're doing. Your decency has left you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u543	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Which one of you... Mr Nitras, I would like to point out to you that your behaviour has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: How can you do that?]] [[That's disgusting.]] [[That you're not ashamed.]] [[Voice from the hall: How embarrassing are you?]] Who among you is in favour of the 8th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. Za - 166, against - 241, holding down 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 9th minority proposal to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 9th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 167, against - 248, abstained 1. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 10th minority proposal to Article. The 25 applicants shall propose to delete paragraph. 2. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 11th minority proposal irrelevant. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u544	Minister! You have adopted very extensive criteria for the allocation of funds to operators, within the voivodships they will be shared by the voivodships. At the same time, you assume that there will be a order of allocation. If these funds were not available, the counties, which are the natural transport market, would not have received the money. This passage makes absolutely no sense. You've got bunk criteria where every voivode, and I'm sure the one from the PiS, is gonna get lost. I propose to delete this record as irrelevant, unnecessary, especially since we do not have a metropolitan relationship there, about which Mr. Marek Wójcik spoke. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u545	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 10th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 169, against - 247, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 11th minority proposal to Article. 25 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u546	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! Self-government, focus. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Well, first of all, when it comes to the payment, they're going to have... In the first place, the funds will be given to municipalities, only later inter-gminne relationships, as the third district-gminne relationships, etc. After all, this contradicts the logic according to which this law should be implemented. From this law there should be an impulse for municipalities and districts to merge, to form district-gminne unions and to jointly implement communication policy. After all, that is why white spots are created and there is the exclusion of communication, that municipalities as lonely islands try to accomplish this kind of task. It's not gonna work. It'll be counterproductive. Minister! Why would you think that? Why don't you go? [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the voice of the self-governments who are expecting just... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u547	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 11th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 168, against - 244, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 13th. the applicant's minority application proposes to delete Article. 29. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u548	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There are many questions because there are also many absurdities in this bill. Another question I wanted to ask: Minister, why will the grants be granted only by the end of the year this year? It will not be possible to plan the rational use of funds in the future, because by the end of the year the agreement and the municipality will end, which will make a difficult decision to start a non-profit carriage, will not be sure that it will receive such funding for the following years. Maybe it's just an election sausage. By the end of the year, funding is provided, because it's only 300 million, not 800 million, and what happens later, after the election, you're no longer interested. That's what these rules look like. Why do you not allow local authorities and transport operators to reasonably plan the future operation of those lines that need to be supported? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u549	Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u550	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Same case. The support programme shall be a multiannual programme. Why do you limit the possibility of signing transport contracts by one year? After all, the operator providing such services must first of all ensure the safety of the passengers carried, i.e. he must invest. How will he take the risk of investing when he does not know that he will be able to benefit from the aid next year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u551	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the adoption of 13. Minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 182, against - 232, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a The Road Transport Act is proposed by applicants, among others. in point 1, in order for the amount of revenue referred to in that provision to be 50%. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u552	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to point out that these questions were not answered during committee meetings. [[Voice from the room: You won't get it.]] I wanted to ask, Minister, why you're limiting the revenue from the transport permits that have been going on the roads so far to finance road construction, road maintenance, BRD-related issues. So far, it's been 50%. Now you're limiting it to 20%, which means the amount transferred is going to drop by 30%. These are serious measures. There's an investment planned. We all know that tenders for road construction are unfortunately expensive. Companies expect a higher wage, they come down from buildings. In the meantime, you're downloading more funds from this funding path to finance another idea. This is irresponsible, Minister, and the question is, is this definitely the right direction? In our opinion, bad. The amendment corrects that. I'm asking you to vote her out. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u553	Thank you very much. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 14th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 171, against - 245, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 15th minority proposal to Article. 23 Laws on Biocomponents and Liquid Biofuels are proposed by applicants, among others. Do not add lips. 1 a. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club. [[Come on, Mirek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u554	I'll take it and ask you a question. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is surprising that an amendment to the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid Biofuels is included in the Bus Transport Act. This amendment introduces two changes. The first amendment is to change the minimum level of achievement of the national indicative target by 5%. This means that companies obliged to produce clean energy for the next three years will be relieved, so they will continue to poison us and release smog into the air. It is surprising, of course, that this change by chance is introduced in the Bus Act. The second thing I want to say, which is also surprising, is a 40% increase in the replacement fee paid by energy companies and subsequently included in the electricity bill issued to consumers. Therefore, the adoption of this law will lead to increased pressure on the introduction of price increases. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Is that what this is about... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u555	Thank you very much. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 15th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 188, against - 232, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Members asked questions before voting on the whole of the bill. Mr Richard Petru, near Now! [[Finally.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For these 800 million PLN, which you spend on non-profit bus connections, you can buy 35 trains each year from which you had to give up the Dolnośląskie Railways, because there was not enough money for it. In the Lower Silesian Seym, the PiS rules. [[You can ride in the trunk.]] For this 800 million PLN, roads, railway lines and rolling stock could be renovated every year. That's not gonna happen, because all the money goes to Kaczyński's five. Each dollar spent on 500+, thirteenth pension or PKS is less on teachers, health care and roads. PKS, corporate nationalization, propaganda on television - this is a return to the Polish People's Republic. This is all intended to serve one purpose - the enslavement of society. The easiest way to enslave society is to make it financially addictive. It's up to the state to decide who pays, who gets the money and who doesn't. [[Genius.]] Those who disagree with such a vision should vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u557	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u558	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday, a disgusting material was displayed on Polish Television about the work on this law. [[Voice from the room: Give it up today.]] I must say that the scale of the disgustingness of this material shows that the opposition is right when it criticises the logic of a project that contradicts common sense. This is the result of discussions with local authorities on the real needs of passengers. These changes should be implemented in such a way as to serve the interests of passengers. The bill will not increase the number of these connections. Maybe somebody's gonna use it. I'd like to compare this bill to a vaccine. For the vaccine to work, you need to apply it to the right place. This bill is aimed at the transporter body and you're trying to put it somewhere. In the end, it may turn out that if it is pushed incorrectly, it will make things worse. This was the case in Gniezno or Krosno, where you eliminated... [[♪ The bell ♪]] PKS... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u559	Thank you, sir. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[It's got a lot to do with buses.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u560	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During the legislative work on this law, we were basically in agreement that the exclusion of communication is a serious problem in our country. Unfortunately, our opinions on the scope of the problem and on the tools and size of the measures that should be used to eliminate it differ. The speed of work on this law - the first reading yesterday morning, the work of the joint committees at noon, the second reading in the evening and the third reading today - unfortunately confirms our conviction that it is a law resulting from the electoral fever. This is the thesis contained in the fifth Jarosław Kaczyński, filled with content by Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Adamczyk. Despite many shortcomings in the bill, we will support it with hope... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...that we will be able to support her in the fall as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u561	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[We'll fix it.]] [[We'll fix it on Sunday.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u562	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Why didn't this bill go to the board of joint government and government? In this case, you were obliged to listen first to the opinion of local authorities. Moreover, during my work on the committee, I tabled amendments to the local government. They were rejected by the countries. Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments really saved the right idea of fighting exclusion. If you do not accept these amendments today, you are punishing local transport workers. At the same time, you are introducing a very unstable situation on the market for this transport in small municipalities. And one more thing, Marshal. Why did this bill really get such a rush? Did something happen in the country on the transport market that had to be done in 24 hours? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u563	The Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u564	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Before referring to the essential elements of this law, I would like to address the honourable Member, who spoke to Minister Weber in an imprudent way. Mr President, you asked a question that made it clear that you were not familiar with the draft regulation of the Council of Ministers attached to the bill. You should have read it with understanding. I will not insult you as you have offended Mr Weber, [[Applause]] But I hope that, after these votes, Mr Weber will apologize, so purely humanly, as an older colleague in this House. That's most of all. And now the question of comments on this bill. The criteria were repeatedly referred to here. These criteria are generally included in the Act, while the Regulation of the Council of Ministers will include an algorithm and there will be detailed rules for the allocation of funds into voivodships. If any of you have doubts that these measures will run out, I assure you: no, they will not. Why? After all, this was mentioned here by an outstanding representative of the economic world, a Member representing one of the opposition parties, when he pointed out that this money is really very much, because there are 800 million of them. But if you have doubts about the rolling stock, Mr President - as yesterday I appealed to the no longer present in this Chamber, after submitting a motion to reject the bill - please read into the material concerning the government's rolling stock policy. 7 billion PLN for railway rolling stock in the course of... 2023. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No idea...]] 135 billion for the national road construction programme. PLN 70.2 billion for the national railway programme. [[Applause]] PLN 24 billion within 5 years for a maintenance fund. So don't worry: there are resources, there are jobs, the railroad is changing. You don't notice. But please, I recommend to you and your colleagues a careful analysis of what is going on around public collective transport, around freight transport. Ladies and gentlemen! A bill that's under consideration here and which, I hope... I asked you yesterday, I appealed on behalf of the applicants, on behalf of the Polish government, that we should take him over the divisions, because Poles are just waiting for him. This project will change the transport reality in Poland, as described by the founder of this project, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Touchdown, fun in the hall, applause]] I assure you, we will. I assure you, we will. You adopted the Public Collective Transport Act in 2010. You assumed that the invisible hand of the market will straighten out all problems in car communication in Poland. And what happened? You've just paid special attention to cities, collective transport in cities. You've completely forgotten what's out of town. What's the effect? The invisible hand of the market eliminated most bus connections in Poland, but we will recreate them. Together we will recreate them, because if you help in these activities, in a few years we will have a completely different transport reality in Poland. If a Member comes out who, I hope, has at least one car with which there are no communication problems, he completely does not understand those who on Saturday, Sunday... those millions of Poles excluded by communication, who cannot leave their homes to a doctor, to a family, because they simply do not have what, have no such possibility, do not have a car, do not drive a car, do not have these opportunities. So that we dedicate this bill, we dedicate this bill and this initiative to all those who expect us to fight against communication exclusion decisively. The Government of Law and Justice is fighting the exclusion of communications and please help us in this because you are able. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We'll rule you out soon.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u565	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Mr. Marshal!]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[In corrigendum mode.]] Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3461, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For -381, against -6, holding 27. The Sejm passed a law on the Development Fund for public service bus services. [[Applause]] [[Sit down.]] We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Legislative Commission on the Government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3466-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u566	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I have the honour to present an additional report on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. 27 amendments were presented during the second reading of the project. Two of them were withdrawn. After considering the amendments tabled, the Commission recommends adopting amendments 4, 6, 7, 8 and 11 and rejecting amendments 1, 2, 3, 5, 9 and 10 and from 12 to 25. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u567	Thank you. I'm reminding you, it's a 3466 print. The amendments presented in the additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 to 12 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Penal Code Act. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes to delete points 1 to 69, 71 and 78 to 109. Amendments 5, 12 to 15, 17 to 19 and 21 to 24 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 2 to 6, 8 and 11. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u568	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is the best illustration of the saying: how much has to be done so that nothing changes. [[Applause]] This bill is not the answer to the fight against pedophilia in the Church. This law only increases the penalty, but does not give any guarantee, and even gives certainty that no prosecutor will have the courage to go to the bishop and question him about hiding paedophiles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] No D.A. will enter the rectory and demand documents related to the paedophile reports. Why? Because we have an alliance of the throne and altar, we have an alliance of President Kaczyński and Director Rydzyk. [[Applause]] [[So far, pedophiles have been in the P.O.]] No prosecutor, seeing his superiors kneeling at Rydzyk's parties, will go to the parish to request documents. No prosecutor will go to the bishop when your posters hang on the fences of the parish when your meetings are held in parishes. [[Applause]] You're trying to pretend to fight paedophiles. This bill won't change anything. [[Voice from the room: End!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: He will scream.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u569	Thank you. Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u570	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! True or false? Real concern for children or hypocrisy? Chasing all the pedophiles or avoiding those who are wearing collars? I have the impression that there is no concern for children behind this bill, only a sick vision of the state from Orwell's novel... [[When I hear you, I'm not sure.]] ...the vision of Minister Ziobra and the police of Minister Brudziński, who will be chasing movies soon. In order to effectively fight pedophilia, the one shown in the Sekielski movie just don't tell anyone, a committee is needed. We need a committee to look into the archives of the Catholic Church. But you don't want to fight in pedophilia. You want to do your business at the expense of the victims. If you have good intentions, you will support this amendment. Why, instead of just introducing pedophiles rules, did you plow the entire Penal Code? Because that was your main goal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u571	Mr Jakub Kulesz, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u572	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law removes from the Penal Code § Article 2 199, thus rendering it ineffective § 3 with the content of: the penalty referred to in paragraph 2 shall be subject to who has sexual relations with a minor or is committed to another sexual activity, or shall lead him to submit to such acts or to their execution, mistrusting or granting in return the property or personal benefit or its promise. Now, the question is: Who cared that sexually intercourse with minors should avoid criminal liability? [[Peterovich.]] As we know from the press reports, this could be about high-ranking people in public life. Who's behind all this? Who's in charge of all this? Is this amendment a coincidence? I don't think so. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u573	In this case, the Deputy Minister of Justice, Marcin Warchoł, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u574	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know if it's a matter of ignorance or mere manipulation. It's just not true. Art. 199 § 2 remains in this project and there is nothing more to discuss. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly!]] [[A voice from the room: Coincidence?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u575	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the above amendments, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 180, against - 226, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of point 7. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: Provocator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u576	High Izbo! This isn't a pedophilia bill. This is a bill that, like someone said, changes practically the entire Penal Code. There are actually only two records of pedophilia. Why are you afraid of a lifetime ban on working with children for those who commit these acts? Why? Our amendment is coming to this. Why? Haven't you seen the movie? Priests who work with children despite convictions? Why? I'll tell you why. Because you think that anyone who raises his hand to the Church raises his hand to the state. You don't care about Polish children. [[Applause]] For you, this doctrine is the most important thing. That's why these entries are missing in the bill. Your government has to go. That's the only condition. Your government must leave so you can fight pedophilia in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u577	Mr President, ask a question about the amendment. [[But don't disturb me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u578	Your government is in the way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u579	Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u580	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Those convicted of paedophilia should be banned from the law for life from working with children and this prohibition should be strictly respected. [[I'm talking to the president.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Why do you not want to include this rule in the bill when the rules are so tightened up in the Penal Code? This is what Poles and Poles expect. Mr. President! A few weeks ago at the Law and Justice Convention, you yelled from the speaker: "Stay away from our children."
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u581	Madam President, I would like to point out to you that the question should be addressed to the rapporteur or the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u582	If you want to prove that those weren't empty political words, vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u583	That's one more time for your attention. [[Voice from the room: What is this, someone is untouchable? What does that mean?]] [[Mr. Marshal, this is an exaggeration of what you're doing.]] The Deputy Minister of Justice, Marcin Warchoł, asks for the floor. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I spoke about and asked a question about the amendment, Marshal. Listen to what the envoy says, not...]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Act like a marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u584	Ladies and gentlemen! The Himalayas of hypocrisy, literally. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The mandatory life ban on working with children today is in the Penal Code. When did we bring him in? We introduced it when we entered the paedophile registry. It shall apply from 1 October 2017. [[Applause]] How did you vote? Let me remind you, you voted against. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: How many were detained?]] Against the Pedophile Register [[Applause]] And against mandatory, lifelong... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[How many did you keep?]] ...the ban on working with children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[The voice from the hall: frauds!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u585	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 185, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose a different wording of point 3. and in point 13. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club. [[The voice from the hall: liars, cheaters!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u586	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Himalayas of hypocrisy. [[The voice from the hall: frauds!]] You are introducing a bill in the back door, which even the Legislative Council at the premiere gave a negative opinion. [[Sit down.]] I have such a request for a representative of the government of Minister Jarosław Gowin. [[Not a pedophile weapon.]] Minister, I have a request for you to tell your colleague who's sitting behind you... [[The voice from the hall: frauds!]] ...and his government colleagues, so they don't insult you and all of us who have introduced a reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u587	Mr President, please ask questions about the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u588	In 2015, we voted with you on the amendment of the article. 102. Now, Minister Ziobro, once again lying from this pulpit...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u589	I would like to draw your attention again to asking you a question about article 3 of the amendment. [[What's up?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u590	...complains not only of us, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But also you, Minister, that you favored criminals. Explain it to him, or he's such a hypocrite... [[The voice from the hall: frauds!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u591	Mr President, because I will have to apply the rule of procedure of the article...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u592	...or he just doesn't understand anything. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: liars!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u593	This is the third time I've warned you and remember that I'm going to use the article. 175 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[The nerves are letting go.]] [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] [[Shame!]] [[Shame on you, Marshal of the Seym.]] Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Voice from the hall: The Member speaks, the Marshal listens.]] Madame, I am so sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will scream, I will advise you in the rule of law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: So what?]] Then pay attention. Then don't be surprised that you will be reported for punishment. [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] [[Voice from the room: How about a slow stoop?]] There you go, Mrs Dolniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u594	But it's been quiet. The provision which this amendment concerns gives more power to the prosecutor in court, not to the court which hosts this procedure. Why? Because the court will only be able to apply an extraordinary relaxation of the sentence at the request of the prosecutor. So, if there's no prosecutor's motion, the court will, even if it assesses that there are grounds for extraordinary relief, will not be able to do so. So where do we have the independence and independence of the court? Where do we have equal sides in our conduct? [[Voice from the courtroom: Change the courts.]] This provision, if you do not support the amendment, directly violates the equality of the parties and the independence of the court, because it is up to the court to decide whether or not to apply an exceptional relaxation of the penalty and not to be dependent on a prosecutor's request which may not make such a request. Ladies and gentlemen, as we change the law, let's do it honestly and correctly, not in a discretionary way, giving the prosecutor unlimited power. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Why do courts make such low judgments?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u595	Thank you. Deputy Minister of Justice Marcin Warchoł will speak. [[How many priests have been detained?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u596	We're talking about a little coroner's witness. This solution is conducive to the fact that the testimony of such a small witness is indeed taken into account, but not in a situation where he comes to court and shows that he is suddenly collaborating, giving his colleagues and deserves extraordinary relief. A witness like that doesn't deserve it. That's why the prosecutor's motion is important. He's the D.A. as the preparatory body, as you know best about this trial, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] which information is relevant. In light of the above... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Therefore, the preparatory investigation body shall be the prosecutor. [[Votes.]] The defendant can't come to court and extort, extort, even the kind of privilege that is extremely lenient... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...and we often deal with such situations. The defendant comes and says: I deserve an extraordinary relaxation of punishment. He's been working in an organized crime group, dealing drugs, committing a number of other very violent crimes, so he can't enjoy that kind of privilege. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u597	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 184, against - 232, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of point (a). d in point 31. Amendment 6 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u598	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's a good amendment. It extends the limitation period for criminal offences, so that it cannot take place before the injured minor is 40 years of age. But also, High Izbo, this is the continuation of the policy adopted by the Platform and the PSL, which they set out in the amendments to the Criminal Code of 24 October 2008 and the second of 20 February 2015. But the question is also: Why should all sex crimes involving a minor under 15 years of age be subject to limitations related to statute of limitations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u599	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u600	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We can discuss today the extension of the limitation period for criminal prosecutions, but it will only be declarations, it will be provisions in the code. What's important here is what's done. And what you're doing is embarrassing. President Kaczyński, you can ask your colleague, Minister Ziobra...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u601	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention... [[But stop paying attention.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u602	...what he did with the report revealed by the episcopate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u603	...to ask questions to the representatives of the applicants or to the representatives of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u604	Since March, Minister Ziobro has been well aware of nearly 0.5 thousand for 2 months. the victims of pedophiles exposed. [[Sit down.]] He hasn't done anything until today. That's what happens. This is a disgrace. You talk about respect for the victims today, and you're high-fives with Stanisław Piotrowicz. And that's your credit, Mr. Kaczyński. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u605	Mr President, I would like to point out to you once again that this is how you violate the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Mr. Marshal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u606	Only the secular commission can explain pedophilia in the Church. And that's what you're afraid of. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's a secular committee. [[Hey, hello!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u607	And this is, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u608	You're scared. You're scared. You are afraid of the Church because your banners hang on their fences, and in the parish halls you organize meetings. [[Voice from the hall: We fear God.]] And no one... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u609	Mr, Art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a says that if a Member's conduct violates the seriousness of the Sejm... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Stop it.]] [[You're the one who had to...]] ...will have to be warned. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And here I use this article because you, by attacking ad personam of some Members... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Really embarrassing.]] Especially since you didn't ask a question about the 4th amendment... [[Voice from the courtroom: Start being honorable.]] ...you were the only one making a statement. [[Shame.]] This is a repeated violation of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. [[Shame. Discredited.]] So in this mode, for this reason, I declare that you violated the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Voice from the courtroom: Start being a marshal again.]] [[You're a disgrace to the Sejm.]] At the moment, the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, is asking for the floor. [[Applause]] And Mr. Sławomir Nitras, once again, I would like you not to shout and insult people. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u610	I understand that Mr Boris Budka, in his habit, is manipulating... [[Voice from the room: How dare you?]] [[He insults the envoy.]] ...but I don't understand that he's so boldly embarrassed, and it's not so much in front of you, because he has no shame, [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] but in front of the whole of Poland. [[Ad personam.]] Because a student wouldn't get a promotion for another year of college... [[Voice from the hall: How many priests?]] ...if he had said on the exam what Mr Budek had just said here. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] He said that the Civic Platform had extended the statute of limitations during its reign. [[Voice from the room: How was the Ziobra's public prosecutor's exam?]] What's more, he was pulling out his boobs for decorations. [[Voice from the hall: How dare you do that?]] [[She'll have a souvenir of a lady.]] Well, any student can check that you've reduced the statute of limitations by five years... [[She'll have a souvenir.]] ...for all crimes, including paedophile crimes. It's all yours. You have no real shame about the facts. On the other hand, you have made one change, which was an expression of the implementation of the European Parliament directive, because you had to introduce it, not that you wanted to. This directive has commanded you, like all the countries of the European Union... [[Stop murdering yourself.]] ...to introduce a rule that a paedophile crime can't pass until the victim's 30 years old. But it's no longer your fault. Your credit for quoting me is this... [[The voice from the room: Your vein will break.]] ...that you've shortened in all other cases the statute of limitations for dangerous criminals, including paedophiles. [[Voice from the room: What did you do with the report...]] And it's all yours. [[Voice from the room: What did you do?]] That's point one. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What have you done for six months?]] And now, Mr Snapshot, who shows cynicism and manipulation and lies here... [[Voice from the hall: How many priests have you kept?]] [[Voice from the room: Ad personam.]] ...which characterize you because they are immanent to you maybe... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ...they fit you. Well, the facts are that. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Adama...]] Namely, the pseudo-notice he made at the D.A.'s office is not a notification. Well, you have to be able to read the Penal Code and the Penal Procedure Code. A notice of suspicion of a crime shall take place only if and if it indicates a likely event of reasonable reliability and evidence of the offence being committed. [[Voice from the room: Don't shout, you didn't do anything.]] If anybody puts in the statistics... [[This is an unbelievable report.]] ...and an extract from the statistical analysis in which there is no specified event, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] a specific event, a particular victim and a particular perpetrator, it doesn't make any notice, it just makes a hucpa. [[Voice from the Chamber: A notification shall be made in the matter.]] That's what you're specialists for. Well, the D.A.'s office got a report from the Episcopal Committee... [[What did you do?]] ...to which Mr Szłapka referred, and there are no facts, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] which would have the slightest effect that, in the period when the laws had entered into force to notify law enforcement of the fact that a paedophile crime was committed... [[Voice from the room: Minister, zero.]] ...this event has not been... this notification has not been made. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] But even better in all this is that Mr Snapshot... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] ...or Szapka, how do you... [[Voice from the hall: The whole of Poland!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u611	Minister, I think this is about Mr Myrcha. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Myrch!]] [[Voice from the room: You have to do it yourself!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u612	Oh, that's my deepest apologies to Mr Tramp. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr Myrch. Mr Myrch. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's not the point. That's not what's important. [[Sit down.]] Okay, Myrch. Mr. President, I'm sorry. [[The joy, the chatter in the hall]] [[Voice from the room: Don't embarrass yourself.]] Well, the Member demanded that he pursue for not knowing whether he was supposed to or not... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, because I made this notification, not Mr Myrch.]] ...in the period since 1990... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Nice to meet you. ...then the law which obliges the submission of denominations has been in force since July 2017... [[The President is pleased that the Minister is embarrassing himself here.]] ...is the result of the changes made by the Government of Law and Justice by President Andrzej Duda. We did what you didn't do for years. [[Voice from the hall: Honey for the president's heart.]] We're the ones who introduced a legal obligation to report a suspicion of a crime by people who have knowledge of it. [[The president's delighted.]] We're the ones who committed the punishment of anyone who has the knowledge to file a notice at the D.A.'s office. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] You didn't do anything about it. We'll always investigate, but when there's a prosecutor's prerogative... [[I'd have called an ambulance by now. It's gonna fall.]] ...not when you like it. If you would accept the philosophy that you are proposing here, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] it should be considered whether the cases of corruption among activists and Members of the Civic Platform, known to me, do not justify the initiation of a trashy investigation and the examination of whether all or a number of other activists have committed this crime. Well, this is not legal, it is not acceptable, and I will not initiate such investigations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u613	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: No!]] Who among your fellow Members... [[Voice from the room: I was mentioned by name.]] Mr President, please take your seat. [[Voice from the room: Hey! Clearly a corrigendum.]] [[The voice from the courtroom: But, marshal, my name was mentioned.]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Who among you is in favour of Amendments 4 and 6, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 403, against -4, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, I have been repeatedly summoned by the Minister.]] Take your seat, sir. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the letters c to e in point 70. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u614	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of a distinction between sexual intercourse and rape of a minor up to the age of 15, while introducing a type of qualified in sexual intercourse, is a serious mistake, as a result of which sexual intercourse with a young child may not be regarded as rape, and practically always is, taking into account the stage of the child's psychophysical development. Revision of the article. 197 in conjunction with Article. The 200th Penal Code is unthinkable. As a result, the court will have to assess the situation of children up to the age of seven in a special way. Minister, is there an amendment to the amendment already underway? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u615	Thank you. There's an MP's voice... [[Voice from the room: Sławomir Nitras.]] Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: PO-KO.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u616	It is with great sadness that I look at this debate. It seems to me that we need a VAR system in such a way that this debate can be conducted in an elementary way. [[Nothing offensive.]] We're talking about age here. Minister Ziobro just said he's missing the facts. He's missing the facts. The report says 382 priests molested, two are in prison - behind the news. So where's 380? Where's the 380 that the church report says about?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u617	Mr President, ask a question to Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u618	Almost 700 children. Mr. Marshal, 700 children. It's remorse, remorse. All of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u619	Mr President, I draw your attention. You're saying the wrong thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u620	You're asking the facts. [[Applause]] And I say, "These are children." And I ask, how many of these priests are in prison?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u621	Ask a question to Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u622	How many... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: How many doctors?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u623	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention once again. You're saying the wrong thing. [[These are facts...]] [[Applause]] Ask a question to Amendment 7. [[Member Sławomir Nitras puts a pair of children's shoes on the bench occupied by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a return... I declare that Mr Nitras has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Those are shoes. This is our symbol.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Applause]] [[Some Members chant: Shame! Disgraceful! Disgraceful!]] Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[A voice from the hall: Shame on you! Shame on you!]] [[Voice from the hall: Aren't you ashamed?]] Madam, ask the question. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: There are no conditions for public debate.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Please calm down the room. You have no control over the Sejm.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u624	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You've just compromised yourself all over the line. You said there were no facts in the report that the Polish Episcopate gave you. There are two very important facts: over 600 victims and over 300 perpetrators. If there are no facts there, then it is your duty as the Attorney General to simply establish these facts, not to move on to the agenda. [[Applause]] But you obviously have no intention of doing anything about it. You just can tell from this speaker that there are no facts. Another question, on behalf of Polish women: Why did you not include a new definition of rape, which in the 21st century is valid all over the world?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u625	Madam, ask a question to Amendment 7. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[She just asked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u626	How much longer... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish women as victims of rape... [[Voice from the room: Time has passed.]] ...will answer the humiliating question, why didn't they scream? How much longer? [[Voice from the room: Time.]] The victims of pedophilia are the same. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u627	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u628	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I checked, in the previous term, in 2013, a draft law on the prevention of sexual crime was sent to the Sejm. This project has been in the Sejm for quite a long time and only in 2015 did the Platform and PSL government reply: The project is not recommended for further legislative work. Why? Yeah, I checked. They were worried about criminal personal information. Dear Minister, I have a question: How many sex crimes could be avoided if such a register were created in 2013? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And you didn't notice that it also applies to criminals?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u629	Patrick Jak, Deputy Minister of Justice, is asking for the floor. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, sir, please leave the speaker. Mr President, I draw your attention. Please leave the podium and take your seat. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention again, because this is how you prevent me from going on. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u630	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Seym! [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[There's no mode.]] First of all, digression at the very beginning - if Mr Nitras comes out to this pulpit and calls for...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u631	Excuse me, Minister. Mrs Skowrońska and Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska! I urge you, ladies, because you are interfering with the proceedings. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] [[Voice from the room: They can do anything.]] Continue, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: Thank you very much. High Seym! If Mr Nitras comes out to this pulpit and calls for the authority of the High House to be preserved... [[You're like the Russian ambassador.]] ...I think we all see that no one destroys the authority of the High House as Mr Nitras does. [[Applause]] Unless, High Sejm, we consider it a standard thing that builds the estimation of the High House, throwing shoes at the leader of our United Right. Does that build an estimate of the High House? [[You came with a cockroach.]] High Seym! It's just that... Now let's move on to substantive arguments. You go out to that pulpit and ask the question: Why is it that only two priests are currently in prison? And, High Sejm, this is a very good question, which is worth asking your colleagues from the judges' elites. [[Applause]] Now let us compare populism with data. [[Where's your cockroach?]] Well, it turns out that 54% of pedophilia penalties are penalties imposed by your fellow judges. So? [[Applause]] [[Some Members are hitting their desks and chanting: Disgrace! Disgraceful! Disgraceful!]] High Seym! In any case, let us give the voice to the previous KRS, i.e. the judges' elites, with whom people from the PO-KO are identified. Besides, we all saw them meet at the Reader together. It's a pity they didn't have a debate just about how your colleagues would judge or treat... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Debates about how your friends treated the children you talk about so often. [[Voice from the room: What did you do?]] And now let's read the KRS' opinions on the proposals to build new tools that will defend children. What did the old KRS say? I quote the opinion: this type of crime is certainly not a growing problem, and that is why we have a negative opinion. So what? This pedophilia is a growing problem, isn't it? Ask this question to your fellow judges. [[Applause]] High Seym! Because it is indeed as one of the Members of the Civic Platform said today. I believe that politicians or political parties should be judged by what they do and not by what they say. So let's be calm about who did what about it. Well, in 2013, when the Platform is still in power, a project is sent to the High House to create a police threat map, places where paedophile crimes occur, to increase the penalties for the crimes of rape of minors, to create an open record of paedophiles. And finally, there's a project about not working with children for people who are convicted of these crimes. And now I am. A few days ago, the leader of the Civic Platform goes out and organizes a press conference, and he says yes, I quote: you have to introduce a ruthless ban on working with children, with young people, for convicted persons. That's what he said. Okay, now let's see what the Platform did in 2014 when it ruled. Exactly the same project went to the Sejm, High Izbo. The opinion was directed to this project by Ewa Kopacz. It's from the Civic Platform, isn't it? Good. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[From the coalition.]] And he writes like this... You want a ban on working with kids? And it says, "Think about it." [[Read the whole thing. Don't manipulate me. Just read the whole thing.]] I quote: it must also be considered in the article. 11 the design of the prohibition on the pursuit of a profession or the taking of activities which involve contact with a minor and the relation of that prohibition to criminal measures decided on the basis of the criminal-material rules already in force. In conclusion, the proposal is not recommended for further legislative work. So? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Read the whole thing.]] [[Some Members are hitting their desks and chanting: Disgrace! Disgraceful! Disgraceful!]] High Seym! In 2013, when the Civic Platform rules, projects to increase paedophilia penalties, to create a police hazard map, to register paedophiles, to ban professions that connect with the possibility of contact with minors, with children. And what does the Platform do? He's against it. And today you go out on the floor and say, "What are you doing? [[In 2010, we tightened the penalty times three.]] If you want to ask that question, it's a very good question. Just ask them and look in the mirror. [[Applause]] But, High Seym, that's not all. Of course, the Law and Justice and Solidarna Polska are very consistent and the projects they submitted in opposition also after they came to power. And these are exactly the same designs. Pedophile registry, tightening up criminal law, ban on the pursuit of professions that involve the possibility of contacting minors. So? These projects go to the Sejm. And how is the PO-KO coalition mentioned here? [[How many priests have you locked up? How many paedophile priests have you locked up?]] But first, before we remind you of this - because, ladies and gentlemen, the vote speaks for itself - let us give the vote for a moment to the elites you have chosen, who have held important public offices. And now I am. What were those elites worried about? [[Don't manipulate me.]] Let's give them their vote now. For example, an ombudsman. [[How many pedophiles have you locked up?]] High Seym! What does the Ombudsman say when we say it is important to protect children? [[And you guys let go and raped...]] Of course, he writes skeptically: because it is about the danger of life and health of those responsible for their stigmatization in society. What's that? So who were you worried about? Instead of worrying about children, you were worried about those who committed crimes. [[Voice from the room: Yes, of course.]] That's when... So? [[Some Members are hitting their desks and chanting: Disgrace! Disgraceful! Disgraceful!]] More. You want more? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] High Seym! I know why you're so nervous. [[You're nervous.]] Because on the level of populism you can say anything, but when we see what you wrote, when you could do something, it is really a disgrace. [[Sit down.]] Let us cast the first vote, the President of the Supreme Court, who then gave an opinion on these projects. What did she say? She stated: The entry into force of the proposed law could therefore create a real threat to the life or health of persons covered by the public register. So care for the children or care for the perpetrators? Care for the perpetrators again. Congratulations. [[Applause]] High Seym! There's a vote at last. And how do you act when you vote on these projects? How does the Civic Platform behave, Modern? How are you guys acting? You are abstaining. Today we can compile the data calmly. On the one hand, when we were in the opposition and we were reporting child protection projects, you were rejecting them all, and when we brought them back, as we ruled, you either torpedoed or abstained or you were against it. [[Write a good bill.]] And today you are brazenly going out into the pulpit and asking what has been done. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[How insolent.]] Once again I would like to ask, High Sejm: How can Poland be a strong state when half of the pedophilia penalty is suspended? How can Poland be a strong country? [[Mr. Marshal, is this for business? Do you hear that?]] Therefore, High Sejm: If you want to organise the next electoral convention, it is worth inviting your colleagues from the Free Courts Association, judges, etc. And it's worth confessing just how you acted when you could help your children. [[Applause]] High Seym! What I'm trying to say is, the media has even written us unkind. Here you go, you can see this, High Sejm. They wrote that the pedophile register - parents were very grateful - saved the children, because parents discovered that a pedophile was employed in a community center. That's what happened, High Sejm many times. And now imagine how many children could be saved if we put in that ledger when you were in charge. And we've been reporting a project like this. I want you to do a conscience check. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo! Bravo!]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[No, Mr. Marshal, I have the right to speak before the vote.]] Who among you is in favour of the 7th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button... [[I have the right to speak in correction mode because I've been lied about.]] Mr President, please don't disturb me. [[I'm asking for a vote in corrigendum mode.]] [[Do you know what a correction is?]] I repeat the question. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] [[I demand a voice in corrigendum mode.]] [[Do you know what a correction is?]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 412, 1 against, 2 Members abstained. [[You're breaking the rules. I demand a voice in corrigendum mode.]] [[Sit down.]] [[Have a drink.]] [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] Once again, I would like to draw Mr Nitras' attention in the Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a. Your behavior violates the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Mr. Marshal, please.]] I'm calling a five-minute break. And I call the Senior Convention in the dark living room. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voices from the hall: Kara! Kara!]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 18 hours 21 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 28 of the agenda. High Seym! I'd like to inform you that at the Seniors' Convention, I've informed you that the way you ask questions... [[You're protecting Kaczynski.]] ...and the way in which statements, also offensive, are formulated, have a very negative impact on the quality of the debate. [[Voice from the room: They insult you.]] I announced - the marshal has the right - that I will not allow Members to ask questions during... [[Scandal!]] ...votes on the amendments tabled. Club representatives will be able to ask one question before voting on the entire bill. We can process, right? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the room: What are you afraid of?]] [[What are you afraid of, Marshal?]] [[Voice from the room: Questions about the scandal?]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What else could you expect from you under such circumstances?]] In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete point 71. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. For - 285, against - 2, the 112 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Just don't tell anyone. Don't let anyone tell you.]] In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 84a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. [[The absence of a question does not mean that there is no right to rectify it.]] We're voting. Who of you is adopting the 9th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For -411, against -1, holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[I've been asked a question.]] In the 10th amendment, applicants propose to add point 84b. Amendment 25 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 10 and 25, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 135, against - 253, holding off on 29. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 11th amendment, the applicant proposes a different wording of point 89. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 11, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 416, against -1, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[The voice from the room: You want to deal with a situation.]] [[It's sad.]] In the 16th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 6a. [[Just don't tell anyone, yeah.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't tell anyone.]] The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 164, against - 249, two Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 11a. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. [[Is there a doctor in the O.R.?]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 20th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 164, against - 252, two Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Members of the Parliament have asked questions before voting on the whole of the bill. I address both your Members and your ministers... [[Stop censoring us.]] ...to answer specific questions, to refer to a specific bill... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Lord will instruct people.]] ...and don't raise personal issues that don't concern her. [[There's no pedophilia.]] The question is asked by Michał Kaminski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u632	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I ask a question, I think it is worth saying the words that should be said in this House. I am convinced that there is no one in this House who would like to be lenient with criminals who have committed pedophilia, whether on the left, on the right or in the middle of this House. [[Applause]] [[And I'm having second thoughts.]] I am convinced that each of us has the same negative attitude towards this practice. Dear colleagues! If today this issue takes on a political dimension and creates such great emotions, it is because we are dealing in Poland with an alliance of the Church and one of the political parties. [[Voice from the room: Uh-huh.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] Dear colleagues! Listen to what I'm trying to say. Then the sins of the Church become your sins, and your sins become the sins of the Church. This shouldn't have happened. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If there was no alliance today, we could talk without these political emotions. [[Voice from the room: Question.]] The question is, why the right thing... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] [[You've got your buddies' Bear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u633	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u634	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, as always... [[Will there be a quote?]] ...censoring the Parliament of the Republic of Poland. That's how you sign up for the annals of our parliament's history. I would like to tell you that it has not made any sense to proceed with this act since the beginning. Your analyses, diagnoses, amendments submitted here made no sense, because this law is inscribed in the logic of the revolution of Jarosław Kaczyński, in the state of PiS, in the totalitarian state, in the authoritarian state, in the country which censors artists... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Not on the subject.]] ...in a country where the chief is the most important, not the public, Mr. President. [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] You laugh very nicely until you do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u635	Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Now! But I must point out to Mr Mieszkowski that... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Don't pay any attention to anyone else.]] ...you didn't ask questions about this bill. [[A little classy.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u636	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm devastated and embarrassed by today's debate. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] We're talking about a situation that's ruining people's lives. People who are victims of paedophile priests wake up every morning and fall asleep with trauma. [[What they're interested in.]] I'm embarrassed because where were you when Marek Lisiński was in the Seym four times? [[What about the other pedophiles?]] I'm talking to all political options. [[Voice from the room: Question.]] Why did Grzegorz Schetyna think pedophilia was a problem and a problem? [[It is.]] And Marek Lisiński wrote an appeal a few hours ago. I'll read... [[Voice from the room: Question.]] [[Voice from the room: These are questions.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...a few sentences: I appeal to politicians of all political parties... [[They're not interested.]] ...about not taking advantage of the tragedy of the children of the victims of paedophiles... [[Voice from the room: Question.]] ...to the current political game. [[That's right, my fellow Member.]] We know that election time is a time of increased action, but due to the care of the victims and the effective exercise of responsibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The perpetrators are asked not to multiply... [[Voices from the room: Time.]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u637	Thank you, Member. I draw your attention and appeal to everyone... [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] ...to ask questions, not make statements. [[Voice from the hall: futile appeals.]] Please speak with Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u638	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No questions. If you don't tell anyone... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...so that it is not known what is happening in some parishes or in some bishops' palaces. [[Why? Did you sit there?]] This bill doesn't solve anything. Only a state inquiry committee that can question a bishop, a priest who has access to all the materials, has a chance to explain this matter, [[Applause]] He has a chance to help the Church purify itself. It's just the state's committee of inquiry. Why? Because prosecutors today heard from their boss, the Attorney General, that even their report, which speaks of pedophilia in the Church, where 382 cases of pedophile priests are reported... What does Minister Ziobro say? There are no facts. Guys, knock yourselves in the head. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] This is an outrage. That's your approach to this. You don't want to explain this, you just want to smoke and protect the paedophiles and their paedophiles, those who moved them from parish to parish, because you have an alliance with the Church... [[Voice from the room: Home.]] ...with the part of the Church that plays politics with you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u639	Thank you, sir. Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation, has the floor. [[Some Members keep signs with inscriptions: Stop pedophilia. The Commission immediately.]] Again, I would like to draw attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the questioning. [[Some Members get up and chant: Commission! Commission! Commission!]] [[Sit down!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that in this way you are violating the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, specifically Article. 10 point 13, which says that in the area of the Sejm, if any props can be presented, only with the consent of the Marshal of the Sejm. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But it's you...]] This is what Marshal No. 1 of the Sejm of January 9, 2008, from the time when... [[Voice from the hall: Don't embarrass yourself, man.]] ...your representative was a Marshal of the Sejm... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[But in this Seym, he's a marshal...]] ...in art. 64 of this order - I remind you, Order No 1 of 9 January 2008 - is that it is prohibited to bring into the Chamber of the Sejm, in the cockroaches and in the gallery of objects which may be used to disturb the peace or disorder or the seriousness of the Sejm. At the moment, I say to you that those Members who hold these tables will later be mentioned by name and by name, have violated the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: We have documented, we lend.]] I urge you to remove these tables immediately. [[Your behavior violates the seriousness of the Sejm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in that case, we shall vote on the entire bill. [[Some Members chant: Commission! Commission! Commission!]] [[I want to hold on too. Me too, for the camera.]] I won't allow any more questions. [[Mr. Marshal, what are you... this is a scandal...]] Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3466, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 269 Members voted. Za- 263, against-three, holding off on three. The Sejm passed a law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. [[Touchdown, applause]] At the moment, the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, is asking for the floor. [[We're leaving!]] [[Some Members leave the room]] [[Shame. They're getting away.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u640	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Over 40% judgments for the sexual exploitation of children in Poland are suspended sentences. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Once the mother of one of the children who was raped, after being suspended, when she was released from court, said that she also felt almost raped again, but by the state apparatus, by the court which gave the sentence allowing the paedophile to laugh at this child... [[Voice from the hall: Wielkopolski...]] ...and a terrible act, a disgraceful act that this paedophile has committed. [[You didn't do anything...]] Well, there was a chance to change this criminal policy. When the Government of Law and Justice prepared and presented a draft Penal Code in 2007, we already proposed a radical tightening of paedophile penalties. Even then, we offered criminal measures that gave additional weapons to courts and prosecutors to fight pedophilia effectively. Even then we offered additional solutions in the general section of the Penal Code, which would cause victims, such as children shown in the film by the Sekielski brothers, or victims of one of the priests... Perhaps they would not be victims. It was there that the case of a priest who was convicted in 2006 was shown, but unfortunately the sentence was so mild that he could later, in 2012, under the rule of the Civic Platform, commit crimes again, because the punishment was not severe enough. [[A voice from the hall: shame, shame!]] We want to combine inevitability with harshness. We want the perpetrators to be detected and we want the perpetrators to be severely punished. We want to give hope to the victims and their parents, who will be able to rely on a fair judgment, and will be able to rely on a sense of security and protection from perpetrators who can often laugh at the judgments they face, and do not feel the fear of returning to the way of crime. That can and must be changed. The Civic Platform, as Deputy Minister Patrick Jak spoke about, consistently, when she had the opportunity, has always voted against tightening pedophilia penalties. [[Applause]] She has always advocated solutions that were milder to paedophiles than what we proposed as governing in 2007 as an opposition to the rule of the Civic Platform, and similarly now during our reign. I would like to remind you that the first project submitted by the Government of Law and Justice, the criminal law project, was the project of extending the period of statute of limitations for paedophiles, which was shortened by the Civic Platform. The platform has consistently voted against. She voted against the pedophile registry. She has done nothing to ensure that those who have reliable information about the crime bear the penalty for not informing them of this crime. I can assure you, also as the Attorney General, that in any case, in any case, when reliable information is received by the prosecution indicating that anyone, having reliable information about the suspicion of a paedophile crime, has failed to comply with the obligation to report the crime... [[The Episcopalian had it.]] ...will be held liable for it, whoever it is, [[Applause]] any function I want him to do it. There won't be a concession fee for anyone. But we're not going to participate in this hucklehead either. We will not participate in this show, which at the expense of children wants to organize today's total opposition. Because unfortunately, or it can be said, unfortunately, against the position of experts of the Civic Platform, criminal law does not work and cannot act backwards. All these cases, the appalling cases that we find out about, the failure to report a pedophilia crime committed, when criminal law did not prosecute such crimes when it did not consider them to be criminal acts, unfortunately cannot be the basis for the prosecution's actions. And don't accuse the prosecution of demagogically failing to act against facts that weren't punished at the time. You've had a very long chance to bring in punishment for not knowing about a pedophilia crime. You had a chance to pursue those who didn't denunciate paedophiles, but you had to bring that kind of order into the Penal Code during your long reigns. You didn't do it, and today you're running out of the room, and you don't want to listen to arguments, because all you can do is scream and throw insects. Ladies and gentlemen! There have also been acts in the Catholic Church, which are a very grim card, which are disgraceful behaviours of individuals who committed crimes. In any case, where there is no limitation, criminal law should be applied with all severity. Criminal law should brand those who committed such acts. At the same time, it is important to remember that today the opposition is not about people who have been harmed by paedophiles. They're after something else, they're after a political war, they're about moving these disgraceful events that deserve the harshest punishment. That is why we propose tightening the penalties for such crimes, including for possible perpetrators in the future - paedophile priests, if such were to be found. They want to transfer these actions to all priests, to the whole Church, that's their goal. This is about politics. [[Applause]] Not the truth. They're not after the victims. If they wanted victims, they would consistently support our proposals to fight paedophile criminals in 2007, 2013 or 2015 or now, during our governments. They were against each time, each time they stood on the side of pedophiles and against their victims. I hope that this vote will be very meaningful too. It is through these changes in the Penal Code that it will be possible to isolate paedophile criminals for many years in the future. In prison, they won't be able to commit crimes. We know from forensic research that pedophilia is a kind of crime that gives rise to a much greater tendency to return to crime. That's why it's obvious that a severe punishment, a long-term prison sentence, protects children, protects future victims. Back to crimes found effectively, 100%, pedophiles are very high. Therefore, inevitability is not enough, but strictness is also needed. These two elements go hand in hand and we want to do so - inevitably and harshly, as far as possible. [[Applause]] We're gonna burn pedophilia with all ruthlessness, iron, wherever she is. This is demonstrated by our action in the area of changes in criminal law. Actions speak for us. Wherever there's evidence, wherever the law allows, the prosecution will go after paedophile criminals from all groups of society, all professions, without distinction, [[Applause]] Because everyone in front of the law should be equal. And those on whom there is a special responsibility to take care of the child, due to the changes that we make, teachers, priests, educators, coaches will have a much more severe criminal responsibility, many times more severe than it has been to this day. Thanks to the changes that we have prepared, and thanks to the changes that the Sejm has approved, and thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Come on, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u641	Thank you, Minister. Let me remind you that we voted to adopt the Penal Code Act and some other laws in their entirety. Let me remind you that 269 Members voted. There were 263 votes against, 3 abstentions. I would like to inform the High House once again that the names of the Members who kept unauthorized props, i.e. Without my permission to bring them into the O.R., they'll be handed over after viewing the television footage. They will be held liable by the rules of procedure. [[Applause]] We would like to refer to item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the National Property Resources Act and some other laws. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print No 3435. The committees shall present the conclusions of the minorities on which the Sejm will vote in the first place. I would like to inform you that minority 9 and 10 applications have been withdrawn by the applicant. Minority requests from 1 to 10 have been submitted to Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the National Property Resources Act. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose to add aa. This proposal is accompanied by proposals: 2nd, 3rd and 5th. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u642	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! You know very well that the Housing+, or National Property Resources Act, has proved to be a complete failure. [[Applause]] Now you are introducing an amendment that introduces even greater chaos as regards this subject, and in addition to the fact that you have introduced institutional leases in the KZN Act, i.e. the possibility of throwing people on the pavement, this is where you want to release rents, which is to introduce commercial rent. So it's not true what you're telling people it's gonna be housing with a lower rent for the poorer. These will be expensive apartments only for richer people, and KZN will be one great developer with the help of centralization of central government over state land. This is a fraud against people who were hoping for cheap apartments, counted and counted, because you deceived them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u643	Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor. You're quitting. Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u644	Mr. Marshal! What's that supposed to mean? You don't allow marshals to ask questions, you don't allow marshals to vote... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u645	Mr President, please ask questions, not... Don't take the floor about what you like, just ask a specific question about the minority proposal. [[He's asking questions.]] [[Voice from the room: But he asks a question.]] Mr President, I would like to point out to you once again that in this way... [[This is an outrage!]] ...injuring the organs of the Sejm, you violate the seriousness of the Sejm. Step out of the podium, please. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Don't embarrass yourself, Marshal.]] Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u646	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I strongly protest against closing my mouth to Members of the opposition. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I strongly protest that we have not been allowed to speak. This is unbelievable, this situation did not take place in this Seym. I hope it never happens again. [[Voice from the room: How could she not?]] [[Mr. Marshal promised, he promised.]] [[He promised!]] Mr. Marshal! I am really asking you, and I am proposing to you, that we put forward a motion for a resummation of the vote in order to once again hold a debate on this last point, a vote on the whole, because this is incredible: we have been denied the opportunity to comment on the whole of a very important law which has... [[Democracy has been violated.]] The principles of democracy have been violated, not just the seriousness of the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u647	Ladies and gentlemen, please read the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm carefully. In question mode, the Marshal of the Sejm may allow Members to ask questions, but he doesn't have to... [[Mr. Marshal, at the Convention meeting...]] [[And it was. Gentlemen in your previous terms, you were the same.]] So I've announced to you that I won't allow questions when the questions aren't about the subject and rather when the questioners behave in such a way as to introduce obstruction. [[What are you talking about?]] [[Do you want to make enemies?]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: You have to change the marshal.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of accepting minority proposals from 1 to 3 and 5, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. For - 156, against - 232, with a hold of 14. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 4th minority proposal, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of Articles 17 to 20 and not to add Article. 18a. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u648	Ladies and gentlemen! The paragraph after the paragraph of this amendment is actually all to the detriment of future tenants. All you want to do is get the residents and the Treasury out of the area even more, as well as fool the people who are waiting for the apartments. [[Applause]] This amendment refers to the regulated rent, the rent that was to be regulated in the housing + for the poorer, while you want to introduce the commercial rent here. [[This is outrageous!]] Therefore, our amendment proposes to delete this provision so that the rent remains limited, regulated. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Like Janosik.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u649	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 4th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. For - 158, against - 230, with 16. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 54. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u650	These records are crazy, and that is why in our amendment we propose to delete them. They say that if KZN takes over the ruthless territory from the Military Property Agency or KOWR, it can sell it to anyone, leaving 10% to itself. Their surface. Do you have any idea what this could lead to? These trainings are needed by these two agencies. The lack of them can prevent them from doing their business, which is precisely what it is - agencies were created mainly for the purpose of trading real estate. They will fall, and KZN will sell the land and collect 10%. It's a complete pathology. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[There's still gonna be corruption.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u651	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 6th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 154, against - 233, 16. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th minority application, applicants shall propose a different wording of the following Article. 62a. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 7th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. For - 154, against - 228, the 15. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 8th minority proposal, applicants propose not to repeal Chapter 7. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u652	Ladies and gentlemen! This record is already completely curiosable. Do you know what he's bringing in? National Property Resources, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] which takes over our state land, will be able to sell on the free market 50% built apartments. We're a super developer. Similar people functioned for communes. It is absolutely commune come back. This was the economy of the area and the construction of apartments in the times of the commune. I see you enjoyed it very much, and you're still enjoying it, and you're back to that. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And corruption will be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u653	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 8th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - 162, against - 230, holding 13. The Sejm's motion is denied. The whole bill. Member of Margaret Chmiel, Civic Platform Club. Mrs. Member! I'm asking you not to make any comments. In accordance with the rules of procedure, ask a question. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Mr Marshal, please...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u654	Mr. Marshal! I wouldn't like to give them... [[But this is the Seym, not kindergarten.]] ...then you beat me a little bit out of the panthal that you couldn't ask questions. Since you're so kind and you've restored the possibility of asking questions, I'd like to ask you one question. Why did you want to leave the market economy model, which has good, healthy rules, and return to the economic model from the times of the Polish People's Republic? At that time the housing economy was conducted exactly this way. This is how housing was built in the times of the Polish People's Republic. You want to go back to that, although you know perfectly well that living + is a program that you've fooled the residents with. People were waiting for these apartments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] You didn't want to go back to the well-functioning MdM program, because everything that was good in the previous government is measuring you. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe you don't know yet that housing can only be built. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Bravo.]] [[What's this? The height of arrogance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u655	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u656	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, this is the second law, which should first come to the joint committee of government and government, and was not discussed there. The Polish government has broken the law again in this case. Second thing. Minister, this project entered the Sejm and was examined on the committee in fact thanks to the Legislative Office. It saved your skin because the project was red from corrections and comments. Ladies and gentlemen, the marshal should grant the lawyers working on this bill bonuses and give them a new set of flamastras, because the quality of the law is unfortunately getting worse. [[Applause]] [[That's how it's painted.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u657	I didn't hear the question. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u658	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the honourable Members of the law and justice not to give in to their own propaganda. Don't give in to your own propaganda. The Living+ programme did not work and did not have the right to act, as even experts wrote in the explanatory memorandum to this law. He had no right. [[Applause]] act because of the solutions you have adopted. The housing+ programme, which Prime Minister Szydło described as the most important one, which was supposed to drag the economy and provide the Poles with an apartment, is simply a spectacular failure. This is the greatest failure of law and justice. You didn't make it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal to you. I understand that you would like to introduce something new, but perhaps the time has come - I am directing these words to the Minister - to understand that perhaps it would be better to quietly withdraw from our own proposals that are not working and return to good practice? You can even announce your success, but go back to the old solutions that guaranteed and provided hundreds of thousands of new apartments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They came true. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u659	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development, Artur Soboń, asks for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u660	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to be specific: I'm going to give you specific numbers. In Gdynia on ul. We're about to give up more apartments as part of the "Housing+" program. [[Private investor.]] These are the apartments that are about to be settled in. The cost of such an apartment, a 60-metre apartment, is today for the tenant, if after 30 years he wants to come to the property, 23 PLN 10 per meter, which means 1386 PLN per month. [[Tell me the truth.]] As part of the payments that we have adopted in this House, this family that will live in this apartment... [[Voice from the room: What apartment?]] ...will receive a fee of PLN 435. So after 30 years this Polish family, who will live in this apartment, will own this apartment for 420 thousand. zł. There's a developer building next to the apartment. The developer also sells his apartments. Suppose a family like this, so she can buy an apartment, takes a mortgage. This mortgage takes into the bank in Polish zlotys. Well, let's figure out this kind of credit: 4.52, WIBOR plus margin, and 20%. own contribution. For 30 years of property investigation, this family will pay exactly 565 thousand. zł. This is about 1/4 more than the apartment from the apartment+. These are two blocks side by side. That's 25%. The difference is that we introduce competition and give opportunities to those who do not have a chance at mortgage credit. It hurts you the most. You'd rather have that developer next door make 25%. more, and this family would pay more for the apartment. [[Voice from the room: What nonsense are you talking about? You're full of shit.]] That's why it's a living+. That's a specific number, that's the data... [[Voice from the hall: How many of these apartments are there?]] ...these are the specific prices of access to the property of the apartment in Gdynia. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] That's the difference. We're selling this apartment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 25% It's cheaper. This amendment of the Act will allow for this map, with which if you really want to know and find out where these investments are implemented under the [[Voice from the room: Well, where?]] [[Voice from the room: in Biała Podlaskia.]] I invite you, sir. There's a map in the old smoking shop, you can take it from the table, and you'll see at what stage in each city you're investing under the Living+ program. [[Only people can't see them.]] After the amendment of this law, 63 thousand will arrive. Apartments... [[It's a bust.]] ...in subsequent locations on the land of the National Property Resources... [[When?]] ...on the grounds of the Treasury. [[You've already built $3 million.]] It would be a sin of the state not to use the resources that you have to build cheaper to give those who today have no chance to live. And this will be an instrument that will work smoothly, because it will allow by working with PFR Real Estate to carry out further housing projects by 25% cheaper than projects on the market, as I showed on specific data from Gdynia. [[In areas where people don't want to live. Great.]] This law, this amendment, also introduces a wider range of rent subsidies, introduces a guarantee for municipal tenants. Finally, this bill will make it easier for the local authorities to issue their patronage certificates and they will be issued more quickly. And where local governments haven't approved a bonus so far, and there are a lot of such local governments, we introduce 99 percent discounts for those who are in the most difficult material situation: for families with disabled people, for large families. [[Applause]] They're all gonna get a 99-percent relief from abpropriation, because it's something that's the duty of the state. Where the self-government does not fulfil these obligations, the State shall enter, introducing appropriate discounts, appropriate discounts. This law is very beneficial and for local governments, because it improves procedures, and for citizens, because citizens get cheaper apartments, they get competition in the market, they get more subsidies... [[But these apartments are gone, man.]] ...and they'll get very good terms of patronage... [[Never a saint.]] ...so that Poles finally become owners not only of their apartments, but also of the land under these apartments. The point is to have this patronage that we introduced on January 1st this year... [[Voice from the room: Where are they?]] [[On paper.]] ...was implemented efficiently by all local authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u661	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[I have a corrigendum.]] Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act No 3435, please raise your hand and press the button. [[Objection.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - 232, against - 156, with a hold of 17. The Sejm passed a law amending the National Property Resources Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3462-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u662	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honored to present to you the fruit of the work of the Health Commission today. The Commission has been working on a government bill amending the Law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws. One amendment was tabled during the second reading. During the work, the committee rejected this amendment. The Commission recommends that the whole law be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u663	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's print number 3462. We are voting first on the amendment tabled in the additional report. The amendment tabled concerns Article. 1 point 1 of the draft law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The applicants shall propose a different wording of point (a) therein. b. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u664	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three months ago, on February 21, a law was passed that introduced something unimaginable, or double punishment for the same thing. Already the old Roman rule said you don't punish twice for the same thing. Nevertheless, the Minister for Health introduced such a provision. It turned out that it was promised after the bill was passed, 3 months ago, and only now, in super-express mode, without any public consultation, it is repaired, but it is on this principle: the peasant was introduced into the house five goats, now he moves out three, two are left behind. It turns out that this double punishment is withdrawn due to three conditions, but due to two - no. Do you know what the effect of this bill is now being corrected? That the doctors he's going to be threatening, and the conditions are unclear... Patients will be given 100% of their medications. Pay-per-view. Profit for the NFZ? Of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But the patients will come to your parliamentary offices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u665	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. Za - 176, against - 229, with a hold of 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The whole bill. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u666	Thank you, Marshal. You know that the whole drug market per year is about 35 billion PLN, of which 10% For 3.5 billion, it's sold abroad. Half of it's illegally exported. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Did you know that Polish pharmacies lack drugs? Did you know that 16 million patients left the window? [[It's for Minister Arłukowicz.]] Your government, your Minister of Health, does not think about how to look for money, how to prevent the escape of medicines, how to prevent this dangerous problem for Polish patients. What's he looking for? Punishment for doctors. He thinks the doctor's punishment will heal? For illegal exports you have imposed PLN 67 million in fines in the last time, you should have 900. How much do you think your government pulled out of this? Zero. [[Voice from the room: What about yours?]] That's looking for money in the pockets of doctors you've put too much work on. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[The Member is not finished yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u667	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Maciejewki, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 3462, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - 261, against - 127, with a hold of 17. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Refund Act on Medicines, Foods for Special Nutritional Use and Medical Devices and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3463-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to present this report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u668	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I submit an additional report on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices and certain other laws, print No 3309. At its 81st meeting on 16 May 2019, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3463 to the Health Commission to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. Three amendments have been tabled, of which amendments 1 and 2 must be voted together. The Health Commission, after considering the amendments at its meeting today, asks that the amendments tabled be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u669	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you, it's print number 3463. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. 38 Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices, applicants propose a new wording of the added paragraph. 6c point 2. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u670	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I hear this bill is designed to simplify patients' access to medical devices. Both doctors, patients and healthcare providers expect this bill. I ask you to explain why you are avoiding the record that obliges the Minister to make simplified prints that grant these medical devices. Minister! Is it true that you submitted for consultation pseudo-simplified printing, because previously the prints were made up of 2 pages, now, after your wonderful bill, there are 4 pages. To travesty the famous saying, I would like to ask: Are you trying to tell us that you are simplifying through complexity or shortening by extension? Please answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u671	The Minister wants to answer? Deputy Minister of Health Janusz Cieszyński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u672	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! No, we're not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u673	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 176, against - 227, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 6 The Law amending the applicant proposes that Article. 2 and 3 entered into force 14 days after the publication of the law. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Waldek, Waldek.]] 400 Members voted. For - 163, against - 224, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u674	Minister! [[Game in the O.R.]] Maybe you can calm down, Marshal, the room. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister, as always, you've made a legislative mess. In this bill, which talks about drug refunds, you put in a note about funding the SORs. Minister, people are dying in the S.R. Stop faking it. Take real care of the reform of the S.R.s, because today people are waiting 12 hours to get to the doctor, and they're dying at the S.R.s. What you're doing is fiction. Minister, we're gonna put in that record and we're gonna do our project where the patient gets to the doctor in 60 minutes to get... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Is that funny? Doctor, do you find it funny that patients die at the E.R.? [[No, no.]] Congratulations, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u675	Mr President, ask a question about the bill. [[Voice from the room: This is about the bill.]] We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 3463, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. For -394, against -3, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Refund Act on medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Postal Law (Prints Nos 3426 and 3432). I'm asking Mr. Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u676	On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I recommend respect for the efforts of the Senate and the adoption of the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u677	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In its amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 34th Postal Law Act. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the Senate amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. It was three against-- 400, he's holding off on one. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the law amending the Postal Law Act. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Police and certain other laws (prints Nos 3428 and 3453). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u678	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate has examined the law amending the Police Act and some other laws. I will not refer to it again, but I will remind you that it is implementing one of the petitions that has been sent to the Senate. These solutions were adopted by the Sejm. The Senate proposes that four amendments be adopted. Three of them, 1st, 2nd and 3rd, are amendments clarifying the content of the previously adopted Parliamentary Regulation, the 4th amendment being editorial. They were all considered by the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee. The Commission recommends that all four amendments be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u679	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 3 The Senate proposes to amend point 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. In - 6, against - 398, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes to amend point 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. In -2, against - 397, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 7 The Senate proposes to amend point 3. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 394 Members voted. For -1, against -393, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 10. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. No-one, everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Police Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Polish Charter Act (prints 3427 and 3442). I ask Mrs Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u680	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Communication with Poles Abroad at its meeting on 14 May considered three amendments to the Senate. The first amendment is editorial. Amendment 2 reduces the time taken by the Internal Security Agency on applicants for the Polish Charter. Amendment 3 guarantees continuity of proceedings initiated and not completed by the entry into force of the Act. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u681	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Polish Charter Act. In the first amendment to Article. 2 The Senate proposes in paragraph 2. 2 drafting amendments and repeal of paragraph 2. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 19a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u682	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When it comes to the Polish Charter, it is impossible not to mention Poles in Lithuania who had their march on 4 May - a great march of Polishness. 10 grand was marching. Poles from Vilnius, ladies and gentlemen, marched and celebrated the 30th anniversary The Union of Poles in Lithuania. 800 people at the Polish Union in Lithuania. Do you want to know how many representatives of the Polish Sejm? One. I was alone. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] There was no one. From the Marshal of the Sejm there was no one, from the Marshal of the Senate there was no one, from the President there was no one and from the government. You know why? Because this government runs anti-Polish politics in Lithuania. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u683	Mr President, you are not talking about the second amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u684	Because this government treats Poles in Lithuania as an object in international relations. [[Mr. Marshal!]] And it has to stop. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u685	I draw your attention to the fact that you said no. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. Everyone voted against. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. The 2nd Amending Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 1 Member was in favour, 405 was against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this end we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Polish Charter. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws (prints Nos 3425 and 3441). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u686	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the two joint committees: the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology, I recommend that the joint committee adopt all the amendments, respect the Senate's will and efforts and vote red against rejection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's what we're gonna do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u687	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 14. The Senate filed for a revised Road Transport Act. In the first amendment to Article. 5c paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes a new wording of point 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. No one voted against, against 397 Members, abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording to be added to the article. 5d. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 390 Members voted. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 6 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 4. Amendments 4 to 10, 14 and 15 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against amendments 3 to 10, 14 and 15, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. For - 1, against - 393, holding down 3. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the inserted article. 27b The Senate proposes that a new mouth be given. 6. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 11th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. Nobody voted for, 400 Members voted against, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the inserted article. 27b The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 12th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. No one voted against, 399 Members voted against, and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes a new wording of point 2. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 13th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Labour Code and certain other laws (Prints Nos 3424 and 3430). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u688	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report from the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws. The Senate has tabled one amendment to this law, which was examined at the committee meeting on 14 May this year. The Commission recommends adopting this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u689	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment to the article. 97 of the Act amending the Labour Code of the Senate proposes a different wording § 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is against the amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 395 Members voted. In -2, against - 393. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 min. 35 hrs. 22 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 81st meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, the first vote will be taken by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Members who do not make statements, please step away from the speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u690	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement I would like to address to the Minister of Agriculture. This statement concerns the request of many farmers from the Podlaskie voivodship, in particular from Suwałszczyzna. With this request, farmers from the village Przemysla Wielka, Szura and Szelment in the municipality of Szypliszko approached me. In a letter addressed to me, they ask that their villages be excluded from the new ONW delimitation. It's about land subsidies. At the same time, it should be stressed that agricultural land situated in the area of Przemysł Wielki, Szurów and Szelment are eligible for this payment of the ONW with natural constraints of zone II, and the new regulation of the rules for granting these payments of the ONW excludes these agricultural land from this payment. According to the farmers in that municipality, all criteria for assessing the eligibility for payments of ONW in Zone II, such as climate, soil and land, are met. In addition, farmers point out that the elements of narrowing areas are met, traditional methods and production systems are used, high standard production value is not achieved, hydration systems are not available and meliorations are made on agricultural land. The farmers in the municipality cited failed to overcome natural constraints through investments, economic activities and production methods and systems, as highlighted. Their agricultural area is situated on slopes with high slopes or elevated above the surrounding area, e.g. They're located on the mountains. The climate is continental, dry and cool, with little rainfall. Farmers from the village of Przejma Wielka, Szury and Szelment in the municipality of Szypliszka apply for the re-examination of the qualifications for ONW payments in zone II and cover their areas with this payment. In view of the above, I ask the Minister of Agriculture to carefully examine the situation and draw the appropriate conclusions, which will show in taking real action to exclude the village area from the new ONW delimitation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u691	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u692	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to raise a problem with child psychiatry. Children's psychiatry at the moment is, you might say, in full collapse. On 29 January, the Minister of Health's decree on the establishment of a Mental Health Team for children and young people was published. This team consists of Damian Czarnecki - national consultant, Cezary Żechowski - director of the Department of Clinical Psychology of the Institute of Psychology of the Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw, Mariaola Skowrońska, Barbara Arska-Karyłowska. What are the problems with this child psychiatry right now? Well, it turns out that 75% Psychiatric disorders begin during the teenage period. The bad care that children of this age are surrounded by results in a significant increase in mental illness. This was discussed at the 27th Congress of the European Psychiatric Society held on 6 and 9 April 2019. 4200 specialists from 103 countries participated. The main problems facing children up to the age of 18, which should be psychiatricly treated, are primarily addictions and include drugs and alcohol. Other diseases do not differ from those that have adults, although they have slightly different causes. The cause of the collapse in child psychiatry is the lack of hospital facilities. Extra beds are daily, often mattresses on the floor, in a better case of field beds. About 400,000. children need help, and children's psychiatrists according to the Chief Medical Chamber are currently 416. Children's psychiatry now requires good funding, support, training of psychiatrists and the development of many psychological clinics. Such a clinic opened up at Cape Hope for patients after cancer treatment, and in fact it would need every place to primarily have access to psychological care for children of school age. Improving psychiatric care is essential. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u693	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u694	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, the Pomeranian MPs of the PIS came up with something that seemed unbelievable even recently. They want to take Gdansk's area around the monument to Westerplatte. In this connection, they submitted a project on investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939. Of course, the purpose of this specialization is to take over from Gdansk, as I said, these areas, because the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II is coming, and PiS wants to completely take over these celebrations and make its manifestations there. The justification for this project is about long-term negligence. Please take a walk there, you will see a well-maintained area where the remains of the war are properly exposed, there are well-maintained display cases with descriptions, photographs. Unless the PiS state would like to rebuild the destroyed buildings like a model, but probably not, because such places in the world serve memory and reflection, not artificial reconstruction. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 19 of this draft law is said to be the date on which the decision becomes final, the property is given to the investor for free use. The investor, the State Treasury, who wants to take over. Point 2 states that the acquisition of property rights of buildings and other equipment permanently linked to land and premises is stated by decision of the Pomeranian voivode, which is known to us as the voivode of Drelich. Judging by these scandalous records, the bill must be fast at night, so there's no media, you'll shove your knee. This is another attempt to take Westerplatte for the political purposes of the PiS. Last year, the World War II Museum offered President Adamowicz an offer to buy Westerplatte for PLN 2 million. That's because you wanted to do your celebrations there. The president refused, wisely stating that this place is not a commercial operation. You also tried to undermine the communalization of these areas, but it turned out that everything was right, and in addition, the communalization signed the dead. Voivode Maciej Płażyński. It is outrageous that the back door and the summary legislative path, because without consultation, he is trying to take Westerplatte to specific political goals of one party. If PiS wants to take something from the local government, he's making a bill and he's putting in some good goals. The goal is grand because it is about building a museum, but it is known that it is only about taking over this area for political manifestations. It reminds me of a situation with a forceful takeover of en. Piłsudski in Warsaw, when we heard that it was for defence purposes. It turned out that this goal was a monument to President Lech Kaczyński and Smoleński. In Gdansk they want to do the same - take over this area for their political purposes. Ladies and gentlemen! On September 1, we will celebrate the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. This ceremony is exactly what the current government wants to take over, which is why PiS does not like that the Westerplatte celebrations are coordinated by the Gdansk authorities. But Westerplatte served and should serve all Poles who respect the heroism of Polish soldiers, not the manifestations of one party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u695	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u696	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Pedophilia is a hideous crime that must be condemned and prosecuted in all cases, including those concerning clergymen, in all cases also concerning the cover-up of these disgusting crimes against children. But we have to remember one essential thing: 99.9% Pedophiles aren't priests. These are representatives of all other professions, industries, social states. And it has to be made clear that this is not a problem that is strictly confined to priests or clergymen. It must be made clear that we, Catholics, must take this matter firmly into our own hands, because the procedures that have been working so far in the Church have not been sufficient. You have to push the bishops, you have to push the dioceses. It is we who are to cleanse our Church with our hands from this plague, which is a plague of our times, especially of our times, because in these times there is also sexualisation of children, there is harassment through programs such as those offered by Mr.Trzaskowski in Warsaw. These are also forms that favor the growth of pedophilia. We need to be clear about this. We need to be clear about this. Today we are also talking about the restoration in the Church, but not only in the Church, this pre-frontal formation and traditional discipline. That's what we're talking about, and we're pushing for it. We want to make it clear that, in the face of this disgusting crime, the enemies of the Church will not dictate to us how it is to be cleansed. We'll do it ourselves. We will do it ourselves and Poland will not be the second Ireland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u697	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Bąk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u698	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to make this statement on behalf of myself and Mr Jan Szyszko. HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION: The International Institute of Humanities and Natural Sciences addressed the public opinion of the world, also represented by the highest scientific and political authorities, with an appeal to start and participate in a substantive dialogue on the authentic image, meaning and mission of the Catholic Church in Poland. The Church is a social and cultural institution, embedded in a specific historical and cultural space. In Polish history, the Church played a fundamental role in building the Polish identity. The strength of the relationship between Polish and Christianity is borne out by the powerful truth recalled during the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. I quote: there is no pre-Christian Poland. With this greater concern we are seeing media and political attacks on the Catholic Church which are increasing in the next period. They represent an impact on the general image of the Church, in its not only symbols, but also living persons, and are also attempts to close the border between pathology and norm, sin and holiness. Since the thesis is based primarily on emotions, and opinions are put up by people who do not know the Church and are not in the Church, we propose a debate aimed at a serious and worthy topic as well as those involved in the debate. The good of the Church, which is declared in many speeches, can thus gain its confirmation. Persons interested in the dialogue after reading the full text of the Institute's position on the website. ecodevelopment.pl, please contact us at institutenhp@gmail.com. The position was developed by the members of the Institute: Fr. Prof. dr hab. Paweł Bortkiewicz, moral theology, Fr. Prof. dr hab. Tadeusz Guz, philosophy, prof. dr hab. Jan Szyszko, ecology. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u699	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u700	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, I had the privilege of attending a conference in Lublin devoted to the role of agricultural chambers in shaping and implementing the country's agricultural policy. In Poland there are many sectoral local authorities. These are medical, counseling, crafts and others. Unfortunately, agricultural chambers are among those with whom representatives of the profession with which the agricultural chamber has been established are relatively small. The tasks of the local government are often confused with the role attributed to trade unions. However, the role, function of chambers in managing the production and expansion of our agriculture can be difficult to overestimated as long as chambers do their job properly. Agricultural chambers as an institution of a democratic country appoint their boards in free elections. However, there is an opinion that information about elections, the rules of their conduct at the places of office of electoral committees has not yet been and has not yet been widely known among the eligible voters. I therefore ask the ladies and gentlemen of the Houses to make known in their constituency that the elections to the authorities of the Agricultural Chambers will take place on 28 July this year. I would also like to encourage you to take part in them. If farmers vote many times in these elections, this fact will have a great impact on the efficiency of the chambers and it will be of great benefit to the Polish villages. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u701	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Kaminski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u702	Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, which is already the norm in this Seym, could not finish my speech in this important and appalling public opinion and causing huge emotions about pedophilia in Poland, pedophiles in the Church. I wanted my voice to sound very clear again. I firmly say that assigning any of the parties - I will stress: any - political, strong dispute in Poland about the ambivalent attitude towards pedophilia is unfair. I firmly believe that both the left and the right side of this room have a similar attitude to this grim crime. The problem lies in the connection with the Church, which is connected with Polish politics in an unprecedented way in the civilized, Western world. And here is the problem, which if we had a normal situation, if the Church were not so much a participant in the political game in Poland, would be a problem over which also people who have drifted away from the Church would lean only as a problem of this institution not only in Poland, but wider, worldwide. In Poland he is, but because of the Church's fault, written into this political dispute which is with us. Of course, they are wrong on the one hand, such as, excuse me, the Prime Minister, who was taunting from this tribune, saying that the Ministry of Security is responsible for pedophilia in the Polish Church. Because there was no Polish Communist Security Service in Chile, either in Boston or in Ireland. But, of course, it is not right for those who will blame pedophilia in the Church of PiS, because in the same Boston, the same Australian PiS was not, but there was the same Catholic Church. If I hear today from the Church's defenders that, after all, paedophiles are among bricklayers, taxi drivers, then I want to answer that yes, perhaps there are even more of them, only that neither bricklayers nor taxi drivers to their sin and to their crimes do not use the authority of the Church, do not use the casket and the cross to inspire the trust of the child who want to use them. And that's the difference. The difference is also, High Izbo, that neither bricklayers nor taxi drivers have internal secret instructions that put them above the law of the country in which they live and forbid them from testifying and reporting to the state authorities about the crimes they themselves commit on young children under threat of excommunication. And that's the difference. This is not only a problem of Poland, it is a global problem and today the Holy Father, Pope Francis, is faced with this problem. And in this matter, regardless of our personal faith, we should all root for Pope Francis. We should all cross our fingers for him, because he's definitely in the interest of justice. Ladies and gentlemen! If today one party, a party connected with the government, shouts that there is a hand raised to the Church, and today the Primate of Poland says that this hand raised does not see, then you are, dear country, more papal than the Pope and more primacy than the Primate in your desire to cover up this matter. You are afraid of what truth Poles will learn about the Church in Poland. But this truth, referring to the phraseology of the Church itself, can set us all free. And it is also so that tonight the Primate of Poland said that political posters, political banners on Polish churches should not be hung. And I can appeal to all Poles from this tribune: Tomorrow go to your parish priests and speak of the words of the Primate: remove the posters and banners of one political party from the churches. Because especially for believers, the Church should grow above political and current dispute, especially since political parties, left or right, are made by sinful people. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like this case to be resolved in Poland and throughout the world. For it cannot be that in our country these banners, political banners of one political party, which hang on church fences, obscure the evil that is happening behind these fences. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u703	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u704	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the last few days, the word pedophilia is already changed by various cases. And you have to say briefly and bluntly: zero tolerance. Unfortunately, this evening Parliament has once again proved that the two greatest political forces of the Polish Parliament on such an important issue as the safety of a child, who is the most vulnerable, cannot, Parliament cannot reach a single common position. Here are two political forces making this a feud, making it a grand grand, forgetting that this right is supposed to be the right to defend children. They forget there should be zero tolerance for pedophiles. No tolerance for pedophiles regardless of whether it concerns a priest, a soldier, a politician, a high officer, a journalist, an actor, a director, or perhaps a regular worker. [[Everyone.]] Criminal law should be blind regardless of the state of wealth and origin. The law should be tough and enforced consistently by all governments, regardless of their options. Unfortunately, the Polish Chamber is unfortunate that due to the lack of a coherent and consistently implemented programme to protect children from paedophiles over the past few years, these victims of recent years are victims of political omissions, omissions of courts, omissions of politicians, cover groups, cover perpetrators and criminals. Zero tolerance and time for very concrete and radical steps, which will be an important signal for all paedophiles who are either in Poland or who are in Poland, that chemical castration is for these crimes and there is no pity in this respect. There's a chemical castration so that no one else hurts helpless children to keep them from harming their children. Another issue is monitoring and electronic collars. An open, open, yet complete pedophile set. Unfortunately, every perpetrator, every criminal, must be aware that his actions will be known, that his actions against children, vulnerable persons, will be known to protect other children. I hope that the High Chamber and the political class will mature to seriously defend our smallest, most vulnerable and vulnerable people - whether they wear dresses, uniforms or beautiful business suits - politicians, journalists or actors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u705	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u706	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, Marshal Kuchciński once again closed the parliamentary debate and we, Members and Members, were deprived of the possibility of debate, a very important debate about pedophilia, pedophilia in the Church and about human tragedies. Why? Because the rulers are closer to Bishop. Hungry, who, speaking of a movie, just don't tell anyone, said, "I don't watch anything. High Izbo! A paedophile doesn't have fatherly affection, nor does he have therapeutic skills. Sleeping in the rectory is not an attraction. Bathing in the rectory doesn't mean the baby's dirty. Kissing a baby by a priest in the mouth isn't on the principle: give a pussy and gimp a beard. Sound familiar? Well, that sounds familiar, because it's the words of Mr Peterovich, the prosecutor who defended the paedophile priest from Tylawa. As long as Mr Piotrowicz is the face of the PiS in the fight against pedophilia, nothing will change. The rulers failed to expel Mr Piotrowicz as regards the headship of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, and human rights are the rights of a child who does not have the slightest chance and the ability to defend against a paedophile. Will a procedated bill make pedophiles wearing collars go to jail? No. Will the new records punish those who participate in the conspiracy of silence? No. What will change this giant revision of the Penal Code? Nothing. What did Zbigniew Ziobro, the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor do with the knowledge obtained from the document?Just don't tell anyone about the Sekielski brothers? Nothing. How many people have been arrested? Priests? Bishops? Not one. How many people have been questioned? No one's been interrogated. Has the D.A. started any proceedings? Well, no. Today, PiS really just wants to raise the penalty, nothing more. And where is its inevitability? Well, there isn't, and there won't be. As long as PiS politicians organise political meetings in catechetical halls, where religious lessons should take place, as long as PiS politicians hang electoral banners on the fences of churches and rectory, and as long as Mr Peterowicz is supported by his colleagues in PiS, nothing will change. The removal of Mr Piotrowicz from the office of chairman of the committee may have been the first step, such as the gesture of the rulers, in order to begin a solid trial with pedophilia in the Church. This opportunity has not been taken advantage of today, but also of this problem which has become so boggy, it is no longer possible to blur, because the wave of public outrage is huge. The film was watched by more than 17 million viewers, and Pope Francis is concerned that more and more voices such as the voice of Fr. Prusaka, who asks difficult questions and talks about priests paedophiles who hurt children under the auspices of their superiors and do so with impunity. The bill we've been investigating today is a fraud project. He only serves to keep things the way they were, to survive the conspiracy of silence. She's not a shield against pedophilia. This is a project, but don't tell anyone, but we, Members and Members of the opposition, say, because this is what the public is asking for. Only an independent committee empowered by the law has a chance to clarify the matter of silence. Only an independent committee can explain and settle all cases of pedophilia. This committee is opposed to the PiS. Such a committee is opposed by the current rulers. An independent state committee is needed immediately, High Izbo, and we will call it. We will call a committee one of the first laws in the next parliament, because it must be done, and it must be done immediately. It was wrong that today in the Seym this was the end of proceding on this very important project, which does not contain what it should contain. They won the business, they lost the victims for that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u707	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Ireneus Gains, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u708	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, But who would become the cause of sin for one of those little ones who believe in me, it would be better to hang a millstone around the neck and drown it in the depths of the sea. The words of Jesus Christ quoted from the Gospel according to St. Matthew is a warning and sounds like a sentence of eternal condemnation to those who have become the cause of stumbling, corrupting, and harming the innocent. The film of the Sekielski Brothers, just don't tell anyone, caused a storm of discussion and a wave of public commentaries about cases of pedophilia in the Roman Catholic Church in Poland. Pedophilia is one of the worst, most disgusting and terrifying crimes, a crime on the body and soul, the consequences of which are irreparable and often have a negative, even dramatic impact on the victim's entire life. The crime of pedophilia must be met with a strong negative response from the state. And that's what happens. Today the Sejm of the Republic of Poland passed a law on amending the Law of the Penal Code and some other laws, which establishes among others. increasing the risk of criminal penalties for sexual offences against minors and extending their limitation period. It is a very good law that should come into force as soon as possible for the benefit of minors and society as a whole. Statistics show that among those convicted of pedophilia offences in Poland, clergymen represent a small percentage. The phenomenon of pedophilia in Polish society occurs in various social and professional groups, therefore narrowing the discussion on this subject by opposition politicians and liberal media to the Roman Catholic Church is manipulation and in fact fighting against the Church itself as an institution, but also as a community of believers. The Church is us, a people of the faithful. It can't be agreed to. The Sekielski film is shocking about the facts, because paedophile actions are always, in particular, committed by clergymen, shocking and terrifying, but it must be noted that the whole film is one great manipulation, also in the image layer in the form of pictures of places and sacral symbols that are sacred to believers, which are supposed to be an illustration of the the thesis that is equally great manipulation, assuming that the Church is a paedophile habitat, and every priest is a paedophile - either active or potential. The phenomenon of pedophilia in the Roman Catholic Church in Poland is a very painful, stigmatized problem, it is a bleeding big wound, and the actions committed require severe punishment, but it is a marginal problem in the context of the whole phenomenon of pedophilia in Poland. In the Church, the vast majority of priests are witnesses of Christ, true guides to the spirit of the community of believers. They say if they want to scatter the herd, they'll hit the shepherd. The true purpose of the film and the prosecution launched in connection with its release by liberal media is to destroy the Church, and even more, the goal is to destroy Poland. I agree with the words of the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński: Whoever raises his hand to the Church raises his hand to Poland. I appeal to believers for support during this difficult period of Polish priests, priests of the Roman Catholic Church. We need them, we need them, we need them, but we also need to support them. It was thanks to the Roman Catholic Church that Poland survived during partitions, wars, German and Soviet occupations. The destruction of the Church will open the way to the dispersal of the Polish state and nation in a single European state, to which the ideal heirs of Communist Altiero Spinelli, who wrote his will in the declaration of Ventotene, seek. There's no permission to do that. Today, 16 May 2019, the 362nd anniversary of the martyrdom of St. Andrzej Boboli, the Apostle of Pińszczyzna and Polesia, patron of Poland, the Holy Priest of Christ, who fished human souls for God, who, despite the experience of cruel torture, did not renounce the sacred Catholic faith and Polishness. St. Andrzej, our patron saint, pray for us, pray for Poland, pray for the Polish people, pray for the holiness of the Roman Catholic Church and its priests in Poland, ask us the graces we need to win the fight for the faithful Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] Christ, about Poland sovereign, safe, prosperous and just. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-16-sejm-81-2.u709	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 81st session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 82nd session of the Sejm, appointed on 12, 13 and 14 June 2019, will be delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 15]]
