ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. I would like to call Mr Puda and Mr Rychlik to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mr Grzegorz Puda. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Culture and Media - hour 9.30 a.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 11. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Safety of the Children's and Adults' Protective Vaccination Program - hours 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the Environment Children of War - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: support for aestheticism - h. 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u3	Thank you very much, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2018 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners (print No 3352) together with the position of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs (print No 3393). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Sylvester Tulayev to present a report. Congratulations on your honored service, by the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u4	Dear Marshal! Thank you very much. High Izbo! In accordance with the obligation under Article. 4 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners present to you the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2018 of the Law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. This report, a very extensive, nearly 100 pages, is available in print No 3352. It was discussed by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, where a very broad discussion was held on this subject. This committee meeting took place on 24 April 2019. The report contains an analysis of this issue and presents the scale of interest of foreigners in acquiring real estate in Poland in 2018, as well as shares and shares in companies that are owners or users of perpetual real estate in Poland. The data contained in the report reflect the number of decisions issued by the Minister in 2018 on the acquisition by foreigners of real estate, shares or shares, as well as the scale acquired by foreigners of real estate, shares and shares, which are shown by the Minister's records of purchased real estate, shares and shares by authorisation and without the required permission. At that point, I would like to stress that the records of the Minister of Interior and Administration shall be drawn up on the basis, first, of extracts of notarial acts and copies of agreements with notarially certified signatures pursuant to which the foreigner has acquired the property situated in the territory of the Republic of Poland or has acquired or entered into shares, shares or general rights and obligations in a commercial company which is the owner or perpetual user of the property located in the territory of the Republic of Poland, second, the extracts of the documents certifying the succession together with the notes of the inheritance protocols, if an inheritance has been established by the foreigner and, in the preceding Protocol, the heirs have made a declaration that the succession is part of the ownership or the permanent use of the property in the territory of the Republic of Poland, the parties or the general part of the estate of the commercial company which is the owner or the perpetual owner of the property situated in the territory of the Republic of Poland, thirdly, the copies of the European proof of succession or of property in the territory of the Republic of Poland, if they have been declared to be incorporated in the natural property or in the territory of the third parties or in the territory of the territory of the Republic. High Izbo! In view of the above, the completeness of the records kept by the Minister depends to a large extent on the reliability of the statutory obligation to send the documents indicated to the minister by notaries and courts. The acquisition of real estate by a foreigner requires, in principle, the permission of the Minister responsible for home affairs. Foreigners are also obliged to obtain permission to acquire or acquire shares or shares in a company, as well as another action concerning shares or shares of a trading company established in Poland, which is the owner or user of perpetual real estate in Poland. The provisions of the Act are aligned with the requirements of European law, and in particular European freedoms for citizens and entrepreneurs of States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. As in previous years, there is a very small number of permits issued for the acquisition, acquisition of shares or shares in companies owned by or users of perpetual real estate located in Poland, because capital trading for entities originating in the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation is free and free to do so. In implementing the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in 2018, the Home Affairs Minister issued 241 permits for the acquisition of 302 land with a total area of 25,48 ha, including 41 permits for the acquisition of agricultural and forestry real estate with a total area of 14,19 ha. 89 permits were also issued for the acquisition of 109 residential and commercial premises with a total area of 5668.63 m2 and five permits for the acquisition of shares and shares in companies owned or used by perpetual real estate in Poland with an area of 6.82 ha. The permits concerned mostly properties located in Mazowieckie, Małopolskie, Pomorskie, Dolnośląskie and Śląskie voivodships. The licence holders were dominated by entities representing citizenship or capital from Ukraine and Belarus. In 2018, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs issued eight decisions refusing foreign nationals to authorise the acquisition of land and premises, shares and shares. Within this number, negative decisions were issued because of the foreigner's failure to show his permanent ties with Poland or the failure to comply with statutory conditions justifying the issue of the permit. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration shall also undertake activities within the framework of statutory powers to examine the legality of the acquisition by foreigners of immovable property, shares or shares. Where it is found that the transaction has been concluded in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Property Acquisition Act, an entry in the Register of real estate acquired by foreigners shall be made with or without authorisation. As in recent years, most buyers have been citizens and entrepreneurs from the European Economic Area. The interest of foreigners in Polish real estate trading is constant. According to the data collected in the kept register, foreigners acquired land with a total area of 5035,51 ha on the basis of 7334 registered transactions, including agricultural and forestry property with a total area of 798,91 ha on the basis of 1044 registered transactions, both on the basis of the required permit and without the obligation to apply for authorisation in 2018. Secondly, they purchased residential and utility premises with a total area of 603 529 m2 based on 9197 transactions. 182 acquisitions of shares or shares in companies owned or perpetually owned by real estate with a total area of 3926.38 ha were also registered. In 2018, most of the land-based properties of foreigners were acquired in the Silesian, Mazowieckie and Łódź voivodships, and among the buyers were dominated by entities representing the nationality or capital of Niemice, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Given that the authorisation is valid 2 years from its date of issue, and only the party to the transaction depends on the conclusion of the contract, the data on the number of authorisations in the calendar year concerned do not correspond to the data on the acquisition of the property on the basis of the permit. Moreover, not every permit means the actual acquisition of the property by the foreigner, because the parties to the transaction may waive the intention to conclude the contract. In accordance with the Article. 6 Act to acquire property by a foreigner contrary to the provisions of the Act is invalid, and the annulment of the acquisition of property by the foreigner is ruled by a court at the request of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. This right also has the right due to the location of the estates of the voivodship, starosta, Marshal of the voivodship or voivodship. In 2018, 80 transactions entered into in breach of the Act were recorded. Among these cases, in 20 cases, as a result of the actions taken by the Minister responsible for the internal affairs of the parties to the transaction, they themselves led to a state compatible with the law on the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners, and in 40 cases the Minister referred to the courts for annulment of the acquisition of immovable property by law. The other cases are pending. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, it should be noted that the register kept by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration enables the monitoring of trends in the acquisition of real estate, shares and shares by foreigners and an analysis of the scale of interest of individual groups of entities, individuals and entrepreneurs representing foreign capital, the acquisition of specific types of real estate and the degree of interest of such real estate in individual voivodships. The register is a database containing in particular information concerning the property acquired by foreigners and the data of the companies in which foreign nationals acquired or acquired shares. These data are primarily derived from notarial acts sent, court orders and are obtained in the course of investigations carried out by the Authority. Therefore, it is now very important to ensure that documents relating to the acquisition by foreigners of real estate, shares and shares are fairly transmitted by courts and notaries so that the record kept by the Minister contains complete data in this regard. It is also stressed that, despite the completion of all transitional periods in which a permit for the acquisition of real estate by foreigners from the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation was required, the Minister responsible, i.e. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration shall continue to be the authority empowered to monitor the trading of immovable property involving aliens by keeping a register of immovable property, shares and shares acquired or covered by aliens. It should be noted that since 2017 there has been a trend in the number of documents affecting the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration following the entry into force of the Law of 2 December 2016 amending the Law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and certain other laws. This amendment extended the catalogue of documents to which they were required, inter alia. Economic departments of the National Court Register, notaries and public administration bodies. The new solutions introduced result in the creation of a system for obtaining relevant documents and information for verifying and monitoring the trading of immovable property involving foreigners. The acquisition of information about certain legal events to which a foreigner is party within the meaning of the law on the acquisition of property by foreigners, and the extension of the catalogue of documents to which notaries, courts and public administrations are obliged to send, have a positive impact on the certainty of economic turnover. This led to the fact that the data entered in the register of real estate, shares and shares acquired by foreigners more accurately reflect the actual level of interest of foreigners in real estate located in Poland and their participation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Polish capital market. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! When presenting the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2018 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, I ask the High House to accept and adopt this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Edward Siarka to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u6	Dear Marshal! As it so happens that I am the first Member to act at the moment when you are in session, I wish you all the best. Congratulations on your choice and success in public activity. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u7	Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I present my position on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2018 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. As the Minister said, the committee at its meeting on 24 April 2018 considered this report and recommended that the High House adopt it. This position is included in print No 3393. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u9	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first vote, Mr Edward Sulphur is on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present our position on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2018 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. The report is contained in print No 3352. The 1920 law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners introduced the principle that the acquisition of real estate by foreigners is subject to authorisation by means of an administrative decision by the Minister of Home Affairs. Once Poland entered the European Union in May 2004, the law was adapted to the requirements of European law. According to these provisions, foreigners from the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation may freely acquire property and shares and shares of commercial law companies without authorisation after a transitional period. Thus, after this period, from 1 May 2016 foreigners from the European Economic Area do not need to obtain permission to acquire property, regardless of the location and area of the property, in Poland. Foreigners from outside the European Economic Area, when purchasing property in Poland, receive appropriate consent if the acquisition of property by a foreigner does not result in a threat to the defence of the state or public order and does not oppose social policy and social health considerations. The foreigner outside the European Economic Area must also demonstrate that there are circumstances that confirm his relationship with Poland. The Act sets out in detail what these conditions are. After such a request for permission to acquire property, the Minister of the Interior shall authorise the acquisition of real estate unless the Minister of National Defence or the Minister of Agriculture opposes it. The Minister of the Interior shall refuse to accept the acquisition of the property by the foreigner if he finds that there are clear grounds for refusing a decision. In 2018, eight refusal decisions were issued in the Ministry for Foreign Property Acquisition. All refusals under the Act may be contested by the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw. This Decision shall enter The Provincial Administrative Court considered only one such complaint. In 2018, 664 applications for permission to acquire real estate and shares from foreign nationals outside the European Economic Area were received by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. During the reporting year 2018, 335 positive decisions were issued, including 241 permissions for the acquisition of land with an area of 25.48 ha, 89 permits for the acquisition of 109 dwellings and five permits for the acquisition of shares in companies. The largest number of permits for the acquisition of real estate by foreigners were issued in Mazowieckie and Małopolskie voivodships, and as we analyze previous years' reports, this rule, you can say, is confirmed from year to year. The majority of Ukrainian citizens - 177 real estate, Belarusian citizens - 29 real estate, Vietnamese citizens - 13 real estate, Chinese citizens - 11 real estate and Russian citizens - 10 real estate were asked for permission to acquire real estate in 2018. Of course, there are still individual decisions on other nationalities, which are detailed in the report. It is worth noting here that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration keeps a register of all documents relating to the acquisition of real estate and shares. The Ministry received 35 138 such documents in 2018, 17 377 of which concern the acquisition of real estate and 17 761 of equity. If we compare these figures with previous years, it can be said that in 2018 there was a 33% increase in the number of documents compared to 2017. On the basis of the register we know that in 2018 16 531 transactions were carried out - those requiring and not requiring permission to acquire real estate. Also in 2018 foreigners purchased together - this is the total sum of all transactions related to the acquisition of real estate - 5035.51 ha of land and premises with an area of 603 529 m2. Among natural persons, the majority of the property was acquired by German citizens, i.e. 390 ha, and among the legal entities the majority of the real estate was acquired by entities with Dutch capital. It can be said that this trend has been at a similar level for years and is also maintained in terms of nationality. Most of the property was acquired by German citizens in the Silesian Voivodeship. Compared to 2017, the total number of transactions and quantities of real estate sold to foreigners increased. Mrs. Marshal! The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the report by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u11	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition will be the first to speak by Anna Nemś.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I present my opinion on print No 3352. Ladies and gentlemen! As we analyze every year the report by the Minister of Home Affairs on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. It should be borne in mind that from 1 May 2016, foreigners from the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation do not need to obtain permission from the Minister of Interior for the acquisition of real estate. The registers in which the property purchased by foreigners is entered are therefore crucial from this point on, both those which require authorisation and those for which authorisation is not necessary. As the predecessors emphasized, the number of real estate buyers increased significantly: in 2018, from 5464 to 7334, and from 6385 to 9197. The sale of land property increased from 4400 to 5,000. ha. The Minister of Home Affairs in 2018 received more than 35 thousand. documents, compared to 2017, represent an increase of more than 30%. 16,000 were made. entries in the register, 3.5 thousand. entries are transactions from previous years, and have ended ad acta over 24 thousand. documents. Ladies and gentlemen! In the report we analysed last year, i.e. for 2017, the documents relating to the real estate purchase transaction were 26 355, then 11 800 were entered in the registers. The number of documents completed ad acta is interesting here. Minister! Please tell us what kind of documents are those 24 400 documents deposited ad acta. Is this the first year you've moved so many documents to the archives? Never before such a position, as I recall - and always carefully analyze this report - was there. I know that the Minister has just taken office, so if there's no way that you can give me that information, I would ask very much for a written reply. A further part of the report on agricultural real estate will be presented by my colleague. Come on in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke will speak as the second person on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u14	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The year 2018 was the second full year in which foreigners from countries of the European Economic Area, i.e. The European Union, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and the Swiss Confederation could acquire agricultural and forestry property under the same conditions as Polish citizens. They could be purchased from 1 May 2016. Purchasers from other countries still need to obtain permission from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. In 2018, 7334 land purchase transactions were recorded by foreigners with a total area of 5036 ha. Let me remind you that in 2017 there were 5464 transactions concerning 4483 ha of land. This means that in 2018 compared to 2017 the number of transactions increased, also the area of land sold to foreigners, i.e. 11%. Of the total area of 5036 ha, the agricultural and forestry land that was acquired in 1044 transactions was 779 ha. The most Polish agricultural and forestry land was purchased by Germany. In terms of location, the voivodships led: Śląskie, Zachodniopomorskie and Opolskie. Our concern is that in 2016 the area of agricultural land sold to foreigners was 39%. higher than in 2018. I will also remind you that this situation took place despite the introduction by the Government of Law and Justice in 2016 of a restrictive law restricting the sale of Polish land to people other than Polish farmers. Foreigners acquired shares and shares in commercial law companies owned or owned by perpetual users in 2018. 182 transactions related to 3926 ha of land were registered. Compared to 2017, there has been a double increase in the number of transactions. Let me remind you, there were 91 of them. In the case of land acquisition, the increase was 58%. Let me remind you that in 2017 it was 2478 ha. The analysis of the report shows that agricultural and forestry real estate accounted for 3132 ha. Let me remind you that in 2017 it was 1756 ha. This means an increase of 78%. Half of this area concerned Wielkopolska Voivodship. The year 2018 was another year in which there was a significant increase in the area of Polish agricultural and forestry land purchased by foreigners, which was related to the acquisition of shares and shares in commercial companies. In transactions in which shares and shares were acquired in companies with agricultural and forestry land were dominated by German capital. Also in 2017, the total area was almost 80%. higher than 2016. German capital was also dominant in transactions on the basis of which shares or shares in companies with Polish agricultural and forestry properties were acquired or acquired. In 2018, foreigners purchased directly, i.e. as natural persons, a smaller area of agricultural and forestry land than in 2017, while there has been a significant increase in the acquisition of shares or shares in companies with agricultural land. In both cases concerning the acquisition of direct and acquisition of foreign shares in 2018, foreigners acquired significantly more agricultural and forestry land than in 2016, and despite the existence in Poland, I will remind for the second time a restrictive law prepared by the government which limited the sale of agricultural land to people other than Polish farmers. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to ask how this is happening, and I would like to get this information in writing, that sales are being limited to individuals, while sales to commercial companies that have agricultural and forestry land are increasing to foreigners. Is this a permanent process? What further decisions will the government possibly make? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u15	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2018 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. At first, I would like to draw attention to what we are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, the basis for our discussion is the 1920 law. This is very interesting because it shows that a good bill can last 99 years. I am glad that we are based on the bill, on such foundations of the Republic of Poland. This also shows that some problems of the Republic of 1920 are very similar to what is happening today. It's such an interesting thing. I have a request, Minister, for God's sake. let's not change, because a good law from 99 years ago, as you can see, can be better than a law from 2019, which is changed more times. It's a small remark. Undoubtedly, this report shows an important fact that Poland is still a popular country. We are a popular country, a country of business or housing interest not only in the European Union, the Swiss Confederation, but also in which - and this is also an important point - there is an increase in interest among the people of Europe or Asia, Eastern Europe. I am thinking about Ukrainian, Belarusian, Russian and, of course, Vietnam, which is also a trend for a long time. Why am I talking about this? Because the Home Office, your ministry, is actually such a binder. Your base, your ministry is a binder, which must carry out a specific sieve, sieve in connection with other institutions, offices, agendas, in order to take care of the Polish state, the Polish security, the Polish interest, but at the same time to give the opportunity and opportunity to exist whether it's citizens or business from another country. This is very important. That's why I'm counting on the MSWiA to do this job well and solidly. And the fact that despite this growth - we are all talking about this, that this upward trend is huge - we do not have an increase in the number of problems, feuds, levels of aggression or other undesirable effects. It is also a very important signal that MSWiA conducts a wise policy in this respect, but at the same time balanced and taking into account the rations of all parties, looking from the law side, but also Polish rations. Therefore, Kukiz15 will be positive about your report, your information, hoping that you will consistently keep an eye on the interests of the Polish state in the coming years, but also on the civil rights of people who are interested in the Polish market or the acquisition of land. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u17	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Sawicki will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party - European Union of Democrats. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats on the report of the Minister of Home Affairs, I want to make such a brief summary, because we have the opportunity, we have the 4th year of the PiS rule. You could say it's a full term. The term of office, which began with a strong hug in the field of protection of the Polish land under the motto: we will not give up any skiba, and the data analysed since 2016 indicate a reverse trend. The total area of land acquired by foreigners on the basis of the permission of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration in individual years is as follows: 2016 - 3185 ha, 2017 - 4483 ha, 2018 - 5035 ha. These data relate to property acquired by foreigners in connection with the authorisation granted and without authorisation, both by legal persons and natural persons. As part of the above mentioned transactions in the years - I will expand here - 2015.2018 foreigners purchased agricultural real estate with the following areas: in 2015 - 412 ha, in 2016 - 575 ha including forest real estate, in 2017 - 1144 ha, in addition forest real estate 106.66 ha, in total almost 1300 ha, in 2018 - 798 ha of agricultural land, in addition 181.54 ha of forest land, i.e. almost 1000 ha. It should be noted that the Act of 14 April 2016 on the suspension of the sale of real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and the amendment of certain other laws, which, particularly important, amended the Act on the formation of the agricultural system, are in force during the period indicated above. Entry into force the novel coincided with the end of transitional periods protecting the Polish land from redemption by foreigners from the European Economic Area, i.e. 1 May 2016 As stated above. The new regulations introduced by it were intended to guarantee the protection of Poland's land, which was justified by far-reaching interference in the marketing of agricultural property. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum, there is a risk that after that date agricultural land in Poland will be the subject of increased interest of buyers from other countries of the European Union, especially those where agricultural land prices are much higher than in Poland. The revision was to be discussed for the above forecast, and the explanatory memorandum indicated that the only ratio legis of the adoption of the act was inter alia. strengthening the protection of agricultural land in Poland against its speculative buy-out by domestic and foreign persons. Therefore, exceptionally restrictive administrative and legal arrangements have been introduced into the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system, resulting in the acquisition of agricultural real estate of more than 0,3 ha by a person other than an individual farmer requiring the indication of the approval of the National Agricultural Support Centre, which has had a drastic impact on the market in agricultural real estate. However, after 1 May 2016, i.e. after the expiry date of the abovementioned period. the transitional periods and the entry into force of the amendment in question, the foreigners acquired 458,86 ha of agricultural and forestry real estate. It should be pointed out that the buyers were mainly citizens of Austria, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, i.e. those countries where the land is more expensive than in Poland. However, in the year preceding the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system in its amended wording, i.e. In 2015, foreigners acquired 412 ha. Therefore, there is a fundamental doubt as to the effectiveness of the solutions adopted, which already in the initial period of validity did not meet the ratio of legis assigned to them, and even more so raised by the then representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, including the Minister of Agriculture, the announcements of stopping the purchase of Polish land by foreigners. It's an image of the data I've presented before. Independently of the above, data on the acquisition by foreigners of shares and shares in commercial law companies which are the owners or users of perpetual agricultural property are also required to be taken into account. According to the report of the Minister of Home Affairs for 2018, foreigners acquired shares and shares of commercial law companies, which are owners of agricultural property. A question should therefore be asked about the effectiveness of these tools, in particular the practice of using them, including the exercise of rights from acquired shares and shares, and the way in which the above translates into the possibility of the KOWR influencing the management of agricultural real estate which is the property of companies. In addition, note it is appropriate that the practice of implementing the law on the formation of the agricultural system indicates that KOWR avoids issuing decisions refusing to dispose of or acquire real estate, since it is then forced, at the request of the real estate vendor, to acquire that property. Therefore, in 2018 KOWR issued only 293 negative decisions, with 18,581 requests for consent to the acquisition being submitted to KOWR in that year. In addition, 17 152 consenting decisions were issued. So the fiction is that KOWR will guard the Polish land. Notwithstanding the above, it should be noted that the regulation of the marketing of agricultural real estate does not refer to the leasing of agricultural real estate. In this respect, the trading of agricultural real estate of the State Treasury is regulated as the land is, in principle, leased as part of limited tenders. The lease of the State's agricultural land in the Treasury is therefore regulated in detail on the basis of the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury and the implementing acts related to that Act. On the other hand, the conclusion of contracts for the lease of private land is governed by the provisions of the Civil Code. At this point it should be noted that the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system of 5 August 2015, repealed by the Act on the cessation of the sale of real estate from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws, in the wording of Article. 12 specifically regulated the scope of the agricultural property lease contracts, including their form, including a qualified form of notarial act. In addition, under this Article, the contracts and copies of the notarial acts of the lease agreement were to be transferred to the directors of the then off-road branches of the abolished Agricultural Property Agency competent for the location of the leased property. This regulation allowed the registration of lease contracts in terms of the subject matter and subject matter. In the current legal state there is no similar regulation, which does not allow, inter alia. for analysis of the market of agricultural real estate leases in Poland for the use of land by foreigners. The question remains whether the absence of this provision was intentional or, as usual, in the case of legislation in this term of office, it was simply a matter of haste and sloppyness. In view of the above, I request on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats that the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is not accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u19	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform the High House that Members have come forward to ask the question. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for the question-- 1.5 minutes. The first question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are in block 28 countries of the European Union as an agricultural country. We're in a joint market that makes us a business addict. In Poland there are about 15 million hectares of agricultural land and 10.5 million extra-sown. I'm going to risk saying that the numbers I've heard at the moment and that I've been aware of so far do not pose any threat or concern about the land trading with foreigners. Every participation of foreigners according to my more than 40 years of practice involves the fact that they introduce innovation, differentness, newness. The level of education and practical knowledge of our farmers, both technically and agrotechnically, is weak. Therefore, let us not be afraid of these transactions of land trading. Besides, I think there's too much phobia, too much nervousness. We don't have one. knowledge of how much Polish farmers, Polish entrepreneurs have land in 28 countries, i.e. in the European Union or in the world. Do we have that knowledge? We don't. It would give you fantastic information about what that means. Here's another thing. I wanted to make it clear that the numbers I heard today don't scare. It's quiet and there's no danger, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to take foreign land out of Poland by caravans. There's no such trend. So I'm thinking... On the other hand, this bill seems to be more damaging to us, it's blocking the land of the farmers, which for various reasons...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u21	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u22	...is carried out as well as in the foreign capital arrangement. Let's open up more, let's not be afraid and watch what Poles do. I will risk saying that Poles have more land abroad than foreigners with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u23	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Adam Sněžkou, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For a number of years, large social emotions have aroused the issue of the illegal purchase of land by foreigners through the underprivileged Polish citizens. I wanted to ask you, Minister, how the government today evaluates the scale of such a phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u25	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 25 ha of land purchased by foreigners by means of permission of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration - surprisingly little. One storm on the Baltic Sea can take out more Polish land than they are able to buy foreigners. After all, we live, according to the ruling camp, in the land of milk and honey flowing, therefore we should expect that those willing to settle in Poland and acquire Polish land will be more, which would be beneficial, because we need all the time human capital, we need hands to work, because the labour market deficit is over 2 million, maybe even 3 million people. So the question is this: Do you draw any recommendations for immigration policy from your work, your activities and your conclusions? Are the cases analysed in this respect or could they possibly be analysed? Because the question of smart, capital-oriented human immigration policy is a challenge, it is a necessity and such a policy must be built. Perhaps one of the tools is here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u27	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Nemś, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For years, when we analysed these reports, there were always two problems: one related to tardiness, one related to the number of documents collected, and the other with notaries. And I would like to ask if this examination of documents, more than 24,000, their deposition, I understand, of course examined, was carried out thanks to the strengthening of the human resources. Can you please, because I'm sure you have it analysed as thoroughly as the entire report is written down, and write it down in detail? If not now, please in writing. What kind - once again, there are 24,000 of them, it's a huge number, almost as much as the Ministry received in 2017 - what are the documents? I'm asking because today's records are the only vent we have, the ability to reliably monitor the purchase of real estate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u29	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u30	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is the acquisition of real estate, shares, shares, agricultural land or forest land by our compatriots in Poland limited - as we know, it is difficult for us, there are some paragraphs, regulations, it is very difficult - and it is easier for foreigners to buy? Minister, isn't there any concern that the property purchased, shares, shares or agricultural and forestry land will later be sold at higher prices to earn money? We already know the various speculations, and the so-called ones were already mentioned here. poles. And another question, Minister. Isn't it worth doing everything that these properties, shares, shares, agricultural and forestry land remain in the hands of our compatriots, so that our goods are protected and remain a guarantee that we, Poles, are hosts in our lands and estates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u31	Thank you very much. And Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, in general, we as Poles are great hosts, therefore, Minister, I am interested in the answer to such a question: Does the Ministry of Home Affairs have data, how many Polish citizens in general own agricultural land or forest land or tenants of these land within the European Economic Area or the European Union? It would be good if we knew how Poles also abroad cope in this area. Minister, if you are unable to answer this question today, please send this information in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u33	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that the list of Members voted in has been exhausted. I invite you to answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Sylvester Tułayev.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u34	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this debate, for this discussion on the report that we are still talking about. Thank you very much also for your questions. I'll try to answer them. Mrs Nemś points out that there is a significant increase in the number of documents that affect the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Indeed, I stressed in my speech that this trend continues to persist and that it is primarily a consequence of the entry into force of the Law of 2 December 2016 amending the Law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and certain other laws as of 1 January 2017. It is this amendment that we have extended the catalogue of documents to which additional entities have been required to send. So on the one hand we have an extension of this catalogue of documents, earlier only notaries had the obligation to send these documents, and on the other hand we extended it to the economic departments of the National Court Register - notaries remained, as much as possible - and public administration bodies. So this number is really increasing, and we are putting it in the report. I would also like to make it clear that despite the precise data which the courts are required to provide to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the fact is that unnecessary provisions are being sent to include in the register of entrepreneurs or to change data in the National Court Register concerning those entities which do not have the status of a foreigner or as foreigners are not owners or users of perpetual properties located in the territory of the Republic of Poland. At present, it is indeed noticeable that the courts are sending orders to change the registered office of the company, to change the supervisory authorities and other provisions which do not apply to the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. In 2017, more than 10,000 were received by the Department of Authorisations and Concessions in our ministry. unnecessary documents. The organisational changes that you have also asked about are, above all, changes in the organisation of work, there are no additional costs here. In April 2017, there was a division of the Department of Authorisations for Acquisition of Real Estate, Shares, Shares and Registers into two departments, i.e. the Department of Authorisations for Acquisition of Real Estate, Shares and the Department for Registers. These changes, I would like to stress with all my power, have not caused additional costs, as they have been carried out within internal structures and existing staff resources. As a result, transfers are made within the own personnel resources of the Department of Authorisations and Concessions. This is to improve the work of the department that deals with these matters. Mr Plocke spoke about the quantity of land purchased. I would also like to make it clear that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration does not affect the quantity of land purchased, real estate, but merely monitors this aspect, of course by keeping a proper register. In the marginal scope of the MSWiA issues - I spoke about this, I quoted this information and numbers - consent, permission to acquire property by foreigners from outside the European Economic Area, because most properties are purchased by foreigners from the EEA. This increase is simply due to the expiry of the transitional period, which expired on 1 May 2016. I would also like to make it clear once again that the acquisition of shares or shares by foreigners from the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation in companies owned or owned by perpetual users does not require authorisation, even if it is agricultural or forestry land. Mr Marek Sawicki notes with concern that these permits are very much, that this is a very large increase, but another Member stresses that this is a small number. Let's note that agricultural and forestry properties acquired with permission have an area of only 14 ha, so this is a small area. The rest is just registration, and we have no control over that. Mr Gadowski's question. I would also like to answer that question. I would like to point out that this question does not fall within the scope of the law we are discussing and does not concern the report that we are leaning on today. Once again, thank you for this debate, for the discussion, for the questions. Once again, I ask that this report be adopted. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the report presented. We will proceed to the vote at the next session of the Sejm. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 82nd meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list, make a statement? I can't see. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir. I can't see. So Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to raise a very important problem and call on people not to do so, namely the problem is so-called. pox party or administration of lollipops infected with varicella virus to children. This is really playing with the life of a child. In the current vaccination calendar in Poland, these vaccinations are mandatory only for groups of life, patients after transplantation, immunosuppression, with severe immune diseases, and there is no such obligation for the entire population of children, so smallpox exists in Poland. From 1 January to 30 April 2019 92 727 cases of chickenpox were reported, i.e. the incidence is 241.39 cases per 100,000. population. During the same period, 74 856 smallpox was infected in 2018 with chickenpox. Poles, i.e. the incidence was lower - 194.87 cases per 100,000. population. There is an increasing number of hospitalized children as well as adults. Why should you not make smallpox party and deliberately play with your child's life and health? Well, smallpox, especially in preschool age, is quite mild. However, there are severe forms of smallpox that occur very often in children, and then we are dealing with the occupation of various important organs: the occupation of the central nervous system, i.e. smallpox encephalitis, smallpox meningitis, cerebellitis - this leaves traces for life. You probably know that this disease is characterized in a healthy child by the fact that the child gets high fevers, spots appear, then they go into lumps, bubbles, it gets scruffed, and in case of infection with any bacteria, which in inadequate care may occur, can result in sepsis and death of the child. In a good scenario, the scars remain. We remember from the past sick, girls who had deep scars, also on their faces, because they are quite distinctive. The infection of this disease is to the last bubble. As you know, in adults there is shingles - this is the same FSV virus that can be stored in the body in the form of latency, and in the event of a decrease in immunity it manifests itself in the form of very painful nerve activities. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a vaccine, and it's a pity that it's not available as a refund for all the children, but for the risk groups I've been talking about. But it's always worth the baby to inoculate and not risk the form in which serious complications can occur and leave Maybe lifelong footprints. I don't know who invented it, the idea is really of the kind from hell. How can you deliberately expose a child to any disease, including one that can impair a child for the rest of his life? Therefore, from this speaker I appeal to my parents: do not do this. If the baby's gonna get sick... Because the message is that it is better for this child to get sick - it is done with preschoolers, at least that's what my friends from infectious wards say, where children get smallpox from a party - so that they don't get sick at a later age. I'll add one thing. Adults who have not been vaccinated and who have not been in contact with the varicella virus have been the most ill. During our studies, we've seen it in our colleagues, and it's actually dramatic, acute and difficult, but that's no reason to infect your own little child with any disease, and certainly not with a windmill that has kidney damage, liver damage, pneumonia and, as I said, the central nervous system. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to do this and to promote - to my fellow parliamentarians - knowledge among the young generation. That's not a good idea. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u37	Thank you very much, Member. As the next person to make a statement, I invite Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Lubusian, Lubusian! It is you who I address today my very optimistic speech and I would say that with full satisfaction I am addressing you, because in recent days on the land of Lubuskie a lot of very positive things are happening. Maybe I'll start with a spiritual event that is behind us and ahead of us, because we happen to have completed the peregrination of St. Józef Kaliski on the territory of our diocese of Greengórsko-Gorzowska. I feel like it was a very providential step of Fr. bp. Tadeusz Litinski said that he invited St. Joseph to us, to the diocese, and as diocese long and wide, St. Joseph met with the men of our diocese. I accompanied them where I could, and I would like to thank you, gentlemen, for your testimony of faith. I would also like to thank you for taking responsibility for public and social matters in our Lubusian reality. It is very important that men are mobilizing in matters that are important for both social life and, above all, family, social and political life, which were also the dimensions of the Euro elections. And I thank the Lubusians very much for the outcome they gave our group, the Law and Justice. Then St. Joseph visited us, he also visited the Blessed Virgin Mary patiently listening in Rokitno. And so it happens that in the next three days: Saturday, Sunday, Monday in Rokutno for the 350th anniversary of the Marian shrine that is where our diocese will celebrate this event. And I think that we, Lubushus, will meet again there, that we will rejoice and we will act as spontaneously and positively towards each other as during the marches for life and for the family. This march was a phenomenal time. I'll mention Gorz, Senator Elizabeth Flanek. Thank you, Elu, for supporting this march, that both the leaders of political life and above all you, inhabitants of Gorzów, Zielona Góra, Żar, Zagania and many other cities on Lubuska's land, organized these marches. I'm gonna stop by the Żarach for a while, because that was the first time this march was happening and it was extremely impressive. Joyful, full of positive vibrations and relationships between people, and above all smiling, and affirming life, cheerful indeed. And the last thread in today's rejoicing in the condition of the land of Lubuskie and the inhabitants of the land of Lubuskie. In the coming days we will celebrate various festivals of cities, districts, etc. Of course, I'll start with my beloved Krosn Odrzański, where I live. The next weekend is our fishing festival. My compatriots or other: local compatriots will fetch this holiday, fetish and enjoy the beauty of our city and its image, but also its condition. And I'd like to ask you, my fellow residents, to watch out for the sun. It's burning and burning and sometimes in this feerie of joy we forget about head covers. So hats on the head, not off the head. I'd like to talk more about something that happened today. This is the beginning of the 700th anniversary of the celebration of the granting of city rights to the city of Sulech. Beautiful town on Lubuskie soil, and a relay of 700 shifts. I think, Mr. Mayor Wojtek Sołtys, that it would be necessary to ask whether you would not fit into the Guinness record, as this wonderful experience of 700 years of cityship today is also robbed by a very cool idea of passing a multigenerational chopstick. This sports relay has such a symbolic dimension. The life of the city, the life of our local community doesn't start and it doesn't end with us. There were predecessors ahead of us, and the successors will follow us. So we should humbly reflect on our place in historical times and on earth. Happy birthday, Lubushus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u39	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u40	High Izbo! The Way of Youth gathered at the Gallery! I'd like to say hello. It will be my pleasure if you will listen to these few sentences, and I will dedicate them to the great date of 4 June 1989, the date of the first partially free elections. The elections, which were Victoria, were the victory of Poles thirsting for freedom, victory over communism. On that day, the process of disintegration of the Soviet Empire was gaining momentum. The dominoes moved from the Baltic countries to Bulgaria. The most important, most famous chord of this process in the world was the fall of the Berlin Wall, but it started with us in Poland. That's the date we're going into history, the history of the world, and this is the date we should celebrate and worship. You go through the seym hall and you see two great exhibitions. Pay attention to them. So... On 4 June each year should be a valid date, a joyful date. It should be a date worshiped, a public holiday, because this moment decided about our here and now, that the space of freedom was opened, as Tadeusz Mazowiecki later said, the first non-communist Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. We've been building this space of freedom for years. A year later, the great local government elections won by the people of the civil committees. The self-government was born, the foundation of our prosperity in local communities. 10 years later we join NATO, 15 years later we are in the European Union. We should celebrate and worship June 4th, just like this local governments in Poland. I give them all the highest praises. As far as Opole is concerned, the Council of the City of Opole and the City Council of Namysłów, the city from which I come as a man present in the public life of the region, I would like to thank and thank those who led to the session, Mr Jack Fior, Chairman of the City Council, Councillor of the Civic Coalition under the direction of Mr Julian Kruszyński, a friendly local government under the leadership of Mr Artur Włodarczyk. Your attitude has decided that this session took place because the mayor of the ruling formation was against it and did everything - and his councillors did not come to the session - so that this session would not go on as we would like, solemnly, dignifiedly and dignifiedly. I hope that in the following years it will be different that we will treat this date as a connecting date, a date which does not divide, but on the contrary, allows us to go back to times in which we fought for great matters and had great matters, because Poland at that time needed unity, needed to be liberated to the end from the yoke of communism. This date on June 4, a few days later, he announced the Namysłowska Development Forum, ending his 25th anniversary. This formation, coming from the Civil Committees of Silesia and later from the Civic Movement of Opole, has shaped the political reality of Namyślowa for decades. The first mayor of Namysłowa and the first head of Namysłowski Adam Mawaw, the first chairman of the city council of Czesław Kosturek - these were forum people. And there were many, many others I can't name. At the top of its organizational development there were 220 members in all circles in each municipality. The Forum led to groundbreaking infrastructure investments, breaking down the collapse, you can say, civilizational Namysłowa. It led to the first foreign investments, to the formation of the county, to the construction of the Michalice reservoir. To conclude, as a member of the forum, I would like to thank you, my fellow Members from this formation, from this association. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanks to you, there was a thoughtful citizenship on earth. Your commitment is still needed. Thank you very much. You're a role model. Be a role model. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u41	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice to make a statement. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 30 and 31 May, the Baltic countries organised an important international conference on the Eastern Neighbourhood in Vilnius. I would like to remind you that this initiative came about as a result of a proposal from Poland and Sweden. The conference addressed the important problems of the Eastern Neighbourhood countries, in particular the problems related to Russia's aggressive attitude towards Ukraine, towards Moldova, towards other countries in the Eastern region. It also concerned the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia and the situation in other Eastern Neighbourhood countries. I think this is very important for us in relation to relations between the countries of the European Union and the countries of the Eastern Neighbourhood. I call on the authorities of our Parliament to make the transcripts of these debates available to the Members concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u43	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Law and Justice. I invite you to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear citizens of Podlaskie Voivodeship! The roads are progress, investment development, pace, energy, new jobs and successes. No one needs to be persuaded to do that. The Self-Government Road Fund appointed by the government of Mateusz Morawiecki is an excellent idea to support the development of road, municipal and district infrastructure. This idea is a new opportunity to support local governments in developing roads. In 2019 Podlaskie local authorities will receive over 382 million PLN for the construction, reconstruction and renovation of municipal and district roads. The limit for the financing of multiannual tasks, which may start this year, will be about PLN 82 million for each subsequent year. In total, the amount of support addressed to the Podlaskie Voivodship will amount to PLN 414 million. It is worth noting that Podlaskie is in the first place this year as regards the amount of funds allocated to local roads from the government's programme. On a per capita basis, although it must be said that this is a poorly populated province, it will be PLN 281, which gives, as I mentioned, the first place in the country. The amount of funds allocated to the Podlaskie Voivodship under the Local Roads Fund in 2019 is placed in our region, as far as the amount is concerned, on the fourth place in the country. For comparison, in 2015 local roads were modernised by local authorities in Podlaskie Voivodeship and received a little more than 56 million PLN of funding and built or renovated about 160 km of roads. Thanks to funds from the Public Roads Fund, road investments will reach an unprecedented record scale in 2019 and will be several times higher. According to the plan of the Podlaskie Voivodeship Office, about 400 km of roads will be built in 2019. Let us recall that on 4 December 2018 the provisions of the Local Government Roads Fund Act introduced revolutionary changes in the way and scope of financing investments in public roads managed by local government units entered into force. Its task is to finance the construction, reconstruction or renovation of district and communal roads, including investments on those roads which were simultaneously classified as defensive roads, as well as the financing of tasks involving the construction of local bridges in the voivodship, district and communal roads. The Podlaskie Voivodeship will soon clearly experience the benefits of this form of funding, and its inhabitants will be able to move on the roads much faster and safer, which I hope will contribute to the even more dynamic development of the Podlaskie Voivodship. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Ostrowski, Law and Justice will make a final statement today. I cordially invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a statement on 4 June in Gdansk by a group of local governments 21 also local governments. Before I started my parliamentary work, for many years I was a self-government officer at various levels of local government. I was a district councilman, city councilman, twice a governor, councilman of the Sejmik Voivodship Wielkopolski. Local government issues are therefore well known to me. I see the importance and need of local power. Acting in the local government, I also noticed that none, even the best functioning local authorities, are able to develop Poland themselves and make it strong and safe. This can only be done by the central government representing the Polish state's right. Only the government has the ability to pursue a coherent economic, social, educational and even foreign policy. That is why I was very surprised to see that a group of local government officials as a form of celebrating the anniversary of the contract elections adopted 21 also of such a far-reaching decentralisation of power, that their implementation would cause total destabilization of the state. It is not possible to have a strong state in a situation where each region has, for example, separate law enforcement services, different PIT rates, other curricula in schools or even other organised health services. Although I am very close to the local government, it is difficult for me to see any positive in the actions of local government officials gathered on 4 June in Gdansk. On the contrary, I consider them hostile to the Polish people. I would stress that not the enemy of the ruling party, but the enemy of strong and independent Poland, our homeland. In every other country, the interests of the nation are taken care of by all, both the rulers and the opposition. The state of the state is above political discourse, beyond political division. Only Poland has a total opposition, to which are the presidents of some cities, which act against the Polish interest, acting against Poland on the international stage or trying to dismantle the country from the inside through progressive decentralisation. At this point, I would like to appeal to them to be remembered. It is not difficult to find in our national history examples of situations in which Poles themselves led to the fall of their homeland. Let's learn from history. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-14-sejm-82-3.u47	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 82nd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. It was special to me because I am in a whole new role. I would like to thank the House for its trust, but I would also like to thank my grandchildren who are following today's proceedings through the Internet, Clara and Witold. Thank you very much. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 83rd session of the Sejm, scheduled for 3 and 4 and 5 July 2019, will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. The Sejm is adjourned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 10 min 29]]
