ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, as announced yesterday, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and the Law on the System of Administrative Courts and consider this item as item 2 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u2	Mr Marshal, I would like to object to the proposal to put this item on the agenda for two reasons. First of all, it is a law which puts the National Council of the Courts above the law, because it eliminates the possibility of appealing against the results of competitions carried out by the National Courts. After all, there is a rule in Polish legislation that there is always the possibility In administrative proceedings or in judicial proceedings, the appeal that there is always a possibility of appeal. Therefore, this law goes against all the legal rules in force in Poland. Secondly, this is a law, another law, which blurs the division between the legislative and judicial authorities, blurring the three divisions of power. It's a bill that makes the legislative authority go in. He's coming in. In the territory of the judicial authority, by interfering directly in the proceedings, those proceedings which are already taking place and preventing proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning those competitions which the Supreme Administrative Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union has asked for. This is unacceptable interference. I'm gonna say it again. The legislative authority, the direct interference of the legislative authority with judicial powers. I hope that you are aware of the genetic burden on this law, and that is why they will agree not to debate this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u3	Thank you very much. Then we'll have a vote. Who is in favour of my proposal, that is, putting this item on the agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 61 senators voted, 46 were in favour, 14 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, the agenda has been completed. [[No, wait a minute, Mr. Marshal...]] Excuse me? [[Conclusion.]] Conclusion? What's that? [[Yeah, it's formal.]] Formal? You're welcome, Senator. You can file a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My motion is to move this bill to the next Senate meeting. So let me put it this way. In the middle of...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u5	Mr. Senator, that's impossible, because we've completed the order. The High House has voted on this, and your proposal is unfounded. [[But, Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry...]] Thank you very much. [[Excuse me.]] Mr. Senator... [[The request for a delay shall be a formal request. Will you admit it?]] No, there's no such conclusion. I'm gonna take your vote. Thank you very much. Are there any more conclusions? Thank you very much. We proceed with the review of the second agenda: the Law amending the Law on the National Council of Courts and the Law on the system of administrative courts. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1161, and the report of the Commission in print No 1161 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the Act amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and the Law on the System of General Courts. The purpose of this law, as the applicants point out, is to regulate the legal status created by the Constitutional Tribunal on 25 March this year. a judgment finding non-compliance with Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a of the Act on the National Judicial Council of Art. 184 constitutions. As indicated by the applicant, the provision of Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a the Act on the National Judicial Council, added by the Act of 8 December 2017 amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws, was intended to exclude the Supreme Court from the recognition of appeals against the resolutions of the National Judicial Council concerning the appointment of judges of that court. This solution provided the Supreme Court with too far-reaching an impact on the cast of judges in that court, to the extent that it undermines constitutional rules, according to which the KRS' sole competence is to present proposals for the appointment of judges to the President. The appointment of judges shall be the sole prerogative of the President who, upon receipt of a request from the National Courts of Justice, has the autonomous power to appoint a Judge as indicated in the application or to refuse to appoint a Judge, and his decision in this respect shall not be justified or subject to judicial review. Although, in the event of an appeal against the resolution on the assessment of applications for judicial positions from a formal point of view, judicial review is limited only to the assessment of the regularity of proceedings by the National Courts of Justice and cannot enter into the substantive assessment of the applications made by the Board, the Supreme Court, when examining appeals, had the possibility to be effective and repeatable In the re-examination of the case by the National Judicial Council, the blocking of those resolutions. The power of the National Judicial Council to present the election of the Supreme Court Judge may therefore have become illusory and the President may have been deprived of the opportunity to comment on the candidate proposed by the National Court of Justice. The natural consequence of the amendment of the Act on the National Judicial Council is also the amendment of the article. 49 laws on the system of administrative courts. The entry into force of the Act is foreseen 7 days after the date of publication. In principle, the proposed law is, in addition to this main provision, precise and orderly. The discussion during the committee's work was quite brief. Senator Pociej and Senator Rulewski, who questioned the constitutionality of the bill, took the floor. The Legislative Office also raised objections about the constitutionality of the records. A request for adjournment was made and the bill was postponed until the next Senate meeting. This request was not accepted by the committee. Senator Pociej filed a motion to reject the bill. This request also did not receive the approval of the committee, 2 votes in favour, 5 votes against. There's been a motion for a law without amendment. The senators voted that 4 was in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, I request the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few months ago, when we were debating the eighth amendment, the eighth law on the Supreme Court, I heard from one of my colleagues in Law and Justice, when I was courting myself about going back and forth and fixing what's ruined every time... The senator then answered me from the speaker: but it may happen to anyone that he will stumble. I took the liberty of quoting a joke. The D.A. in the courtroom is asking a cop what happened. And he says, "The dead man committed suicide by stabbing himself." Well, the D.A.'s asking, okay, but seven times? We've been in this room nine times, and without a wink, you're making amends for what your colleagues are screwing up over and over again. I would remind you that we have already had improvements in the laws concerning the Supreme Court, which have not yet entered into force. Then, when the opposition, I think, in substance, tries to draw your attention to the mistakes made in these subsequent novels, you are completely on the agenda. And it doesn't bother you that the president, who is from your formation, vetoes these stupid records, that ministers, who defend the next amendment and say that we're wrong, come with the amendments that we made. The state of law is dramatic as far as the Supreme Court is concerned. This mess, so to speak, has already spilled beyond the borders of Poland and causes that the reputation of our country as a law-abiding country, and this is very important for international relations, for trade, for economic exchange, for any investment, is still being undermined due to these unwise records. Why did we file a motion to reject this law in its entirety? The sin that has been appearing in this room for 3 years concerns the mode of work. Can you give me the opinion of our Legal Office? Do you have any access to it? Are you interested in what lawyers think, on which knowledge in the case of other laws you seem calmly and whose arguments you accept? It's so outrageous that you don't even have an opinion from the Legislative Bureau. Up until now, the Legal Bureau has been writing an opinion on its knees for the night. Well, it's the first time she's gone... Excuse me, the other one, because yesterday we were unable to prepare an opinion. It's about the education bill. You think this is how we're supposed to proceed? What confidence do you have in submitting your colleagues? What kind of trust can you have when your colleagues cut two thirds of the amendment themselves? Did they get it through the night? Well, now that they've agreed to... Since 15 signed and 15 concluded that they had screwed it up in 2/3 or 3/4, do you have any reflection, dear colleagues, that maybe this end is also screwed up? This bill works backwards. Imagine an example from your own backyard. Many of you are economic activists. Imagine you're complaining about an administrative decision and there's a bill that says that some part of the business... Well, let's say that. builders must not appeal against administrative decisions. That's exactly what it says here. This concerns only one fragment, one kind of judge, that is, Supreme Court judges. And they can't appeal. Moreover, they have already appealed, exercised their constitutional right to challenge these decisions. What does this bill say? What's in progress is thrown into the dumpster. Well, have you seen a country that works that way? We asked during the committee meeting if there was one of the 15 wise men who signed it. Who was authorized to do this? Well, of course, Mr Ast, whose legislative work has been improved many times in this Chamber. They were never here, none of them came and tried to defend these most unwise records. It must be admitted that from time to time there was a representative of the Ministry of Justice. Well, only twice he had to come back and submit to you something completely different than what he had previously persuaded you to do. Where are they today? Can you ask anyone competent about what you're adopting? No, because there's no opinion of our office, there's no clue as to the reasons for the applicants and there's no representative of the Ministry of Justice. We all know very well... And I'll tell you honestly, my dear fellows, I think this is going to be your biggest problem. Well, we all know this is a test. blocking of procedures at the Court of Justice of the European Union. The fact that the constitution is being broken by the way is also a problem, but if you read all of this, you will see that someone is watering the fire with gasoline, because there is no chance that this law will become the basis for the Court of Justice of the European Union to withdraw from it. That's not gonna happen. So what are you going to do about this bill? You're not gonna change anything about our image, you're gonna make it worse, because I think this bill is the worst of these 9 laws. She's already written in a very simple way. The fact that it's about knocking out the teeth of the ten people who filed the appeals is obvious to the naked eye. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to defend the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki, but if you do not see the fact that someone on your team is laying a foot in the international arena, then you do not read what you are getting. This attempt was much more extensive. Well, if this whole package had passed, you wouldn't have read it either, and you wouldn't have thought about it either, and you would've pat it in the same form with no opinion either. Fortunately, you can see that someone inside... thought for a moment how horrible this bill was, and threw out scandalous fragments of it, but not quite. I say it's a bill against your government. Well, unless it's a priority to fill the Supreme Court so no one can complain, whether it's a fatal sentence or an election. That's all. The unconstitutionality of this law leads me to uphold the motion submitted. That is why I dared to take a moment with my esteemed colleagues. Like I said, you don't have any material so you can even check out what you got, so maybe my speech was a little long. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u9	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Pociej. It is true that you have quite competently presented the discussion on the quality of this law, but I am interested in a specific section of the committee meeting in which, I understand, there were arguments for the adoption of the law without amendments to the obvious allegations concerning the lack of constitutionality mentioned by the senator, but also the Legislative Office, and quite common opinions of lawyers. Unconstitutionality is certainly in 2 areas: as regards equality before the law and the right to courts to the extent that judges are not able to appeal against the decision The final and sacred National Council of Courts. Were there any substantive arguments on the part of the majority who adopted this law without amendment at the committee meeting? What were the arguments? Were there problems in the debate regarding the non-compliance of this law with European Union law and with the European Convention on Human Rights? I ask, because this is also a point of view, a very important context of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u11	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? Yes. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u12	Dear Senate Walls! I want to ask a question that none of you physically present can answer. [[Who, who?]] [[To the wall of the Senate...]] I turn to the walls. [[No, I need you to address either one or the other senator.]] No. Since no one was able to answer questions concerning constitutionality, compliance with human rights and the impact on the preliminary ruling process at the Court of Justice at the committee meeting and today it is not, in the absence of such questions. I'm counting on the Senate walls to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u13	Good. Who else wants to ask a question? [[Senator Szymanski.]] Oh, I didn't see it. Thank you for your help, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because Senator Pociej says that there was no opinion of the Legislative Bureau, and the Senator rapporteur says that this was the opinion, I would like to ask for an explanation on this matter. If there was an oral opinion, what were the arguments with regard to the issue of the unconstitutionality of this law? That's the first line. Second line. Did a representative of the Ministry of Justice attend the committee meeting? At the moment, as far as I can see, there is no representative of the Minister of Justice in the courtroom. Thank you. [[I think...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u15	There you go. Wait a minute. Okay, well, I assume that was three questions. [[Mr. Marshal always after three questions...]] Yeah, I'm just wondering if Senator Rulewski's question qualifies as a question for the rapporteur. But there were three questions. Good. You're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u16	If there's anything I can do behind the wall, if that question was to the wall. Those two questions are gonna catch up. Well, Mr. Senators, there wasn't a committee meeting, which I was talking about here... No one from the Ministry of Justice came and none of the Members of the applicants came. As far as the discussion and arguments are concerned, it was just the two of us, which is Senator Rulewski and I. There was not a single vote in favour of this amendment, except for the dry votes in the vote at the end, in which mathematics, as something difficult to manipulate, turned out to be what it was 5 to 3. I'll answer that right away. I said, Mr. Senator, that... I asked you if you had that written opinion. Of course, you don't have it, because the process for this amendment is this, not different, so it wasn't done. However, of course, there was an oral opinion. This opinion refers to settled rulings of the Supreme Court which stated that, due to the principle of the functioning of the authorities on the basis and within the limits of the law, Article. 7 the Constitution and the principle of equality of all towards the law and equal treatment of all by public authorities, that is, Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution, the judicial review of the proceedings before the Board of Appeal is a matter of the National Judicial Council. It should be a matter of assessing whether the National Judicial Council operates within the limits of its powers and whether all candidates participating in the competition procedure have been treated equally and whether none of them have been discriminated against in any way. The object of protection arising from Article. 60 of the Constitution is, in turn, a formal aspect of access to the service, i.e. compliance with uniform criteria and procedures, not merely assessing the qualifications or credibility of the person concerned in terms of the criteria used in this procedure. Therefore, the judicial review carried out by the court of that provision does not give rise to a breach of the powers of the National Judicial Council, since the assessment of the candidate itself is a matter of the National Judicial Council and this could mean a violation of the constitutional powers and powers of the board. Judicial protection granted to a candidate for a specific judicial position should include review of the proceedings before the board in terms of its legality, i.e. purely procedural. It is so in very many proceedings that at some point This is the case in the proceedings before the Supreme Court, I judge not the reasoning of the judge, not his sighting of the event, only whether all procedures have been preserved so that there is no influence on these procedures. So it has to be limited, so it was. For the assessment of the legality of the procedure used for the assessment of applications or applications. In other words, the essence of the doubt reported here This is our legislator's doubts. It boils down to whether the Supreme Court will be able to continue to examine the investigation process by the National Courts of Justice for a final resolution, i.e. a resolution on the presentation to the President of the candidate concerned of the appointment for a judge's position, and even though it is the basis for a resolution of the Assembly on the assessment of the candidate or candidates, they will already benefit from the quality of legitimacy. And that is what our legislator later told us, that there are very serious doubts about the constitutionality of taking away the opportunity to appeal, abstracting completely from the fact that there are cases that are being resolved here. This is the act of the law backwards. There is no stronger argument and there is no stronger proof that constitutional principles and the rule of law are being violated in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u17	That's all the questions, isn't it? These are the answers to all the questions, right? [[No, I'm afraid not.]] No? You're welcome. [[No, no, I said...]] Oh, it's over. [[...but I see there are further questions.]] And that's what I see, and I know it. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u18	Thank you very much. I have a question for both the rapporteurs. My question is: did the committee's meeting mention how many of these proceedings are before the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg? I ask them because I have been asked by citizens who have already lost their way because there is a proposal from the European Commission, there are questions for a preliminary ruling. Was there a speech on this at the committee meeting? And if that was not the case, do the senator rapporteur for the minority proposal or the senator rapporteur for the majority have knowledge of this? Perhaps this would bring us closer to putting this amendment in place in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u19	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u20	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I'm addressing Senator Pociej. I have a question in the same context, but slightly differently formulated, concerning other values. Don't you think, senator? and whether there was a discussion at the committee's meeting That this law is, in fact, an attempt to block the preliminary questions addressed by the NSA to the Court of Justice of the European Union? What will be the consequences of this when the Court of Justice is not bound in its proceedings by any constitutional court or by the provisions adopted by the Sejm or the Senate, but only on the basis of the criteria for compliance with European law? What will be the consequences for the Polish state in the context of an open conflict with the European Union? I'm asking about the consequences in this context, in this case. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u21	I understand the procedure has changed when it comes to asking questions at the moment of the lead change. Then I'll answer those two questions. Senator Jackowski asked if there was a discussion about... [[The number of applications.]] ...number of applications. Mr. Senator, there was no discussion. There was no one to ask, no one to come. But it was really about that, we were saying that it was de facto, and nobody here denied it either. The purpose of the action is to put an end to all these proceedings. If I recall the purely newspaper information, it seems to me that those conclusions that went through the NSA are between a few and a dozen. And it is as if our internal... problem with the Court of Justice of the European Union is a little different, because it is about whether the solutions and proceedings to date before the Council, already in general, constitute a violation of the Constitution and the rules of the European Union. In this context, too, with regard to the Charter of Human Rights... Well, in the Council of Europe, as you probably know, a report on the state of the rule of law in Poland is prepared. Draft of this report - the report has not yet been voted out - is extremely critical of the Polish authorities. What may be the consequences? Mr. Senator, of course the consequence may be to activate the article. 7. But there was no one to ask, you couldn't even look at the representative of the Ministry of Justice and have the satisfaction that someday you would at least be able to say that I didn't say because there was no one. I was quite surprised, because so far with all these scandalous amendments I believe, however, someone from the ministry came and at least tried to defend anything. Here. An absolutely orphaned amendment that was posted last night, because these prints came to us this morning. We were yesterday... It's an outrageous thing to me, too, such an anticipation. Yesterday it was not voted out by the Sejm, and we had information that we had to come tonight at 9:00 a.m. because it would be. Well, this is absolutely ridiculous. [[And the question is...]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, if you repeat... [[I'm asking you a question.]] Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u22	Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u23	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Pociej, too. I'd like to ask if you were discussing the Supreme Court's opinion... [[It's...]] I'll finish that question. ...the Supreme Court's opinion. In this opinion we read that we are dealing with a violation of the Constitution, at least 3 articles of the Constitution, art. 181, Art. 77, Art. 183, and we also have an indirect violation in connection with other articles of the Constitution... And now I am. We know there's an autocorrection. Has this self-correction somehow changed that opinion of the Supreme Court, or is it still up to date? Did you discuss this at the meeting? It seems that such a thing as the Supreme Court's opinion should first of all be taken into account by the Senate committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u24	Senator, we didn't discuss this directly. According to our Legal Office's oral opinion, the office absolutely upholds the thesis of the Supreme Court's opinion, which the Senator quoted. But unfortunately, at the committee meeting, we didn't have one. At least I didn't have an insight into that opinion. We were just notified... Because we asked whether representatives of the Supreme Court or KRS were invited to the committee's meeting. We got word that this invitation came out. But of course it's illusory, if you invite the representatives of the Supreme Court at eight o'clock in the morning at nine o'clock, then you know... Therefore, at the beginning of the committee meeting it was the idea and request of Senator Rulewski to interrupt the committee's deliberations to give time to think. Of course, it was rejected with mathematical precision, without a word of explanation as to why we would be wrong in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u25	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u26	Senator, the mode of work was extraordinary, as you said, on the night of the vote, and at the ninth press and committee meeting. I would like to know what was the reason for the chairman of the committee to convene a committee meeting, because it is the chairman who is calling a committee meeting. For such an early hour. In addition to the senators present at the meeting and the legislator, was anyone else invited, anyone else present? Because you said there were no representatives of the Supreme Court, KRS. But was there anyone else but you? Were you just in your own group, senators, sitting? And I think I'm gonna repeat my opinion. At the committee meeting, in addition to the oral opinion of the Legislative Bureau, did you get any opinion? In addition to the one you could read about in the press, in the newspaper, etc., but it was the preliminary opinion of another law and it was radically changed. Therefore, have any other current opinions been submitted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u27	Mr. Senator, of course not, there were no opinions. We've only discussed this in our own circle. There was a legislator who herself had about an hour to get acquainted with an extremely important submission and who said how she felt about it. And she thought very badly about this revision. But, I'm sorry, because... [[And the reason?]] Please? [[And the president's justification? Why was this meeting convened so early in the morning?]] There was no justification. It was called because it was... As usual, the formula has been read that this is an extraordinary procedure and that we can therefore decide to put the matter on the committee's agenda. Of course, we've been voted out. But, Mr. Senator, in one sentence, there was not a shadow of a substantive conversation. There were charges, but, as Senator Rulewski said earlier, we had walls and echoes. That's what happened. I'm sorry, but one of the questions was also to the rapporteur's colleague of the majority, and I've majorized and I haven't let the senator answer... [[Oh, there...]] I'll remember.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u28	Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u29	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for Senator Pociej. Mr. Senator, was there any comment at the committee's meeting on the subject of this, probably not, and if not, I would ask you to assess the situation that the reason for the ratio legis of this law is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Let me remind you: judgment of 25 March this year. concerning the confirmation of the selection of the KRS as a body chosen in accordance with the Constitution. It's an obvious setup. The second part was related to the issue already discussed today of the lack of possibility for judges to appeal against judgments or decisions of the National Courts. I would like to raise another legal aspect of this problem. Namely, in the composition issuing the judgment of the Court, there was a person who, according to a fairly consistent opinion of lawyers, was a judge Justyn Piskorski, who was involved in the judgment of the Court of Justice, who was an unauthorized person to sit in the Constitutional Court and, according to many lawyers, as well as an ombudsman, the participation of an unauthorized person in the composition gives rise to the annulment of the case, i.e. the annulment of the judgment. Thus, the Chamber is working on a law based on a non-existent legal basis or challenged as to the legality of the Court's judgment. What will be the consequences for future legal trading if this law enters into force?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u30	Mr. Senator, this is where the most serious legal minds are headed. We're dealing with a ladder. We start with the challenged participants ruling at the Constitutional Court, of which there are three. Indeed, this may lead to questioning, and in fact it led, before the Supreme Court, because it comes to... In front of the courts, I'm sorry, but then it comes to the Supreme Court level. If the basis for the supposedly legitimate action of the National Judicial Council, the choice of which has long been challenged from the point of view of conformity with the Constitution... Well, the effect is that the judgments of those judges who begin to judge by giving this council, judgments in cases, decisions of the general courts may also be challenged. But since we've been able to introduce an institution like an emergency complaint, where it's been given the opportunity to question final decisions for many years back... Here, in some way, the rulers gave us a way to question this kind of judgment later. I've said it more as a joke, but in fact, this whole situation could be a legal mess. And he'll be born. Well, that means many years of getting out of these problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u32	Mr. Marshal, I have a question. I'm not a lawyer, and I have this problem. Of course, we consider every law at three levels of abstraction, i.e. we consider whether the law itself is good, whether it is compatible with the Constitution, and also more and more often we need to consider what the Court of Justice of the European Union will later do with this law or even practice. I have such a problem that when I tried to read a clause excluding from the Treaty of Lisbon, which concerns Poland and the United Kingdom... Art. 1 says that the Charter does not extend the capacity of the Court of Justice of the European Union or any court or tribunal of Poland or the United Kingdom to recognise that the laws, regulations or administrative provisions, practice or administrative action of Poland or the United Kingdom are incompatible with the fundamental rights, freedoms and principles which are confirmed therein. And lips. 2: in particular and in order to avoid any doubt, nothing which is contained in the title of the fourth Charter shall create rights which may be prosecuted by judicial means applicable to Poland or the United Kingdom, except where Poland or the United Kingdom have provided for such rights in their national law. I tried to ask that question, and Mr Konrad Szymanski, and representatives of the Ministry of Justice. The answer of Minister Konrad Szymański was that we are faced with a precedent that the Court of Justice refers to primary law rather than secondary law. It's always been shown: this paragraph is wrong, it breaks some resolutions, etc. And when I asked the Ministry of Justice, I got the answer that in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union we are actually dealing with a classic situation of this type, that Poland says that this provision excludes us from your assessment, and the Court of Justice, otherwise without an appeal procedure, says: we do not have your coat and what will you do to us? Don't you see that we're dealing with a certain bump here, that we're being chased disproportionately against those laws we negotiated, for completely different reasons, 10 years ago?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u33	Senator, you are asking me a question that maybe a few people in Poland can answer, a question about the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Thank you for trusting me, but this hat is a little too wide for the size of my hat and I'm not gonna answer you here for such a complicated question. All I can do is refer to this humorous text from Bear: we don't have a coat, etc. Well, you see, Senator, how you feel when you're so pleased. Then think about how we feel when no one here can answer any questions and no one comes here. I can't answer the senator's question. to such a question, because it exceeds the scope of my competence. Perhaps Senator Ambrozik's colleague will be able to answer that question because he probably shares your view.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u34	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u35	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I was a little concerned by the senator's words about the fact that this bill was a mine, so you wanted to express yourself, put under the authority of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. If you'd care to explain your thesis... 'Cause I don't know if it was anything like that at the committee meeting or not, or if that's your personal opinion, and if so, on what grounds you're basing that conviction. If you'd like to expand... The point is, this thesis is, you can say, appalling. Was there knowledge in the committee during the parliamentary work on this subject? I'm talking about the Seym. Was there a representative of the Justice Department and representatives of the Supreme Court at the session of the Parliament's Justice Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u36	Mr. Senator, I have no idea what was going on in the Seym and if there was a representative there. I'm not gonna answer that question. I can answer your question about my thesis. She wasn't discussed at the committee meeting. But I have the feeling that for a long time... The general perception of the exchange by Prime Minister Szydło on Mr Morawiecki was that he was a man cut to speak one language with the European Union and that, after years of storm and pressure, he would alleviate controversy and differences of opinion. I was looking at it and I thought that Prime Minister Morawiecki made such efforts in the international world. I think it's a law like that. I am talking about the whole, which came to the Sejm, had to lead to another collision with the European Union. And I am now abstracting whether you think the Union responds well, whether it reacts poorly, whether I think it reacts well or not. For me, it was logical that this would end this way. I understand there was an internal counteraction in your formation. I do not believe that 15 MEPs have suddenly had an epiphany and have withdrawn 85% or 80% records. Well, there was an intervention. I understand that she was only partially successful, and I understand that this is what's left. However, in fact, I have no doubt that each of these provisions had to lead to a deterioration of these relations with the Union, not to an improvement. But this is my thesis that we didn't discuss at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u38	I would like to say that over the last few weeks there have been discussions about a bill that is de facto no longer in existence, because all the points concerning the Supreme Court have been removed from this law. I understand that that is why the name of this amendment has been changed, which was, in fact, not an amendment, but a completely new project. Am I right? These two most important records... the record that gave the President the right to appoint the President of the Supreme Court without a judge's opinion has been removed. The second entry has also been deleted, and therefore we have only those provisions that actually concern the laws on courts and the KRS, as I understand it. [[Yes.]] We have an opinion of the Legislative Bureau, which was drawn up very quickly. Because it was a completely different project, the Legislator lady couldn't prepare herself for it. This bill has absolutely nothing to do with a project that was still... entered the Sejm earlier. I have a question about the opinion on this subject for the rapporteur of minorities, but also for the rapporteur of the majority. What exactly are we doing here? Why, as a matter of urgency, are we considering something that could have gone completely peacefully through the normal legislative path? Why is it so urgent right now? How can you do something like this, which is to completely change the bill, to process something that causes such controversy, in fact, in one night? This is my request for an opinion on this matter to the senator who reported the opinion of the majority. Thank you. [[Excuse me, please shut up your phones. Someone's phone keeps ringing, vibrating. It's really interfering with the deliberations.]] That's a question for both rapporteurs, actually. [[First to the rapporteur of the majority or to the minority?]] If I may, it's the majority first. Maybe later you could... If you don't mind me asking for that order. Sorry about the mix-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The bill's pretty short. We execute the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which should be carried out as efficiently as possible. That's the argument for this bill today. [[That's it? That's it? That's it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u41	Mr. Senator, are you all right? Maybe you should answer from the spot. [[If that were possible... I was about to have leg surgery right now.]] Then sit down and answer from your seat. [[If you don't mind, I could possibly... can I come from here?]] Yes, you're welcome. But can you answer that? [[Yeah, yeah. Of course, I can.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator, in my opinion, all this haste is based on one thing. It's a bill, an amendment to block it. That's how I understand her intentions... [[Excuse me, can we all mute the phones, also vibrating? Because it doesn't matter. Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The only logical explanation why this is so quickly processed can be the idea of the authors that the entrance... I don't know. It wasn't mentioned. This law enters into force on the day of the announcement, of course there is no vacathio legis. This is an extremely fast path and really next week, Monday, or maybe even today, it can be published. In a few weeks, the next phase of proceedings before the Court of Justice will begin, and I can only understand that the authors meant to show that it doesn't matter anymore because the problem was solved in Poland. Of course, this will not be the case because the Court of Justice will refer to the situation at hand. The second reason we can also consider is that these appeals could block further decisions. In addition to these two hypothetical motivations, I really don't see any reason to proceed on this amendment in such a drasticly fast way, from day to day. Well, there's no explanation here other than the desire to use it purely utilitarianly in the argument before the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u43	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for a minority representative, actually three questions. First, have you read the article? 4, which states that the law shall enter into force 7 days after the date of the announcement and not the following day? That's the first line. That's not true what you're saying. The second question concerns Article. 3. From detail to detail, we'll move forward. It's an article, I'd call it intertemporal. Such legislation determines what to do with the facts that have encountered the law in question. These facts can be regulated differently either by old law, or by new law, or by some mixture of old and new law. Well, generally, if there are such facts, they need to be regulated through transitional provisions. And here's the question: don't you think that tearing up clothes, claiming that this law is supposed to be from the point of view of art? Three, unconstitutional... Well, she regulates transition states, which are done, practically, in what second law, which passes through our hands, maybe even in 2/3 of the laws. This is a natural matter. The question is, why do you go on such a high note when you talk about a rule that is obvious? These conditions need to be regulated in the transitional provisions. And the basic question, the most general question. I tried to listen quite carefully to what you said, how you argued with the minority's motion. And let me remind you that the minority's motion is to reject the bill. Well, part of this argument, which then, incidentally, appeared here when you asked questions, is that you regret that the bill goes so limited, in such a limited form, but it was to be otherwise, in quotes, of course. I don't know what that means. We refer not to projects that have been submitted and which have been taken down or transformed at one or another stage of the legislative process We refer to the text of the Act. The Senate is considering laws, not draft laws. So all kinds of diwags on this subject, drawing a historical drawing and pouring crocodile tears, I find it ridiculous. We should deal with the text of the bill, and the text of the law is 4 articles. We've already spoken about two of them. [[And justification.]] Well, there's a reason. Of course it is. And the fact that it was held at night that there was a wind in the eyes... Therefore, I have a specific question for the representative of minority applicants, namely: do you believe that during the examination of this law in the Senate I say again: the laws have been violated in any way by law, in particular the Senate Rules of Procedure? If so, which ones? If not, then... Of course, historical features are important, but we should refer to the text. And the basic issue. The only argument I have heard from you why this law should not be passed, i.e. to accept the request of a minority that you represent, is this: the law is unconstitutional. Since when do we speak about constitutionality? There's another question. Here we have a realization... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, could I... [[I ask you to calm down and let me ask you a question, because it really is...]] Do you have any more valuable comments? Okay, let's go. The question is simple: is the law, which is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, unconstitutional? Well, it's a very far-reaching parabola. Tell me what you're talking about. Is the judgment itself unconstitutional, that is, the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal was wrong here... [[Mr. Senator, actually end...]] But I'd like to get a specific answer. I'm just going to introduce you in the next 30 seconds... That is, either the judgment itself is unconstitutional, or the bill goes in some way too far, if so, where? Or, in general, you have no argument and you're grasping at one that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...an argument about unconstitutionality, because it's easy to say. But we don't do that, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u45	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u46	Mr. Marshal, I don't usually shy away from the answer, but it wasn't a question, it was just a pretty long one. I was trying to count a five-minute tirade. I understand that the senator has made his conclusions. I can relate... Indeed, I was wrong about the date of the law's entry into force. You are right here. But you also asked why we were talking about what was in the Seym, and why we were thinking about it, and we are not just talking about this text. Because, Mr. Senator, we had a question, and maybe that's why I won't have an answer for you today for half an hour to get acquainted with this project, and we had no one to ask for one question, because apparently the Ministry of Justice was also surprised and for the first time no one from the Ministry came. Hence the conversation was at a fairly general level of abstraction. But that's why we also talked so much about what came up, because there were some residual opinions about it. A completely different bill came to the Senate than the one we could relate to. And here we barely had a moment to think about it. Thank you. [[Senator Zdrojewska.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u47	Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u48	I would like to refer to this reply that we have a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and we need to address it quickly. Well, I'm sorry, it's going through the Sejm and the Senate at an express rate, and we've never considered any judgments of the Court in this way, on the contrary. I work in the Legislative Commission, where we do not refer for years to certain judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is postponed. And the senator should be aware of that. So you didn't answer my questions or you didn't tell me the truth, why we were so quick to process something that was already a completely different act. And I'm going to refer to what Senator Czerwinski was talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot do this. Most senators have read the bill that has entered the Sejm, e.g. I did. He was widely commented, etc., there were opinions for him. We only found out yesterday, dealing with education laws, that a completely new project had come in, that the project had been de facto withdrawn and this is a completely different project. So that I am addressing the rapporteur: the senators should be told exactly what happened at the committee meeting, which is different from what the senators have been able to learn so far, and this is your job as rapporteur. The Lord should say clearly and briefly that this is not there, and that appears. etc. And that's what I would have asked, Mr. Senator, especially since so far. I would like to point out that once again, projects of this type have been sent to the Legislative Commission, but now, for the second time, they are addressed to the Human Rights Committee for reasons unknown to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, It's not the drafts that go to the committee, it's the bill, and I was referring to the bill that came to the Human Rights Committee. Well, I'm not going to comment on something that's not in the bill, and what was in the project that the Sejm was working on, because the committee didn't do it. Otherwise, I would go beyond the scope of the report. The Commission did not deal with what was not in the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u50	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u51	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Pociej. There is also a debate in Europe on the scope and manner of action of the Court of Justice of the European Union, including: in the context of Article. 267, which discusses the procedure of preliminary questions, but also in the light of recent statements by former vice-president or vice-president I don't know exactly what the official name is. The Karlsruhe Court in Germany, the German Constitutional Court, which has quite critically said that the Court of Justice of the European Union has expanded its area of operation, that we are already dealing with a mechanism that goes beyond the legal framework and those treaties under which the Court and the European Union operate. What is your personal opinion on this subject, and do you not think that these questions from Poland are, in a sense, just such a ground for these trends that I have just mentioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u52	Mr. Senator, your question goes far beyond what we're discussing in committee. As far as the English are concerned, they have always been very skeptical about mixing the continental order with common law. And it's always been one of the basic allegations of the so-called. Brexitists that they dislike any authority in Europe outside the borders of the United Kingdom very much. They've always said that. We haven't had a problem with that since the accession, as you know. This problem arose at a time when, in a less orthodox way, quite crazy legislative activity began, which also passes through our House. And it's hard for me to say otherwise. I have no problem and personally I would never have had a problem with the Court of Justice judging, as this last instance, the actions of the authorities of a country, including Poland. And the answer to the question of whether there has been any extension or a certain acquisition of a portion of the jurisdiction, which may be this The Court shouldn't have... This is a question for experts in international law. I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u53	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Do any of the invited guests wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to take such a question? [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Klich was the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I must admit that I am relatively little interested in whether this is the face of Prime Minister Morawiecki's government, or whether this law is not a mine. Much more, and I have to say it with sadness, I am interested in whether it is a mine laid under the Polish rule of law. I'm afraid that's the case. This is another attempt to blow up what is still under the rule of the rule of law, which has been in force in Poland since 1989 and which has been incorporated into the Constitution as the foundation of the sovereign democratic Republic of Poland. Under this principle, the rule of law remains few, among others. through many, eight previous amendments to this matter, those things that we are leaning on today. I have been wondering for a long time whether to speak in this discussion at all, because we will probably repeat the same arguments. We as an opposition will certainly be a state, a majority, pay attention and observe against violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and against violations of international agreements which Poland has ratified. We will also remind you that, by adopting such a law, you are moving the country of the European Union out of Poland, I repeat: you are moving the country of the European Union out of Poland. Because the European Union is not just money, the European Union is a set of values on which the Western community is founded, and if these values are violated, it is as if you were bringing this European Union out of Poland. And after removing the rules of the European Union from Poland, it is only a step away from the exit of Poland from the European Union. So is this a law that is a polexit game? The answer to this question must be: yes, yes, this is the next step, with the help of which the majority ruling in Poland brings us closer to the removal of Poland's rulers from the European Union. Why? Because this law violates, violates at least several articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, violates the European Convention on Human Rights, and finally violates the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. I take it in my hand and read it. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 paragraph 2 is deleted... Second sentence of the mouth. 1 is replaced by the following: "The appeal shall not be entitled in individual cases concerning the appointment to serve as Judge of the Supreme Court. What's this? What's this?! This is the removal of the right to appeal against the resolutions of the National Court of Justice in matters relating to the appointment of the Supreme Judge by those who wish to do so. Thus, it is the refusal of the right to appeal against judgments, the rights which each citizen of Poland has, because also the constitution, and international agreements guarantee everyone the right to review the decision by an independent court. It must also be noted that this is a discriminatory law. This discriminatory nature concerns a very specific group of citizens. Turns out they're equal and equal. Those who are discriminated against are candidates for the Supreme Court. It is for them not to be entitled to appeal against judgments. Why would I do that? And why do you want to discriminate against such a group, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? So why do you decide to break the article? 32 Constitution, which explicitly speaks of equality against the law and non-discrimination? Why do you want to break art? 60 constitutions that guarantee equal access to public service for every citizen? If this provision is adopted, it will turn out that there are again those who have access, and there are those who do not have access. Some have bigger rights and others have smaller rights. Art. 1 paragraph 2, the one we are talking about is also in violation of the international rules I mentioned earlier. But let's also consider art. 3, which makes it clear: "Proposals in appeals against the resolutions of the National Judicial Council in individual cases concerning appointment to serve as a Supreme Court Judge, initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Act, shall be waived by law. Senator Pociej has already said that this is a recipe that works backwards. In addition, this provision is incompatible with Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 and Article 2 OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 Constitution and Article. 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. What does it mean? He means here we are, i.e. and the Sejm, and the Senate, that is, the legislative authority, are illegally interfering with the powers of the judiciary. The provision completely arbitraryly orders the judicial authorities to waive proceedings before courts where the constitution expressly requires that no one is to be bound by the law by the judicial process of the investigation of violated freedoms or rights. It is, of course, about preventing the TSUE from examining questions raised by the Supreme Administrative Court. But what kind of bill is that supposed to protect the interests of the rulers? What is this way of creating a law that takes first care of the safety of those who have previously violated the law? What is this law that is to be a shield for those who have broken the Constitution and who have broken the Polish legal order? If this is the way in which legislative proposals are formulated, it means that we have come from the way of democracy and the rule of law to undemocratic and illegal routes definitely. We're keeping it from that. We warn against those who should sit in this part of the Senate room. We observe that you know very well that you are deliberately breaking the constitution, that you are deliberately breaking signed by the Republic and ratified international agreements, and that you do not later explain that you did not know. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I took the liberty of asking a slightly grotesque question, not so much to the Senate as to the walls of this Senate, because it is difficult to say that the silent Senate or senators who close their mouths to other senators are what meets the constitutional conditions of the Senate. More and more often, the Marshal responds to the voice. Lately, even if he's already allowed to speak, it's forbids justification, and we just had a sample of how it was one of the senators, it turns out he broke my belief that only the walls exist here because he was forbidden to justify his request for minorities. Indeed, he should only say two words that the minority's motion is against. But then why would he justify why would he do so if it could be said by the marshal or the chairman of the committee? Which, by the way, he did right here. But these are strange practices of the strangest senate even more. Here we are discussing the 9-plus Supreme Court Act. It doesn't ring a bell, so I'll say it's a ten. Fashion is now in Poland for fives and numbers. Before there was ten, before there was ten, we had five at the Constitutional Court or, for the record, three. Later the numbers decreased a bit, we had Rzepliński's solo, Gersdorf's solo, to go back to the fifty almost cancelled one night judges of the Supreme Court. There is another number, 50th, which explains that most of the court cases in Poland have extended their run by 50 days. That's average, that's authoritative. Of course, this is accompanied by other numbers, also true, five Morawiecki, five Kaczyńskis, sometimes solo Jarkowe. But I think there's an identity between these numbers, an identity that has been used for thousands of years by those in power: if the people, the people, the people, the subjects take something, then something must be given in return. And just by taking them to court, you give them money, a lot of money, not yours. It is given to create a belief that this power does not take everything away, that sometimes it gives something. People take this, citizens take these donations, for example, in the belief that they will have money to defend themselves from inhuman courts to hire a lawyer to pay the court costs. And that is logical, 500+ will have to be allocated to trials before inhuman, unfair and incompetent courts. This is the formula of the governments of the present good change. I think she's proven herself many times in practice. People who learn from the history of the nation, and in this Chamber I notice one, at least one, should know that General Jaruzelski did the same and achieved, at least after the introduction of martial law, success with a 10-million-dollar organization. As long as he was handing out wealth, privileges, positions, including judges... yeah, including judges and prosecutors. [[Talon.]] Talons, too. When I was sent to a taxi, I used to drive all these forks to special magazines to pick up new diplomas and posts. And so this mechanism, the identity mechanism of the law for money, worked. But at one point, there were no bribes for the Yankers. If the mechanism of the community is that one another robs, and yet does it wrong, then it is obvious that this is a self-exploiting community. And such a self-expanding community ended its existence with a known result. The Christian conscience did not allow this to be judged harshly. When we consider the court law today... I say that each country connects at least one core, one method of action. Anyway, in history, it worked differently. Sometimes as a religious law, sometimes as a custom. Today the world, or at least the majority, accepts that the law is written law, it is the law contained in the constitutions, it is a law based on human rights. I'm saying that if someone doesn't accept it, they make two mistakes. The first is that he doesn't know what these laws are for, and the second is that he's extremely mean because, knowing that, he doesn't want to apply them. At your right hand, you must choose whether you are puffed up with malice or driven by ignorance. However, the effects are always the same fall.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u57	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, together with Marshal Borusewicz, I had the pleasure of attending the conference. In her part, you had to go back to the Senate. That lasts in the Supreme Court. 18 Presidents of the Supreme Courts or tribunals from Europe came together. They are discussing the rule of law and the role of the bodies of the European Union, in particular the Court of Justice of the European Union, on the defence of the rule of law, and it is in Poland, at the moment. I'd like to quote some of the thoughts that came out there, because they seem to be very up-to-date when it comes to this bill. First of all, this issue is highlighted: democracy is not the tyranny of the majority. The European Union is a system of interconnected vessels, weakening one in one Member State weakens the whole of the European Union. After all, we already have an example of how we are weakening the effectiveness of the justice system, because our arrest warrant is no longer an absolute arrest warrant, it is already relative, i.e. the obligation to assess the risks due to irregularities in our country. Well, we've been there. The decision of the Constitutional Court of 2005, which assessed the Treaty on European Union, also referred to preliminary questions, is recalled. Therefore, a request by the Prosecutor-General to the current Constitutional Tribunal to examine the Article. 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on preliminary questions is a kind of complete puriazum. Here was the senator's question about whether... That's something to do with this, too. Someone says we're gonna drop the case and there's no reason to consider the question for a preliminary ruling. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Court examines the situation at the time of the application, i.e. on 14 August. It's obvious. The tribunal, contrary to what Senator Jackowski suggested in his question, is that he decides... Former President of the Federal Court of Germany, Mrs. Bettina Limerg... The discussion was in a completely opposite direction, it was said that the courts of the Member States should have the right to ask preliminary questions on the basis of the article. 2, i.e. general rules, even without a specific situation. Art. 2 These are the principles of the functioning of the European Union. The rule of law is the paradigm of the European Union, it is an obligation, not one option. That's what they said at the conference today. It's not something to be recognized or not. It's a paradigm. Ladies and gentlemen, we are hearing here about the presumption of constitutionality. Well, ladies and gentlemen, make yourself aware of the basic issue. Constitutional presumption is not regulated, there is no legal basis either in the Constitution or in any law. This is a theoretical doctrinal term, which, of course, is not absolute. See, Mr. Senator Czerwiński, the case law. You don't seem to understand one thing. We, the doctrine, the Legislative Office, which today also spoke about... The courts have the right, they have the duty, and the Constitutional Tribunal has one right which cannot be replaced by others, i.e. the right to derogate from the rule of law. Only the Court can do that. The assessment of constitutionality, of course, belongs to us, in particular to constitutionalists. You have to realize that. Otherwise, it could actually be considered that every law, every rule, even some completely nonsense, concerning e.g. the entry of a horse into the Senate would also be subject to a presumption of constitutionality. I don't think we can lead to such absurdities, ladies and gentlemen. Let's remember that. The rules we are introducing today are part of the systematic destruction of the rule of law. I'm afraid so. This is systematic destruction, this is the dolus coloratadine, this is a directional action with a direct intention to strike the justice system to strike the independence, the independence of the courts. Today at the conference it was emphasized. Independence, we say, is in the judges. That's the truth. But judges can't be required to be heroic. A system like this needs to be put in place so the judge can't... What do we have here? We have such situations that the judges are disciplinaryly responsible for the questions referred for a preliminary ruling to the Court, to our European tribunal to which they have the right to address them. [[And duty.]] And duty. Well, isn't that gross breaking the law? Isn't that what it's like to go away from these rules? And if we deviate from the rules, if we do not satisfy them, then we come from the European Union, because the European Union is simply built on mutual trust when it comes to respect for the law. And there's no need... There's no need for an army here to enforce anything. I want you to trust me to follow the rules. And let us not look at Hungarians who have implemented the article. 7. That's what we were talking about today. That's what the President of the German Court was talking about. And we use the patterns of those who break this law. After all, the very initiation of proceedings is a dishonor for a country which has adopted itself as a rule. These are the goods, the values on which the European Union is built. Without the rule of law, there is no judicial independence and there is no real right to court. And that applies to every citizen. Therefore, we will object, we will consistently show violations of the Constitution, violations of the rule of law. Until it's done. We hope that this effect will happen soon. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u60	Without the rule of law, there is no freedom. The rule of law protects us from breaking the law by those who currently have the majority. Democracy isn't just a free election. This is the first stage of democracy. And we now know that the rule of law is just as important as free elections. Our legal system is linked to the system of the European Union and it must co-operate with this system of the European Union in order to fulfil its role. The questions referred for a preliminary ruling are dialogue between the Polish courts and the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. Interrupting this dialogue will have its consequences. Interruption of this dialogue is the separation of decisions based on the Article. 2 of the Accession Treaty, which speaks of the fundamental values that all must respect. If we want to go or if you want to go the other way, do so, but do not say that you are going to the European elections to strengthen the Union. No, you're going to infect the Union with these kinds of solutions. It must be realized that a significant part of the Polish society thinks and says yes Like me. You shouldn't go through with this, say... [[It's okay.]] ...that the sovereign is right. What sovereign? Or which part of this sovereign? And anyway, when I hear that kind of statement that the sovereign is right, I know from what sources They're coming. These are not the sources of the democratic state. Ladies and gentlemen, this was supposed to be the ninth amendment of the Supreme Court Act, and at the moment we are discussing a second amendment of the National Council of Courts Act... [[Third, third.]] [[Third.]] ...third shift. It is good that you have withdrawn from the most controversial change, which was, of course, unconstitutional. And don't say that the Constitutional Tribunal decides that. Those themselves who have introduced and signed this law have decided because they have withdrawn their intention to elect the President of the Supreme Court by indicating the President, because so this part of the law was formulated. As a result, and at the end, the president points out, and in the constitution it is written that he chooses. Well, I guess there's a difference. And it is good that the authors noticed this difference and themselves assessed this passage of the law as unconstitutional. But the designer left this part... [[Unconstitutional, too.]] [[Of course.]] ...which makes it impossible to appeal in individual cases against the decision of the national council to appoint a Supreme Court judge. Which means, I understand, no permission to call. There is no appeal and there is a record that such a decision is immediately valid. You've still left the possibility of interrupting unfinished business. As regards these questions, which are so disturbing, I do not understand why, of course, this does not mean that, in relation to cases which have already been referred to the Luxembourg Court, the proceedings are interrupted and that the Court will not consider these matters. But there is the question of those complaints that can be addressed. Instead of improving the legal system, instead of enlisting in this legal system, in the general principles of the rule of law, compliance with the law, you interrupt it, you walk away from it. You are moving away from the general principles that apply in the European Union. So for me, the question is, why are you running for the Union? [[Applause]] [[New standards.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u61	Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Without enthusiasm I volunteered to speak, but I have a sense of duty, because in Poland there is perhaps not a tradition, but a context of mute and dumb senates, and I would not like this Senate to be half mute, i.e. Let's just say that no one's saying anything about this on our part. From here, as I say, no enthusiasm, but I'm taking the floor. First, however, I would like to argue with the voices that fell from the opposition colleagues, with such cassandric voices that in Poland It's not the first time these voices have come out here, and I'm trying to argue with them. The state of freedom, the state of the rule of law is getting worse, and basically everything is falling apart. [[Do you know the rankings?]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to freedom, I will repeat what I have already said several times: let us really appreciate the state of freedom in Poland. The world is changing... [[What about civil liberties?]] ...there are things going on in the world, and in Poland, if it goes like this. For academic freedom... Really, many countries can envy us. There are examples from recent days that strange things are happening at American universities, which have been a model of academic freedom for us or for us until recently. In Poland, the state of academic freedom, in terms of freedom of speech, freedom of expression, the lack of a certain fear of repression due to the views proclaimed, is, I would say, surprisingly better than in those countries that used to be a model and a reference point for us. The same is true when it comes to respect for human rights. This is also not specifically the subject of public debate, and it can be seen that Poland is becoming a country in a surprising way. This is a case-by-case situation, and I hope that this phenomenon will not expand. In which families seek asylum from the repressive institutions of their country, e.g. for fear of losing children. Such examples could be multiplied. So for now the state of freedom in Poland is really good. Of course, our duty and concern is to sustain and protect this state, because it is of course not given once and for all. Of course, the state of freedom is linked to the state of the rule of law. There's probably more problems here than in this area I've been talking about before. We are being criticised by our partners, our friends from the European Union. Well, I will repeat again what I have already said several times, what I or my colleagues have said, that unfortunately, in this political situation which is in Europe, this criticism from the European institutions is often biased and is also politically conditional. Because conservative governments, or whatever they may be called, such governments as the Law and Justice represent, in this main trend, the European mainstream are not liked, to say the most delicately, and they stand, so to speak, by definition, under a certain hierarch. It's happening. And unfortunately this, too, I would say, reduces the prestige of the European institutions themselves, which are sometimes biased. And not only Poles speak on this subject, but also the position of the German Constitutional Tribunal on this subject, even mentioned in the discussion. But despite some problems or even fights and tensions, because in the last three years there is no doubt a game or even a fight between, say, the governing party and especially the institutions, the most important or the highest, as far as the justice system is concerned, it is... Well, there's a lot to be said about that when it comes to abandoning the past, and I don't want to bring it up right now. In any case, despite these tensions and despite disputes, so far, from the point of view of the citizen, no one can specifically dispute that the state of the rule of law, the possibility of recourse to courts, the expectation of giving normal judgments... that it is working in Poland at this moment. And this particular law, which we are looking at today, in my opinion improving the rule of law in Poland does not serve. The first thing to do is to process it. I feel a little like Don Quixote, but I'm going to say it again, just like I said yesterday with regard to the procession of the education bill, that this is the wrong mode. Yesterday he was somehow justified, let's say, because of the time and necessity of providing the seniors with the opportunity to take the exams in peace. I don't really see such a justification today, and we don't really really have anybody to ask us why this is happening. So it is difficult for me to say that it is difficult to defend whether or not to argue with my opposition colleagues in terms of concrete solutions in this law. They're actually quite innovative to say. They are part of a certain game between the majority party or the ruling party and the Supreme Court, here is the game. And when it comes to the justification and defence of this bill, that's not what I'm doing right now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I could not not argue about freedom, for we all know that freedom is not given once and for all, and this is no privilege. This is the law, but also our duty to uphold the law, all rights. It is not just a matter of rights guaranteed in the Constitution. Our ancestors fought for these rights, and we must guard them very much. Taking freedom is a very slow process. Someone even compared it to cooking or heating a frog. The point is, we're getting used to it gradually. Sometimes I observe, for example, when I take the train, more and more quiet voices, less and less desire to talk between passengers. There's a crisis of trust between people. We can't be happy, Mr. Senator, because lately, as we hear, we're falling in press freedom rankings. That's a signal too. I will now return to today's bill. I absolutely agree with this thesis that the name of today's change, the name of the law on changes in the National Council of Courts... It was only because it was replaced by the name of the KRS, not the Supreme Court, because it was already started mocking and mocking that this is the ninth amendment this year. Therefore, as noted here, this is the third amendment concerning the National Judicial Council. On the issue of this conference, which took place today in the Supreme Court on the rule of law, I would like to say that 18 Presidents of European Courts and representatives of the European judicial councils have arrived there in total. And here's a note about freedom: of course our KRS wasn't there because our KRS is suspended. And this is also a signal, my dear fellows, that in this area the Polexit has already taken place. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would appeal to all of you. It is good that there has been a sobering and withdrawal from this next idea when it comes to the exchange or acceptance of the President of the Supreme Court. But I appeal to all of you: please, let's not get used to it. Yesterday we had an example when we talked about teachers' freedoms as well. Because they carry it, they pass on the most important values to young people and children, including those concerning compliance with the law... Today, we hear teachers and educators saying how they feel after breaking the protest. And today we have this sort of round table in a stadium where only one side participates. Ladies and gentlemen, in this regard, let's see... And I'm really asking you, just like I asked all of you yesterday: let's not get used to this kind of procession, let's not get used to taking more freedom, more outposts. And let us not create such a necessity that we have to proceed from day to day or hour to hour as important changes as in the Law on Judicial Affairs. Because that's the foundation, that's the foundation. All of you who remember martial law... And here, all of us, on one side and on the other, sat in the courts. We on the bench of the defendants, and Senator Silence, Senator Zientarski and others sat down or stood up for us. And, ladies and gentlemen, there was no death penalty, no, no. Fines were fined, fired from work... It was going really slowly. And you know what the effect was? It was just a freezing effect like today that judges are starting to fear. They don't talk about it, but if you have loans and you're doing a job, and you're passionate about it, then a teacher or a judge will think twice. Therefore, I appeal to all of us: let us not get used to, let us not get used to this procedure of proceding, to treat the Senate in such a way, but also not get used to free steps being taken away from us by freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u65	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klich. For the second time, right? Five minutes, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u66	In the interest of the truth... to all who, like Senator Bobko, feel that nothing has happened, I will say: well, it has happened, and all international organizations see it, Mr. Senator. Because there is no international organisation to which Poland would belong and which would not critically assess the state of the rule of law, but also generally the state of democracy in Poland in the last 3 years. Polish rating has deteriorated in all international organizations. We can exchange them from the Council of Europe, through the European Union, the OSCE, to our friendly countries and our allies, such as the United States. For me, the most objective measure, the kind of metro from Sèvres measuring the state of democracy, is the annual report published for decades by Freedom House. Freedom House is an institution from which not only America is proud, but also the whole Western world, because it has developed such parameters that it is able to measure various aspects of freedom and democratic processes and thus judge all countries because it evaluates all countries in the world. So what do we see in the Freedom House rankings? That Poland is going down. For the first time she came down in the 2018 report for 2017, and even more so in the last report published at the beginning of this year for 2018, most in the rule of law category, Mr Senator, most in the rule of law category. Again. Our allies, a renowned centre with many years of tradition, respected all over the world, show that Poland has lost the most in the rule of law category and has been placed next to countries such as Armenia, Ethiopia, China, Cambodia and Tanzania, which need to be watched carefully. Why? I'll quote it. Because the government's actions are intended to impose political control over the justice system. End of quote. This is one quote that could be multiplied. Americans, Freedom House, a long tradition, a universal measure that once we were one of the most respected examples of democracy in the last twenty-five years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u67	Thank you. We preliminarily agreed that the vote would be at 2:30, but there's still more senators coming along, so I don't know if it's gonna be real. Mr. Marshal Borowski. [[We'll make it.]] [[We'll make it.]] [[Last vote, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As is often the case, Senator Bobko and Senator Czerwiński inspired me to say a few words of a rather general nature, but very important. Well, about what Senator Czerwinski was talking about here, I'm going to say yes about one thing. I think the senator will agree that the presumption of constitutionality cannot be absolute. We are aware that there are situations where it is obvious that the constitution is breaking, and it is difficult to release such legislation and wait for the Constitutional Tribunal to speak, because it may speak in six months, a year, etc., while the law will act. The simplest example would be that, by the Seym and the Senate, there is a law in which it is written that prevention censorship is being introduced. It is clearly against the constitution, but there is a presumption of constitutionality, so it enters into force and the government immediately closes all opposition newspapers, or censors them to write only good about it. And the Court will speak on this matter after six months or a year. So we have to judge constitutionality and we have to make decisions. Of course, in cases of doubt, we can decide, however, that we are adopting such a law, and the Court will speak, but there are situations where the case is undoubted. And here were the cases where the state proposed laws, which you later gave up, or about which you claimed to be unconstitutional. That's one thing. Secondly, Senator Czerwiński said that, after all, the Constitutional Tribunal has expressed its views on the possibility of appeal against the decision of the National Judicial Council and has stated that this appeal to the NSA cannot take place because it is unconstitutional. Well, I'm already overlooking the question of the legality of this judgment, because here we certainly will not agree, but I am paying attention to something else, namely that the Court of Justice Let's accept his judgment with the benefit of the inventory only said that the appeal to the NSA is against the constitution. He didn't say that every appeal was against the constitution. It would be appropriate to wait at least for a justification to find out whether the Court considers that it is not possible to appeal at all, or whether the NSA alone cannot be referred to. Well, you're not doing it, you're instantly referring to the operative part. There you go, we're carrying out a bill, we're deleting it, there's no appeal. And it's not okay. Now, a few words about Senator Bobka's statement. Senator Klich referred to it a little bit, and so did Senator Shark, so I'll just complete it. Well, Mr. Senator, I am not saying that there is a regime in Poland today, a dictatorship that cannot be spoken, demonstrated, etc. Well, it'd be crazy to say things like that, 'cause they're not. You could say that some fairly decent level is preserved. But why am I talking about this? Because it is always an independent judiciary that guarantees freedom and civil rights. It's a guarantee. Not governments, not even the ombudsman, but an independent judiciary. And as long as it is still independent, it can be said that despite various attempts, e.g. Public prosecutors' actions, which we are constantly dealing with, can count on their rights to be protected in court. This independence of the judiciary is constantly being undermined by the Law and Justice, by the group you represent. We are constantly dealing with various laws aimed at ensuring power, the government's influence on the judicial apparatus. It started with an exchange of presidents, then the National Judicial Council was elected. And she was chosen in a hooded way, because to this day we don't know who reported those judges. How could 25 judges be allowed to submit a candidate? How? They represent the judge's environment, we don't know that until today. So much for the KRS. Then they tried to clear the Supreme Court. And you criticized it at the time. Today, we are trying to ban the judges from asking preliminary questions to the Court of Justice. Well, please note that here you are still trying to submit to the executive authority's judicial apparatus. Yes, if this were to happen, we would actually be dealing with a restriction on civil rights and freedoms. This is how it's gonna end, although you haven't done it yet, at least not quite. Guarantees and protection are here, among others. the European institutions. That's why we're in the Union, that's why there's other countries in it, and you don't have to eat it. You can't ban judges from asking preliminary questions. If the Court of Justice considers that such a question is incompatible with the Treaties, that it simply cannot answer them, it will simply say so. And if he doesn't, he'll say otherwise. And finally, Senator Oremski. He's not here right now, he's read his mouth. Article 1 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and asked Senator Pociej how he understood whether he understood any of this at all. Well, the senator didn't have it in front of his eyes, and that's what we need to sit on, so I want to explain that art. 1 paragraph 1 refers only to the Charter itself and says that the Charter does not extend the capacity of the Court of Justice No court or tribunal of Poland To consider that the laws of Poland are incompatible with the fundamental rights, freedoms and principles which are confirmed therein. In other words, if anybody wants to complain to the Court of Justice by recalling the card... The Court is not competent here, and in any event it may decide that it is not competent. But someone can complain, using a different basis, primarily from the Treaty's basis. If it refers to the treaties, to the relevant articles of the Treaties, it can, of course, complain. And that's how it's done today. By the way, there's mouths. Two that actually... It's what's in the mouth. 2. In particular and in order to avoid any doubt, nothing which is contained in Title IV of the Charter shall create rights which may be investigated. Notabene Title IV, which concerns various labour, social and other rights, has to say that it is regrettable to say The title of "Solidarity." And we just turned it off. So much for explaining. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u69	Thank you. The other senators are in line for the discussion. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to fit in time. The first point concerns the statements made here by Marshal Borowski about the lack of or not the presumption of constitutionality and whether this presumption is absolute. I'll say it like that. The constitution which we refer to here and on which individual laws are examined... I wasn't the author. That's, among other things. Mr Marshal has so constituted the role of the Constitutional Tribunal that he is the only body that determines whether the law is compatible with the Constitution, regulation with the Law, etc. The Court also finds that international agreements are compatible with the Constitution. It's all your fault. This is how the Constitutional Tribunal is placed as an infallible body which gives a judgment which cannot in any way be challenged or touched. That's life. If there's a grudge, it's not for me. Mirror and mirror. This is the first point, Mr. Marshal, of course. Two. There have been voices in this discussion, which, frankly, I'm a little scared. 'Cause if I hear that you have to talk in an undertone on the train now, because something could happen that we have, I don't know, a police state where every neighbor in the next seat is supposed to be a police informant... I admit that I didn't expect such a thing, such a saying that we have supposedly said that I was saying a jump on the freedom of citizens. If that is true, if we have a reduction in freedom, then why all the manifestations that are? In the days of the Law and Justice government, you don't shoot rubber bullets at the protesters, they can manifest themselves as they please. I'll say it like that. Of course, you can make any ideology to the actual state, but at some point you lose the cause-effect relationship. And unfortunately, some in this room have lost such a relationship. Now ad rem, that's for the bill. This bill is very short, and it's rather self-defense. I thought we might be discussing this bill. As I say, she enters into force within 7 days of the announcement, not immediately, is vacathio legis. There is one transitional provision which states what happens to the facts that the law deals with, namely those that exist at the time of the amendment. Most importantly, it is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. You could've... If I had possibly heard from you the arguments that the law does not comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, it would still be acceptable to reject it. But if he's doing it, what exactly do you guys disagree with? With the bill or with the judgment of the Constitutional Court itself? It's just that, as I just said, the sentence can't be touched. You don't have that right, this House doesn't have that right, nobody has that right. So if there's a sentence, then you have to adjust the rest of the law to it, it's simple. That's our constitution. Well, that's what you've decided, Mr. Marshal Borowski. [[Wait for a reason.]] Good. And if you think, because of course everyone has the right that this law in any way violates the constitution... There has been a lot of talk about this here in this House. Every other one is now a constitutionalist In and around the country and among journalists, commentators, etc. Well, if that's the case, then just sue her to the Constitutional Court. [[Voices from the room: Yes, sir.]] No problem. It is now up to you to decide: either there is a legal regime in Poland such as you adopted in the 1997 Constitution or not. If it's in force, that's where he's suing, if not, then propose a constitutional change. Well, there's nothing else left. But don't bring in anarchy. Don't bring in anarchy, by the way, lying about this simple text. Here one of the participants I don't want to point a finger. He said that the National Judicial Council is issuing judgments. That's interesting. She's the judge, isn't she? Since when did this... We've got members of the National Judicial Council, maybe they'll get me wrong. Does the National Judicial Council issue judgments? Is there a two-instant status there as in the courts? Ladies and gentlemen, these are the basics. Or do you have to appeal against a decision because that's what I heard, the National Judicial Council? Does the National Judicial Council make decisions? It issues resolutions, ladies and gentlemen, only and until resolutions. No decisions, no judgments. Don't mess with these modes, because then you'll be delusional, and you're starting to pick the argument to a state that doesn't exist that doesn't exist, that doesn't exist. Another issue is the contact... maybe not this law, because it will not be, I suppose, bigger problems, but in general the contact of Polish law with European law. I'm talking about the contact, because this contact is being breached, it's being moved. The fact that a tribunal in Luxembourg is taking over its growing prerogatives is everyone sees. This is already mentioned by tribunals, constitutional courts from other countries, among others. from Germany. The question is, does he have that right? Well, he's doing it through combat testing. Inputs, tries, retreats, etc. How much is he trying to do this for? As long as he is permitted by the constitutional tribunal of the State concerned. I'm just trying to check the fight as many of these prerogatives as possible for myself. I'm talking about the Luxembourg Court. There's another question, ladies and gentlemen. It could still be overcome, only that this tribunal becomes biased. I'm afraid so. It begins to play a political role, ceases to be a legal body of strict sense and becomes a political body. Well, if he gives his orders or orders or judgments at a point in time where it can affect, for example. for electoral acts, elections to local government or, as now, elections to the European Parliament, just by chance, three days before What is it that doesn't affect the state's internal policy? It is little that the Commission, little that the European Parliament, still the Court is making an effort to attack Poland. No, of course they're not attacks, they're the real prerogatives of the tribunal. Yes? But why is it announced at this very moment? Did you answer that question? 'Cause it's gonna work out anyway. As it turned out, as we said, Mr. Timmermans has no right to some things. Mr. Timmermans became, as I say, the Spring Party's outbuilding, involved in this party's convention. At some point, for a long time it was an objective element, ex cathedra acted as an objective element, which stated what the European Union meant and what it thought. No, Mr. Timmermans thinks and talks about what he wants to hear, among other things. Spring Party. Well, that's the truth. He participated in their electoral convention. He no longer had the primacy and quality of an objective body. He's just a party officer, a political officer. As I fear, I have a real concern that the Luxembourg tribunal is starting to collapse along this even slope. Because if the acts appear intentionally a few days before to influence the political situation in a given country, if those decisions, orders or orders are published to influence the outcome of the elections, it has nothing to do with the law. This is pure politics. And this is the only result of the Luxembourg tribunal's work in terms of contact with Polish law. This bill is self-defense. You were talking about the historical lynx, but you weren't arguing why she was wrong. It's just a fact. [[You didn't accept the argument.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u71	Thank you very much. The list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 2:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 26 to 14 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-senat-77-2.u72	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I inform you that the Senior Convention has made changes to the agenda of the Senate meetings in May. September of this year consisting of the appointment of an additional Senate meeting on 28 and 29 May and the deletion of the 5 and 6 June of this year from the meeting scheduled for the first week of June. The current agenda for Senate meetings will be provided to you by electronic means. I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 8, 9 and 10 May 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We return to the second agenda: the law amending the Law on the National Council of Courts and the Law on the system of administrative courts. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendments, and a minority of the committees asked for the rejection of Senate Print No 1161 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 17 for, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 51 votes against, 17 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and the Law on the system of administrative courts. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 70th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal refused to accept unsubstantiated statements which could not be established or which could not be delivered by the senator in the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of you like to speak? No. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the seventy-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The seventh sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 14 minutes 35]]
