ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u1	I open the seventy-sixth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Marek Pęk to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Marek Pęk. Ladies and gentlemen, on 21 March, Józef Bergier, senator of the seventh term, deputy chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, member of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad died. I ask you to stand up and celebrate a minute of silence in the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I inform that the Sejm at its 70th meeting on 4 April 2019 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Real Estate Management, to the Act amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Development and Entrepreneurship, to the Act on the promotion of scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund, to the Act amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws, to the Act on the rules on determining the order of filling the seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office 2019.2024 and to the Act amending the Act on the License of Restructuring Advisor and certain other laws. In addition, the Sejm adopted part of the amendments to the Act on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities at the same meeting. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the second and third minutes, I declare that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the seventy-fourth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The draft agenda, which was sent to the State by electronic means, contained a law amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and certain other laws. This law has not been passed and is therefore not on the draft agenda. I propose that items 2 to 5, 7 to 9 and items 11 and 12 of the draft agenda be considered, even though the printed matter has been delivered at a later date than that referred to in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I also propose that the order for consideration of the ninth paragraph be changed, namely the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. and consider this point as the second point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the High Chamber has accepted the proposal. I propose to delete from the draft agenda item six: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law "Family and caring', the law "Code of Civil Procedure' and the law "Criminal Code'. If I do not hear a voice of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the draft agenda? Please, Senator Rulewski first. And you're the other one, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! About three weeks ago, I proposed that the High House address the appeal to the Israeli Parliament, the Kneset, because that name is used. I have completed all the formalities, the appeal is in writing, and the justification is also additional, although there is already a justification in the appeal itself, and I would like you, Mr Marshal, to put this appeal on the agenda of this sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. This is the case we've been looking into. Are you still a member of the Civic Platform Club? [[I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Marshal. It's like he says...]] You've been to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Like what? I didn't understand. [[Like he says, when he doesn't write...]] [[Where does it say?]] [[Voice from the room: Written, but not seen.]] I didn't understand... But it's okay. It's okay. Mr. Senator, I've asked you for a reason, that justification has come to me, and today is the first time I've seen it. I'll inform the senator that according to the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure you requested that the agenda be supplemented by an item on the appeal, but I did not take into account the proposed proposal because I do not have a report on this point. If I have a report, then we will be wondering in what manner and when to put it on the agenda. There is no report. I can't bring it in. That's it. You're welcome, Senator Piotr Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I ask, Mr. Marshal, to be taken off the agenda of the item on the election of the jury to the Supreme Court. It's common knowledge. The Ombudsman of the Court of Justice of the European Union said this yesterday The Court of Justice will rule on the legality of the Supreme Court judges. This, of course, is related, as I said, to the conduct of the proceedings, to the questions of the prejudice... [[Voice from the room: Prejudical.]] [[Prejudiced.]] ...and also... [[But we know what's going on.]] Yeah, a preliminary question. The preliminary questions which have been raised in accordance with the justice system in the European Union, in accordance with the law, and the judges have the full right to do so and even have a duty to do so. And, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this issue will be examined in June... in July, I apologize very much... [[June, okay.]] ...in June, perhaps in May This is the information - and there will be a settlement in this matter. Well, if that's the case, I think it's definitely premature for us to have such an important issue... After all, we have long argued that the National Judicial Council is set up contrary to the Constitution, therefore the consequences of this original sin unfortunately still on the judges, on the whole... [[Mr. Marshal, this sin has been committed...]] ...the Supreme Court composition, which has been appointed by an unconstitutional national council, will be judged... Therefore please, Mr. Marshal, not only on your own behalf, but also the senators of our club, the Civic Platform, to remove this point from order, because we do not want to participate in this - No, I'll call it straight. The political huckie... [[Okay, I get it, Senator. I ask you to refrain from...]] In such a situation we will simply have to not participate in this part. [[Mr. Senator, I ask you to refrain from using the terms "hucpa" and "others." Please refrain from using such terms.]] Please take this request into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u5	You were supposed to file a motion and justify it very briefly. You've justified it. You are asking for the deletion of item 12 of the agenda. [[That's what I think.]] I'm against it. Besides, we've already voted it out because there were no votes against. [[I've been reporting it all along.]] Right now... Good. Mr. Senator, there was a time earlier when you should have done this, but, of course, we will pass this motion, because that is a proposal you can make at any time. It is possible to request that the order be supplemented at any time, that a point be deleted, and that is why I will put your proposal to the vote at this point. Mr. Senator, I'm very brief, but I'm going to comment. The law is in effect. There's a law. No one here has stated unconstitutionality except you and a group of people who have said it. [[That's what the Court said.]] [[What's that?]] [[Court of Justice of the European Union.]] Mr. Senator, he will. Do you know what you're gonna say, Senator? For God's sake, don't talk, Senator... You already know you're gonna say that, right? [[No, no.]] Exactly. If he says we're gonna respond to this, Senator. The law is in effect. We're already delayed in calling a jury. It is our duty to appoint them, and the Senate must not shirk its responsibilities. We will carry out our duties and fulfil them. I put to the vote the motion of Senator Zientarski. Who's in favor of Senator Zientarski's request? It's about deleting point twelve: choosing the Supreme Court jurors. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 21 were in favour, 51 against. [[Voting No 1]] Senator Zientarski's motion was rejected. Any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators want to speak on the matter? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the seventy-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that in the absence of proposals of a legislative nature to point one, concerning the draft resolution commemorating Professor Dr. Hab. Andrzej Stelmachowski's vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. After the resolution has been adopted, the session will be adjourned until 2 p.m. At 12:00 p.m., during the break, the exhibition will be opened. Professor Andrzej Stelmachowski, Marshal of the Senate of the 1st term connected with the 10th anniversary of the death of the Marshal. Around 12.30 a.m., there will be a meeting in room 217 to which I invite you senators, devoted to the memory of the Marshal Andrzej Stelmachowski. Once the session has resumed, we will proceed with the second point on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia. In the absence of legislative proposals, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. If there are legislative proposals, there will be a break and a vote after that. The Foreign Minister of the Republic of North Macedonia will be with us. I'd like to give him our resolution. Today, a break will be announced from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. After adjournment, the session will resume and run until 11 p.m. The retreats will be held today at 8:00 p.m. at St. Aleksandra in the square of the Three Crosses, and tomorrow at 7.30 in the Seym Chapel. We will resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. We will begin with the examination of point seven, i.e. the Act on the submission of certain official documents and the eighth paragraph, i.e. Act amending the Civil Records Act. At 11.00 we will begin to consider the point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. In the absence of legislative proposals, the vote will take place immediately after consideration of this point. I would like to inform you that in the event that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies and the Act on the Amendment of the Act... No, that's not... [[I don't think that's gonna happen.]] No, I don't think it will, it won't. We're not voting on this, ladies and gentlemen, because they're voting on it tomorrow. I'm taking it out of the script. Excuse me, sir, but please delete this. [[That's good news.]] That's not there. We agreed that we would vote on 8 and 9 May if these laws were passed. I'm sure about the fossils bill. Yes, and about the agricultural system No, no, no, no, I would like to inform you that the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin to consider the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating Professor Dr. Hab. Andrzej Stelmachowski, Marshal of the first term of office in connection with the 10th anniversary of death in the year of the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Welcome to the family of Marshal Andrzej Stelmachowski. Hello, Mr Stanisław Stelmachowski, son of the marshal, with his wife Elizabeth. [[Applause]] I warmly welcome the other family members: Maria Stelmachowska, Joanna Stelmachowska, Agnieszka Stelmachowska, Andrzej Stelmachowski, Joanna Brzozowska-Stelmachowska, Paulina Stelmachowska and a future member of the family of Radosław Grajczyk. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Hello very cordially arrived Mrs Alicia Grześkowiak, Marshal of the Fourth Senate. [[Applause]] Welcome very much. I would also like to welcome the current President of the Polish Community Association, Mr Dariusz Bonisławski. Hello, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and is included in print no. 1119 and the report is published in print No. 1119 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! Dear Professor Stelmachowski's Family! Mr. President of the Polish Community! The Great Honorable High Senate! I have great honor to report to the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution commemorating Professor Dr. Hab. Andrzej Stelmachowski, Marshal of the first term of office in connection with the 10th anniversary of death in the year of the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. I'm telling you, I'm stressing it. Honor and honor, because I had the honour and honor to cooperate with the professor in the 1997-2001 term also as chairman of this committee. And so it happens, so the Lord God gave and the voters, that today I also have some kind of honor. History has come to a circle. Allow me, the High Chamber will allow me to proceed immediately to submit a resolution, because the content of this proposed resolution reflects the size of this form, the size of the character of Prof. Stelmachowski. They considered this project with 2 committees, leaning on it and always with great appreciation, everyone spoke with great respect about the professor, about this great, once again I will say it, politician, professor, scientist. High Izbo! On 6 April 2009, he died. Andrzej Stelmachowski, Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland First term, Minister of National Education in the Prime Minister's Government Jan Olszewski, the first advisor to the President of the Republic of Poland, died. Lech Kaczyński for Polish and Polish affairs abroad, bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle, co-founder and long-term president of the Association of the Polish Community, activist of independence opposition, close associate of the Polish Primate Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński and Cardinal Józef Glemp and Pope John Paul II, professor of legal sciences, academic teacher, soldier of the National Army and insurgent Warsaw, great Pole and patriot, outstanding politician, devoted to the affairs of fellow countrymen outside the borders. He was born on 28 January 1925 in Poznań in a family of lawyers. He grew in an atmosphere of love and great respect for independent Poland. This idea, which connects the generation of Poles living in the country and around the world, served with determination and dedication. She remained faithful for the rest of her life. During the occupation he fought in the ranks of the Home Army. The underground fight with the German invader connected with law studies at the secret University of Warsaw. He graduated only after the war in 1947 at the University of Poznań. He worked as an assistant at the Faculty of Law at the University of Poznań (1947-1950) and at the Faculty of Law at the University of Warsaw (1950/62). In 1962, he was a lecturer at the University of Wrocław. In 1969 he returned to the University of Warsaw. Since 1970, he has also taught at the Academy of Catholic Theology. He was also the head of the Department of Civil Law at the Warsaw University in Białystok. In 1962 he became an extraordinary professor, and in 1973 he became an ordinary professor. He specialized in civil law and agricultural law. His scientific achievements include more than 160 books, courtrooms and articles. Since 1975, he has been involved in the work of the Primate Council of Churches as a member. In 1980, he became an advisor to the Inter-Building Strike Committee in Gdansk. He then served expert knowledge to the Centre for Social and Professional Work at the National Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity. In 1981, he became an advisor to the NSZZ Individual Farmers. During the period of martial law, he served as an adviser to the Interim Coordination Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity. Between 1982 and 1985 he presided over the Organizing Committee of the Agricultural Foundation. He was a member of the Polish Episcopate Committee on Iustitia et Pax. From 1987 to 1990 he held the position of President of the Warsaw Catholic Intelligence Club, with which he has been associated since 1972. Professor Andrzej Stelmachowski played an extremely important role in the preparation of the Round Table as one of the main negotiators of the solidarity opposition and the Polish episcopate in talks with the communist authorities. In December 1988, he became a member of the Civic Committee at the Chairman of the NSZZ.Solidarity of Lech Wałęsie. In the June elections in 1989 he was appointed Senator and then became the first marshal reborn after years of communist enslavement of the Senate. He was also a member of the Bureau of the Civic Parliamentary Club. From 1990 to 2008 he held the honorable position of President of the Association of Poland, cooperating with the reborn Senate of the Republic of Poland in the great historical work of restoring confidence and establishing cooperation based on partnership and dialogue with independence emigration, Poles behind the eastern border His authority, diplomatic talents, energy, determination and consequences are due to the fact that we Poles, regardless of where we live, are aware of the strength of the bonds linking us to the immeasurable, great value In the national community. He participated in a fundamental change of directions and priorities of Polish foreign policy to the day of the transformation of the Polish Republic after 1989 as one of its main architects. Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Stelmachowski remained faithful to the motto of God, Honor and Homeland throughout his life. As a man of great courage and discretion, he understood perfectly what the Polish reason of the state is. He made difficult political choices always in his sense of responsibility for the fate of the nation and the state. His attitude in life was characterized by a deeply Christian attitude toward another man, respect for his human dignity, integrity, vocabulary, modesty and honesty. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the person and the work of the first Marshal of the Reborn Chamber, who has had such a significant and positive influence on the course of the history of the Polish Nation as an outstanding statesman, highly deserved for the Homeland and public affairs. We feel the heirs of the legacy of the Senate and its Marshal and the successors of the mission to care for Poles and Poles abroad. Hello His memory! The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Finally, I would like to add the words contained in the draft resolution of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, but because of the amendment they were not included in the text presented just now. And these are very important words, and I think that's how we feel. I'm going to quote Professor Stelmachowski's thought so that we can feel that he's here with us. I'm sure he's with us, and looking from above, he's happy and proud that his homeland remembers him. His authority and his way of life are ready and tested examples to follow. I think that through this resolution, through the exhibition, by today's talks these patterns will continue in the minds, hearts and memories of present and future generations of Poles in Poland and abroad, like the thought of the Marshal of the Senate Andrzej Stelmachowski in his words expressed during the first Senate meeting of the first term of office on 4 July 1989: Poland, where a friendly smile will wipe away sorrow and tears. I ask the High House to adopt this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a question to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, and I would remind you that the applicants also authorised Senator Janina Sagatowska to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Family! I was given to live, act and fight together with Marshal Stelmachowski, then professor, professor, who was born by the economy of Wielkopolska Land. I emphasize the word "professor" because he represented this ethos of Polish intelligence, which was not only about performing professional functions. After all, this resolution indicates how much work he had. You could say he was a decent man, an outstanding man. But Polish intelligence was not enough. Polish intelligence reached above, wanted more for you, wanted even more for your loved ones. It is obvious that in those days he wanted, he wanted sovereign Poland. But while she was gone, he built a center of political, social thought, which was building this sovereignty to meet those challenges and opportunities. We met in Bydgoszcz, but also in Gdańsk, when he built the subjectivity of peasants, when he participated in very difficult activities, uniting peasant communities, organized by the communist regime to collectivise in various forms. He was involved in countering this. He organized it. 'Cause that's all there was at the time 'The Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers. It is written in this resolution, and rightly so, that very actively... But you can add in the protocol that he was the author of the script. And this is where this intellectual ethos of Polish intelligence manifests itself: he was not just a counselor, he worked, he acted to ensure that the subjectivity of peasants, then, in the commune, the most persecuted social layer, gained the right dimension, his rank. At this difficult time, when the national regime struggled with the subjectivity, in various ways, trying to get the peasants to the PGRs and later to the circles, Marshal Stelmachowski showed this courage and realized the thought that these environments would eventually be acquired. Contrary to Moscow's voices, Moscow's clear voices The dimension, which today, I say, shows its greatest fruit. Because it is true that Poland has achieved great success in reconstruction or even reconstruction, and even expands the spheres of freedom. We also achieved this thanks to the local government. But, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest economic success Poland has achieved as a result of the reconstruction of Polish agriculture. I'm not gonna give you any statistics here. Well, maybe one. When we put paper on meat, we brought in billions of dollars' worth of products. One could say that the commune even lost sovereignty because it asked the Pope and Reagan to send these few tons of wheat. And today, Europe is bowing down to power. But maybe it's not that big yet. Polish agriculture, Polish peasant strength, peasant work, land values, location and European integration. And it is this investment in the freedom of peasants, which cost only, or maybe until, a fight, including the victims of death, that I remind here about Peter Bartoszcze, about Fr. Popieluszka, who also came from the peasant family, caused us to have the greatest efficiency, that Poland has food security. Europe needs Poland because it is its granary. And since we're reminiscing here today, we're celebrating... It's worth it not to end with memories. It's to make history a science. And here's the lesson: let's be a community even more. And a word at the end. The Senate Marshal of the first term of office was able to unite people from different backgrounds, I would say ad hoc appointed, appointed thanks to the support of the civil committee headed by Lech Wałęsa. I hope that, like Marshal Rataj, also from the peasant environment, like Marshal Stelmachowski, we will still experience times where we will be a greater community than we have ever been. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u9	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Antoni Szymanski made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution commemorating Professor Andrzej Stelmachowski, Marshal of the First Senate in connection with the 10th anniversary of death and the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all senators voted yes. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution commemorating Professor Andrzej Stelmachowski, Marshal of the First Senate in connection with the 10th anniversary of death and the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] I ask you to approach the presidial table of Mr. Marshal's son, Mr. Stanisław Stelmachowski. I'd like to give you the Senate resolution. [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] High Izbo, adjourn until 2:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 38 to 14 minutes 04]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. We proceed with the second agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. Welcome to the meeting of the Foreign Minister of the Republic of North Macedonia, Mr Nikolay Dimitriov. I'm very happy to welcome you. [[Applause]] Hello, Ambassador of the Republic of North Macedonia, Mr. Waszył Panowski. [[Applause]] Welcome very much. Hello, Minister Lorenzo. Thank you so much for coming. Hello, Minister. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1139, and the Commission's reports In prints No 1139 A and 1139 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Excellency! Minister! Mr. Ambassador! Dear guests! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, a report on the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. The committee meeting was held yesterday. He was at that meeting. Also present today, in the plenary session of the Senate Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The act itself is, of course, a typical short ratification act. It confines itself to the formula of giving consent to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, to signing an appropriate amendment to the North Atlantic Treaty. However, the importance of this ratification, this international action, cannot be overestimated. The decision on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO was taken at the NATO Summit on 11 July 2018. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, it confirms the continuation of the open door policy, it is a testimony to the will to strengthen and unify the European continent. NATO enlargement policy is still fundamental to strengthening the security and stability zone in Europe and around its borders. Following the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO under the provisions of the Treaty, the Republic of Poland will be obliged to provide military support to a new member of the Alliance if necessary. In turn, the existing decision-making and cooperation mechanisms of the Member States within NATO will not change. As we know with regard to the international perspective, the process of accession of North Macedonia to NATO was not easy. There were certain tensions between Greece and Macedonia. There was a dispute about the name of Macedonia, but this dispute was resolved positively. The adoption by Macedonia of the name Northern Macedonia allows it to enter the Alliance at this moment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish state expresses its hope that the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO will bring tangible stability throughout the Western Balkans, which will constitute a positive change in the security environment around our country, a change conducive to the smooth and free development of the Republic of Poland. Of course, we are also aware that NATO's expansion policy is still an unfinished task that is ahead of us. I think that this accession will also lead to good prospects for further expansion of the North Atlantic Alliance, for example by countries such as Georgia and Ukraine, and in the future also by the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden. As a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, we undoubtedly want to strengthen the Alliance and maintain exactly what I said earlier, namely this open door policy. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I recommend that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jan Dobrzyński, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Excellency, Ambassador! The Committee on National Defence, which has been sitting today, recommends that this law be adopted. The purpose of the Act is to give its consent to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. In view of the fact that the Protocol is an agreement which concerns military agreements, it requires ratification with the prior consent of the Act, in accordance with Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Constitution. Maybe I'll quote a note. - He's a short piece. 1 of the Act under review today: The President of the Republic of Poland is hereby authorised to ratify the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. I'd like to show you, Mr. Marshal... [[Yes, I'm listening.]] ...as a representative of the Republic of Poland, that our country and our parliament were among the first to adopt such a law. We are very pleased that Macedonia will be among NATO countries. Congratulations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jackowski, please. Which senator are you asking the question to?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u14	Thank you very much. Senator Dobrzyński, I think, because he mentioned a case I'd like to ask you about. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I have the following question. You mentioned that Poland is one of the first countries to ratify this... [[Yes.]] Is the number known... Was there any mention at the committee meeting of how many countries have already ratified this protocol, what is the number of these countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u15	We didn't mention this so clearly at the committee meeting, but I hope that we are the fourth, fifth country... [[I know 10 countries have ratified.]] No, no, I think we're the fourth, fifth country, so... [[Which one, Minister?]] ...we are now at the forefront... [[Well, we're about to ask the minister.]] Hence my point that we are one of the first countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u16	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask the rapporteurs another question? No? Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the position of the government in the course of the work. Once again, I welcome you very cordially to Minister Piotr Wawrzyk. Are there any questions for the Minister? If anyone wants to ask... Minister, I will ask: how many countries have ratified this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u17	Ten.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u18	Ten countries. Thank you very much. Are there any other questions besides my question? There isn't. TC discussion opening \l 2 \n I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that Senator Bogdan Klich has signed up. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Mr. Ambassador! This is an important moment in our House. An important moment is that we feel that we are putting our hands together to strengthen the Atlantic Community, the community which, according to the Washington Treaty, is based on values. It will therefore be more sure that in Europe values such as democracy, human rights, such as civil liberties, such as the rule of law, that all that is written in the preamble to the Washington Treaty, will be protected in a stable manner. NATO is there to safeguard, guarantee the security of its Member States, but also guarantee respect for values. Macedonia has done a great deal of work over the last many years. We watched it from the perspective of Warsaw with true respect. Macedonia has done great internal work. It is a stable country, a country where dialogue between ethnic groups is the basis for the functioning of the state. Macedonia has a good relationship with its neighbours and, finally, thanks to the leaders of both Greece and Macedonia, it has achieved a solution to the dispute which was a dispute blocking Macedonia's accession to NATO. Northern Macedonia, then, recently called Our partner and ally in the North Atlantic Alliance will be very pleased. We are very pleased that the stability of the Eastern Alliance is dependent on the stability of the Western Balkans. There's no doubt about that. And stability of the eastern flank is essential for the security of Poland. Therefore, the recent enlargement of the Alliance to Montenegro, and at the moment, Northern Macedonia, at the same time, is stabilising the security of our country. For this reason, it can be said that although the ratification act is short, the matter is extremely serious. Therefore, on behalf of the minorities, on behalf of the opposition, I would like to stress that we fully support this ratification act and see its contribution to the security of our country. Welcome aboard North Macedonia and we are pleased to accept the bill and ratify the protocol And as for the fact that it will happen, I have no doubt We contribute to the security and security of North Macedonia, and the Western Balkans, and our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Ambassador! High Izbo! Dear guests! This is a very important moment when the North Atlantic Pact, which passes away, and rightly, as the greatest military-defence alliance in history, is enlarged, especially in the south-eastern dimension, at this south-eastern end, which is of strategic importance because of collective security. It is very important that relations between countries that are now going to be together in NATO are also regulated, and that all these problems, which were due to different historical and political conditions, will thus be brought to an end. So that it remains to express its joy that NATO's potential as a military-defence alliance is increasing and that the situation in the south-eastern regions of our continent is stabilising, so we have a clear view of the issue at the moment and there is a clear situation. So that I express my great appreciation for Polish diplomacy, which played an important role in this process. I am pleased that Poland is one of the first countries to ratify the protocol. The Minister mentioned that we are in the top ten, so this shows that we are an ally responsible, tested and who appreciates such initiatives as broadening the membership of NATO Member States. That is why I am very happy and congratulate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, above all, the representatives of North Macedonia on the fact that we can be in one ally family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u22	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u23	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Excellency, Mr. Ambassador! I didn't expect to have the opportunity at all, Mr. Marshall, to say what I'm going to say, because it's going to be the words of gratitude and thanks to the Republic of Macedonia. And I'll tell you for what. In 1987 it was quite difficult in Poland. Macedonia was then part of Yugoslavia. I was an actor and director, and I was invited with the crew of the Old Theatre to Prolep, where we visited a lot, apart from the magnificent, wonderful monastery where we lived for over two weeks. There, Mr. Ambassador, we have prepared a performance that was then played in Poland for several years. In addition to your helping us and your country's funding for this stay, we have yet to experience such friendship and warmth. 'Cause, of course, we performed in Bitola and Skopju. That I cannot, Mr. Marshal, allow myself on such an occasion to say these beautiful words to thank you all, beautiful people. And those who do not know Macedonia, I strongly encourage you to visit this country. What else is beautiful about it? The fact that it is very easy for us to communicate, because the Macedonian language, having its cores, of course, in the Old Slavic language, is so close to the Polish language that communication between us is beautiful. That's why today as a senator I welcome you very warmly here and thank you for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u24	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed with the vote on the committee... Minister, do you wish to speak? No, I don't think so. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 59 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. [[Applause]] Please approach the Presidency table of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of North Macedonia, Mr Nikolay Dimitriov. I'd like to give you the Senate resolution. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm holding a two-minute recess until 2:25 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 23 to 14 minutes 28]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u25	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Act on one-off payment for pensioners in 2019. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1140 and the report of the Commission in print No 1140 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act on one-off provision of money to pensioners adopted by the Sejm on 4 April 2019 in 2019. The Act on one-off cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners adopted by the Sejm sets out the conditions under which persons entitled to a one-off payment of PLN 1 000 100 gross, i.e. PLN 888 and twenty-several net cents. Persons entitled to this benefit will be persons entitled on 30 April 2019 to pensions in the general scheme, pensions of farmers, uniformed services, bridge pensions, benefits and benefits, social pensions, teachers' compensation benefits, parental supplementary benefits and pensions of war and military invalids. One-off cash benefits will not be granted to persons whose entitlement to benefits was suspended on 30 April 2019. The right to benefit will be re-established if the right to benefit does not exist, is suspended or is entitled to payment of the benefit. In the event of a coincidence, the right to more than one benefit to the entitled person will be granted one single benefit. A one-off cash benefit is to be paid out of office. The period for the payment of benefits is due in May, with the exceptions foreseen for payment in June. One-off money benefits decisions will be issued and these benefits will be paid by the competent pension authorities. In the event of a coincidence of the right to benefits which are paid by 2 authorities, the Social Security Office will be responsible for the decision and payment of that benefit. The amount of this benefit will not affect the entitlement of applicants for benefits, donations, benefits, assistance or support. The amount of this benefit may not be deducted or enforced. Over this bill, the committee... I have presented to you the most important elements of this regulation. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy discussed this law yesterday. In the discussion they spoke, among others. Senators Augustyn, Libicki, Rulewski, and Minister Zielenecki answered. He determined the number of persons who would be entitled to the benefit, for 9 million 800 thousand, and the amount that would be spent on this benefit and would come from the Social Insurance Fund, defined as within the range of PLN 10 billion 800 million. As a result of the vote, the committee recommends the high Senate to adopt a draft resolution on this law. Most were in favour, no one was against it, so the bill was passed, and two senators abstained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u27	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur did not mention that during the work of the committee a minority request was made by Senator Augustyn and Jan Rulewski. The authors of the minority proposal do not in principle question what is called a one-off payment law for pensioners and what is called in the common language by some thirteen, and by others by the jarka. I don't want to introduce column tones here, I'm only doing this to explore the essence or perhaps find out in this room what is the essence that is included in the subject of this bill: a one-off monetary benefit for pensioners and pensioners. We know that this is for pensioners and pensioners, and we know that it will only be once, although pensioners generally live longer than a year. Besides, the bill doesn't ration spending for a whole year, just for a little bit of a year. This name is important for us, for people who deal with legislation, because we want to establish the axiology, the philosophy of this supplement. And here we have learned from the Minister, I think we all know that the thirteen will be paid essentially from the Social Insurance Fund. The KRUS is out of the question, because, as you know, there are no resources, they are almost public. We find out further that the legal case law on possible appeals will be based on the procedure contained in the FUS Act, even further, that the handling of this whole issue And they're not gonna do any of the other services, they're gonna do the F.U.S. Let's face it, however, that this benefit is not social, it is not insurance-related, as the FUS's tasks regarding pensioners and pensioners would indicate. It's, well, let's say, an earring. And let's stop by the fact that his genesis is probably that one day, perhaps on a Christmas day, Mr.Jarosław Kaczyński woke up, looked at the ballot box and saw that something was missing, that there was little support. So he came up with something called "jar." I don't blame myself for that. I make things up myself, too, not always happy. But the project was presented by the government. As we know from the assumptions, the government is not the owner of the Social Insurance Fund or others. In my opinion, I'm saying it so briefly. The government is the owner of this fund, to which the citizens of the insurance company entrust their directly and accurately written contributions. The Minister, saying that this money would come from the FUS, argued that the right to decide on these contributions It's government law. Up until now, I thought that I, the insured, had some rights, that my contributions and on the other hand the FUS obligations were included in my account. And, of course, there are still constitutional guarantees of the government. But let's just leave it at that, it's my own speech, because I want to report a minority motion. If we assume there's such a thing that the good change team wants to help the pensioners 'Cause that's what she said. That he wants to improve their material situation and defined it at the level of a minimum lump sum benefit, then, of course, the question must be whether this is fair enough. Well, the minority proposal states that a good host first corrects the situation of those he has wronged. And the minority's proposal concerns the retirement pension of 1953, the large group of over 100,000 pensioners who were entitled to early retirement, but later, as a result of the changes to the law, those early retirement pensions or pension decisions were covered by some sort of sequestre. Because when these people were still working or not working, and they had already gone through this universal rather than early retirement, it turned out that they had to deduct the amount of pensions they had previously paid. In effect, this meant that some of these ladies lose several hundred zlotys. Unsatisfied was large, common. And these ladies or other people have petitioned. As a result of these petitions, the Senate adopted in 2016 an initiative that would introduce a good change would restore justice and law. Unfortunately, with the votes of the state, with the votes of the PiS, decisively and, as it happens, with discipline and the military government... the good change rejected this solution. And that's how we stayed with the wrong solution. It could be said that once, on 6 March, the Constitutional Tribunal decided that this solution was contrary to the Constitution, to the motion of the court, but in the absence of support, even the opposition of the parliamentarians of the PiS... again to zero, unanimously passed, it ruled that the constitution had been broken and, in particular, that these women had been harmed. And you could stop at that. Finally, in this democratic state of ours, we have a procedure whereby a Senate or a group of senators can take an initiative to correct this error. Because it was Parliament, to tell you the truth, that passed this bill, that Parliament changed the rules of the insurance game almost during the game. And we would not put forward this initiative, this minority proposal, maintaining the purity of the declared single benefit. Atoli creates a legal node around the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. What is it? To be honest, this is not easy and I do not know that I will be able to convince you enough to support this important problem. Well, according to the law, - Since you're asking for specifics... I think it's in accordance with Article. 401 of the Civil Procedure Code, ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal... the time limit within which a person who considers himself to be harmed may apply shall be 1 month. The ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal was published in the Official Journal of the Law on 21 March. Therefore, those who consider themselves harmed and under the wrong law have only 10 days to apply for a recalculation of pensions. And we're still talking about a 1953 yearbook because that's what the court asked, I think it's a court in Szczecin. But there was a group of women who were dissatisfied. These women brought a claim to court that was dismissed. I think they've all been dismissed, yes, they've all been dismissed because of that legal order. Those people under a different rule, I think it's an article. 145a of the Civil Procedure Code, they may request the reopening of proceedings and have three months to do so, so here's a milder solution. Except, I'm paying attention here, reopening is also an indication of damage and other circumstances. There is also a duty that they must live because the benefits in the universal system are only for the living. There is also a third group: those who have not appealed have continued to trust the State, recognising that the benefits covered by this sequester are right. The fourth group, smaller, pulled their... Otherwise, she would not have received any pension due to the decision-making process. And now we're in a difficult situation because of which this minority request has arisen. The point is to extend the subjective scope of this bill to include women from the 1953 yearbook. The second argument is reality. This reality is about today. I hope we're all witnessing this. Hundreds of women, if not thousands, have already applied to the Social Security Office and the KRUS for the payment of benefits, for the conversion of benefits, but, in the absence of legal regulations, they do not receive it, even refuse to initiate proceedings, which may mean that, in the light of the application of the 5-year limitation period, these persons, which I do not believe, will not receive what the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled. Hence our request, ours, the authors of the minority's motion to meet them in the name of social justice. What is a possible counterweight? Senator Mejer, among others. He stressed that this was not the subject of this law. However, we say, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, it should be done in a normal rhythm, but immediately as the Court ruled. Only now it means that these people will fall out of the legal system, even meet with a negative legal decision. And I think that the High Chamber, the House of reflection, should not agree, should implement this principle of social justice. It's normative or, let's say, the Court's procedural ruling that we are not allowed to extend the rules subjectively... In this case, we should recognise that this justifies the well-being of these people, the possibility of conflict, tension and that the harm, the harm done, let us be frank, by Parliament No indication of which side did this. It will be repaired on this occasion. There's another case I'm afraid of, and in this case, I'm gonna convince the House to support it. There's a period of generosity now, so to speak, financial. The minister talked about how many times the pensioners had been corrected. This includes a minimum of PLN 260 million and a maximum of PLN 1.5 billion, because there are people who make these claims by extending the 1953 yearbook by 1952, 1951 or in the case of men of 1948. I'm scared. I'm continuing with this topic of generosity. That this generosity also has its limits, and for these women there will be no resources, or cases will be constantly fought, analyzed. And we're dealing with who? With older women. Biology is inexorable. You can see it from me. Hence, High Izbo, I ask you to support the request of minorities and solve an important social problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u29	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My question is to Senator Majer, the rapporteur of the majority. Mr Senator, I would like to ask, at a committee meeting, did the representative of the applicant government justify the ratio legis of this aspect of the bill, that the universality of the benefit is so far-reaching that its beneficiaries will also be those who will receive a very high pension, a pension often reaching PLN 8 This also applies to some group of senators who take pensions and have quite high benefits. What was the justification for the universal nature of this benefit, which will also be given to the wealthiest or those receiving the largest pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u31	Please. [[Can I answer that?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u32	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the first sentence I will address the venerable Senator of the previous speaker: my name is Majer, Richard Majer. [[I'm sorry.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, the question of universality was indeed discussed at the committee meeting. Government comes from such an assumption that it should not be shared the group collecting pension benefits for smaller groups, sub-groups, no economic thresholds should be introduced. The principle of universality, which is the universality of the operation of this benefit... They are characterized by universalism, that is, they all receive it. We don't divide a group of pensioners into better and worse. We assume that every person has free will: if he thinks he has too much of his own money in his account, he can share it with NGOs, with those who need it, with his family. So that we do not introduce any income criterion, which is the result of the accepted principle of universality and universality of this benefit.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u33	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u34	Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, I have a question about the sources of funding. Were the sources of funding for this project presented to you during the committee meeting? If so, I would like to know from which source these projects will be financed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These 10 billion 800 million will come entirely from the Social Insurance Fund, which this year, due to the low level of unemployment, i.e. the high level of employment in the economy, is exceptionally good. So that the government can afford to pay such a one-off financial benefit to all those receiving pension benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u36	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u37	Mr. Senator, I have one more question about the source of funding. As I understand it, the Social Insurance Institution will finance this venture from its income. You've been talking about extremely good income this year. Could you tell me how much this year's income is greater than last year's income, except for the subsidies?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister didn't give us such detailed information. I think you can ask the minister that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u39	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Mr Richard Majer I don't want to make a mistake... Mr. Senator, the benefits will be paid to people who... Here is the entry: one-off cash benefit is granted to persons who on 30 April 2019 have the right to... And here is the whole list of points, types of benefits to which they are entitled. In the 2019 budget, these measures were obviously not foreseen. My question is: how do you plan some expenditure for a given financial year, for a quarter or a half year, if there are changes... Why is there such a date in this bill? Because this is about people who on 30 April have the right to these benefits. Where did the date come from on April 30th? This is the first case. The second is the sources of funding. As I see it, it will also be financed by the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. If you don't mind... what are the amounts from the Labour Fund and the benefit fund? As far as I know, in recent discussions with teachers, which were conducted, there was also a proposal to transfer money from the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Workers' Benefits Fund, but there was a negative opinion, I mean the government did not take action in this direction. I would like to know how much money from this labour fund will be spent on these one-off benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the information provided by the Ministry at yesterday's meeting, the date of payment of this single benefit is linked to the traditional payment of the so-called. Thirteen in the economy. Those 13s are paid at the end of the first quarter. The government is trying to preserve this element of such a late spring but still spring, single supplement. That's why it's time. It's the end of April. Thirteen is paid by the end of the first quarter. Here we're trying to say, catch that time... Since the FUS allows it, it is within this deadline that we want to pay this witness. The second question concerns very detailed calculations. I suggest we redirect them to the Minister, who probably has such a very detailed division. We didn't exactly discuss it at the committee meeting. There was information that it was money from the Social Security Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u42	Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u43	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour and great pleasure to present to the High House the assumptions adopted exactly a week ago, because on April 4, 2019, the Act on one-off provision of money to pensioners in 2019. The Act provides for the granting, and at the same time the payment of one-off benefits of PLN 1 000 100 gross to all persons entitled to benefits of a broader pension nature. As mentioned in the rapporteur's statement, the law is based on the principle of universality, i.e. assumes that all persons having a fixed pension right under different schemes, i.e. from the scheme of general social security, from the scheme of social security for farmers, the scheme of pension provision for professional soldiers and officers of uniform services, as well as persons entitled to social benefits, to pre-retirement benefits, to benefits from the scheme introduced not so long ago, "Mama 4 plus ', i.e. parental supplementary benefits will be provided on the basis of a one-off cash benefit on the month-to-day payment of the pension benefit. As regards persons who will be entitled to these benefits, the number that has already been given here, namely 9 million 800 000 persons, consists of 5 million 740 000 persons entitled to a pension under the general scheme, 1 million 230 000 persons entitled to a survivor's pension under the general social security scheme, 753 000 persons receiving invalidity pensions from a social security establishment, 12 000 persons entitled to teacher compensation benefits, 27 000 persons entitled to a bridge pension, 47 000 persons entitled to benefits financed from the budget of the State contracted for payment of ZUS and KRUS. As regards the agricultural social security scheme, this entitlement will benefit 901 000 pensioners receiving benefits financed by the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and 197 000 persons receiving invalidity pensions. They will also benefit 43,000 people receiving family pensions under the agricultural insurance scheme. In addition, 402 000 persons receiving pension benefits under all pension supply schemes of uniform services, more than 100 000 persons entitled to benefits and pre-retirement benefits, 282 000 persons entitled to social pensions and 65 000 persons who are currently in the process of acquiring the right to parental compensation. As far as financial issues are concerned, the total cost of financing the benefit is PLN 10 billion 793 million. That's what it's made up of. I'm paying attention to this. The amount of PLN 6 billion 322 000 to cover benefits paid to persons entitled to a pension under the general pension scheme, PLN 828 million, which will cover the costs of payment of one-off benefits paid to the pensioners for incapacity for work, PLN 1 billion 359 million, i.e. the cost of payment of one-off benefits to beneficiaries of survivor's pensions under the general scheme, PLN 14 million as a cost of payment of the teacher's compensation benefits, PLN 29 million as a cost of the benefit to be paid to persons receiving the pension, and PLN 52 million is the cost of payment of benefits to persons entitled to other benefits, the payment of which was commissioned to the Social Insurance Institution and the CRUS. As regards persons entitled to agricultural benefits, the costs of payment of one-off benefits which will be addressed to agricultural pensioners are PLN 991 million, those addressed to pensioners entitled to a pension for incapacity for agricultural work - PLN 217 million and those addressed to those entitled to family pensions - PLN 47 million. As far as benefits are concerned, which will be paid to representatives of uniformed services, this is PLN 442 million. As regards the cost of benefits paid to persons entitled to benefits and pre-retirement benefits, this is the amount of PLN 111 million. Social pensions PLN 310 million, parental benefits supplementing PLN 72 million. I draw attention to the fact that we are talking about different categories of benefits, benefits paid under different social security schemes, broadly understood. And I would like to point out that the cost of payment of this single benefit will be financed from those funds that finance benefits that are widely understood by pensioners and pensioners on a daily basis. If they are pensioners under the general scheme, the Social Insurance Institution will finance these benefits as part of the funds planned in the Social Insurance Fund. If we are talking about benefits under the agricultural system, this cost will be borne by the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. If we are talking about other segments of the social security system, i.e. those where benefits are financed by the state budget, the state budget will bear the costs of financing one-off benefits to pensioners in 2019 on the occasion of May payments. I would like to say that as far as procedural issues are concerned, I think that here it is worth paying attention to those solutions that are included in the Act. We have tried to simplify the procedure for applying for a one-off benefit in 2019. This means that these benefits will be determined by law. Retired persons and pensioners will not have to apply for such a benefit. Competent entity First of all ZUS, but also the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, pension units paying benefits granted to the so-called. Uniform pensioners and rencistom It is simply ex officio to determine the right to this benefit, the relevant decision will be made, this decision will be served on the person entitled and on the occasion of payment of the benefit for May, it can be said that the payment of this single benefit will be made. The time limits within which these benefits will be paid are differentiated. Actually, every person like that. The pensioner, the pensioner, the person receiving the pre-retirement benefit, the pre-retirement allowance, is used to the term, knows the time limit within which the benefit is paid on a regular basis, permanent within the social security system, and at the time of payment of that benefit for May will be paid. Some benefits are granted... It is, you can say, an exception in our social security system, but we have such cases They relate primarily to certain benefits of the agricultural system That benefits are sometimes paid once a quarter. So in the case of this kind of paycheck... The payment of this single benefit will take place in June. I think that's it. As for the axiology of this solution, because this thread also appeared here in earlier speeches of senators, I think the goal is quite clear, and the axiology is quite clear. This axiology would be summarised as follows. In fact, the amount of any pension benefit granted in different social security systems is a derivative of, you can say, our insurance biography, our pension biography. In short, the longer we worked in the past, the higher our income, the higher our pension contributions, the higher our pension benefits. Once we retire, we become, you can say, a social security customer, we get the pension benefit we have, the benefit that comes from the previous salary. The Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly pointed out that the so-called. the ability of pensioners to adapt to changing conditions during the period of the pension benefit is limited. It is limited due to age, it is also limited due to the ability to work. It can therefore be said, taking all this into account, also taking into account the shortcomings in the mechanisms relating to the determination of pension benefits, as well as the determination or valorisation of pension benefits, that in recent years we have applied And in this respect, we were consistent. The various mechanisms to correct the system solutions contained in the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act. We have applied solutions that modify both the mechanism used to determine the amount of the benefit and the universal rules for the valorization of these benefits adopted in the Act. I will draw the attention of the honourable states of senators primarily in 2016 and the decision to pay one-off pension allowances. This payout was then linked to a low rate of valorization. It could be said that it meant additional support for people receiving relatively lower pension benefits. Let me remind you that we applied a similar correction mechanism in 2017. Namely, the decision was made to increase unprecedented amounts of the lowest pension benefits, to increase pensions and the lowest pensions by the amount of... Maybe not by the amount, but by 13%, up to the amount of PLN 1 thousand. Let me remind you that this year too, we have applied such a correction mechanism adopted in the pension law the principle of the valorisation of pension benefits in the form of so-called. the guaranteed amount of the increase in the benefit. Persons who, due to the amount of the benefit, would receive an increase in the benefit at a level of less than 70 PLN as a result of the valorization, have just been covered by a guarantee of an increase of at least 70 PLN. This solution, which I am pleased to present to the High House and which is included in the Act of 4 April 2019, is actually part of the actions aimed at improving the material situation, the material existence of pensioners and pensioners. That's how I see it, so to speak, the axiology of this witnessing. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u45	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I'd like to ask you for a consult. It is a government project, very quickly carried out both in government and in the Sejm. What was the public consultation on this issue, whether there was a request in the consultation to introduce a income threshold, or whether the government was wondering at some point about the introduction of an income threshold for this benefit? Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: For each question separately...?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u46	There you go, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u47	Dear Marshal, High Izbo, I have a consultation report in front of me, so that these consultations have been held. All representative organisations within the meaning of the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue, i.e. both trade union organisations and employers' organisations, including other organisations to which we have referred this draft law, here I am thinking primarily of the organisation representing pensioners, the Polish Union of Residents, Residents and Invalids, expressed their views in this consultation process. I would not like to refer these numerous positions in detail to the High House, but I would say this: the threads which appeared during these consultations in some opinions concerned, as if the systemicity of this solution, i.e. it was an extraordinary, one-off solution planned for 2019 and we presented our position Just what I had the opportunity to present to you just now. Namely, we paid attention to the fact that these solutions, although one-off, are, however, in line with... Because today we are talking about a law, a draft law, and this law provides for a one-off payment of benefits in 2019, but we are also talking about solutions that form part of a broader context, into a broader system context. I think that by looking at these solutions that were introduced, starting from 2016, in the following years, we can say that they are part of a broader system context. Of course, the financial thread is also a very important thread. We have pointed out that we are currently dealing with a very good situation in the labour market and this is a consequence of the good economic situation of our country. I also pointed out that actually the social security system and the labour market are connected vessels, the better the situation on the labour market, the better the income situation of the Social Insurance Fund. These actions, which the government took in previous years, sealing the employment system or sealing the labour market, resulted in an improvement in the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund. I would like to remind you, for example, of the solutions introduced in 2016 for the so-called cover-up. contracts-orders and the elimination of the principle of payment of social security contributions only from the first contract-order, regardless of the amount of remuneration envisaged in such contract. We have raised this coverage threshold for civil law contracts to the minimum wage level. These are actions from the labour market area. I also pointed out that we have also taken action in the area of social security contributions collection system by the Social Insurance Institution. I will mention here the so-called project. On the one hand, e-spots, which simplified the process of collecting social security contributions, helped to eliminate the errors that occurred during the process and on the other hand improved the discipline of paying social security contributions. This is a solution that, you can say, is included in the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u48	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[Of course I do. We signed up.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[Something's not working out for you today...]] I said, "Senator Rulewski." Please. Are you asking a question or not? [[Of course. Can I have three questions?]] But you know the rules. Right? There's a minute to ask a question. [[I asked if it was possible to 3 instead of...]] [[If you can make it in a minute, you can.]] Please, if you can fit in 60 seconds...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u49	Good. Minister, what will the government take to implement the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 21 March concerning women of the year 1953? How much is the deficit? In agreement: revenue for expenditure FUS? Is it true that the government's public debt to pensioners and pensioners amounts to PLN 260 billion? And four. Is that the generosity of the state? Your statement says it's very good. It could mean the insolvency of the FUS in the years to come, what are you talking about by Professor Uścińska?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u50	And the other two questions? They were supposed to be 3... [[It's in the next round.]] [[There were three or even four.]] Oh, there were three. Okay. We are, I think, after a rather thorough discussion on the system of financing pension insurance or the pension system that took place during the committee meeting. I think I had an opportunity to answer some of these questions from the senator during the committee meeting. The first point is how you understand the deficit senator. How do you understand the pension deficit? [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u51	Well, it's turning into a discussion. [[15 seconds...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u52	The difference between revenue and FUS expenditure, including a grant from the State budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u53	Good. During the committee meeting, I explained that our pension system is a so-called system. Repartitional, i.e. a system based on intergenerational financing, on the financing of benefits received by persons currently entitled to a pension for incapacity to work from contributions from active persons: employees, business persons, contractors, etc. The categories of persons subject to insurance are different. As regards the data on the current financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund, it may be worth comparing the financial plan of the Fund for 2019 with the implementation of last year's financial plan. Thus, with regard to implementation in 2018, the income of the Social Insurance Fund amounted to PLN 238 billion 472 million 254 thousand. PLN 238 billion. As regards the expenditure of this fund on various pension benefits, or more broadly: social security benefits These were expenditures in the order of 231 billion PLN 621 million 70 thousand. In short, we had expenses of about PLN 7 billion lower than the income of the Social Insurance Fund. If I am talking about improving the financial situation, which is a consequence of a good situation on the labour market, then I am talking about increasing the income of the Social Insurance Fund. We're in the so-called social security fund plan. This plan provides that the income of the Social Insurance Fund from various sources will amount to PLN 244 billion,981 million. We assume that the expenditure of this fund will be the expenditure of PLN 246 billion 260 million. So we see this trend when it comes to the level of revenue. Speaking of deficit, the senator probably meant that one of the sources of income from the Social Insurance Fund is a budget grant. During the committee meeting, I noted that this is a normal phenomenon occurring in every social security system based on the classic construction of bismarck social security. The same is true in Germany, which is the homeland of social security. The measure that allows us to determine to what extent the expenditure on benefits is covered by contributions is so-called. coverage indicator. This coverage ratio is at a very good level, at close to 80%. Close to 80% expenditure on benefits shall be covered by contributions paid by insured persons. For example, I've already given this example. In Germany, this rate is 82%. This, of course, is reflected in nominal values. As regards last year, the amount of the budget grant to the Social Insurance Fund was PLN 35 billion 822 million. With regard to the financial plan for this year, we plan that this grant may amount to PLN 49 billion 390 million. It's hard to talk about a deficit in the system.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u54	Senator Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this week I hosted a tour of retired people and renownists from Mummy porcelain plants, usually women who, when I said that we were going to debate this law this week, addressed this issue with a big applause. I want to remind you that these are women who have worked in a very difficult environment in the past, surrounded by silica, the kind of dust that settles in the lungs. I have two short questions. The first relates to family pensions. Will the child receive this witness after a dead parent? And in what proportion if there are several children in one family? And a second short question. At some point in the discussion on this submission and consultation, there was such media coverage that former Security Service officers would be deprived of this benefit. Was that a thought, and was it maintained in the final project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u56	The issue of family pensions. During the committee meeting, I explained that, too, because there were questions from committee members. We must remember that a family pension is a derived benefit. So it's a benefit that a family provider is entitled to in the event of death, but is entitled to the pension insurance of that deceased family host. This is the construction of a survivor's pension. Of course, we know that there may be more than one person entitled to a family pension. It could be a spouse, it could be one child, it could be more children. It can be said that when building this benefit, which we are discussing today, we have applied exactly the same principle as we apply in the case of family pensions, which means that one family pension is payable after the deceased. If there are more eligible persons, this single survivor's pension shall be divided equally among all entitled persons. And the exact same mechanism was applied in the case of this law. So, in short, if we are talking about one person entitled to a survivor's pension, this person will receive a full benefit of PLN 1 thousand 100, and if the person entitled is more, then this benefit... [[That's when. 1/3 each...]] Yes, sir. ...this benefit will be divided into equal parts between all eligible persons. With one exception. With one exception, I'm paying attention. Namely, we have in the Social Retirement Act a provision which allows the possibility of combining the collection of social pensions, i.e. benefits which are entitled to an inability to self-existence arising before the attainment of the age of... In the case of persons who are entitled to such benefits, there may be a situation in which such person is also entitled to a survivor's pension. He is a member of the family, one of the hosts of this family has died and this person has the opportunity to combine a social pension with some part of the family pension. Notice that if we took this solution in such a pure form in this situation, this person entitled to a social pension would be harmed. Because if she had only been entitled to a social pension, she would have received a full one-off benefit. Therefore, for this category of persons, we have made an exception to the fact that the person entitled to a social pension and to a survivor's pension will receive a full one-off benefit of PLN 1 000 100 gross and, secondly, will not be taken into account as regards the distribution of this one-off benefit among other persons entitled to a survivor's pension. This is the solution we have planned in this law, and we consider this solution to be well-founded and well-founded. As regards the issue of the benefits of the officers, I would like to draw attention to the context already mentioned here in the discussion. This is a benefit that is entitled to... which is universal. Right? It actually serves all persons entitled to widely understood pension benefits. Importantly, the amount of PLN 1 000 100 is payable regardless of the amount of the benefit received. We must bear in mind that in the group of people who receive pensions we also have people who receive benefits at a very low level. We have pensioners in this group, for example. persons entitled to a pension of less than the minimum benefit. These people will also receive a benefit of PLN 1 thousand 100. The solutions that the senator mentioned here, whether he was asking about the former Security Service officers, were, of course, in place. It's about the main benefit, isn't it? This was a reduction in fixed benefits. It seems to us that the introduction of something like this in a situation where we are based on this one-off benefit on the principle of universality and equality, the principle of 1 000 100 PLN for every pensioner, regardless of the amount of the pension, would be a necessary breach of the legal structure adopted here. [[And it would trigger the reaction of an institution like the ombudsman.]] There is no special regulation here for this group of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u57	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Here's my question. This is a question of the time when we are working on this law. During the adoption of the budget, there was no indication that such a benefit was to be paid. Information about him appeared quite suddenly, and it is a big expense. And my first question is this. I understand that the budgetary situation can be good in connection with the sealing of the VAT system or as a result of various other government activities. But wouldn't it be safer to do that, for example? at the end of the year, when it would be known that there wouldn't be any, so to speak, economic downturns, economic development? It seems quite surprising that this is done in April, when the state of the budget is not yet well known, because we are only after the first quarter. Aren't you afraid there'll be trouble paying that benefit? And question two. You said this was an extraordinary witness. If this is an extraordinary witness, it must be caused by extraordinary circumstances. I would like to know what are the extraordinary circumstances that make this benefit due to be paid on that date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u59	As far as the first question is concerned, I can assure you that this is a project that is deeply thought out. This is a project that is very well counted. This is a project that has been, so to speak, very well stocked with financial instruments. I have no doubt that the project will be financed entirely without any problems and that the implementation of the law will not adversely affect the situation of public finances. I was talking about how I understand the extraordinary or the once-in-a-lifetime of this project. In fact, during the discussion, you talked about the fact that this is a project that, in the common language, in the language that we use in public space, is called the thirteenth pension. So when it comes to the term itself... I'm the payout date, which is May 1st, I'd say I'd say close to the deadline when the employees of the budget sphere receive thirteenths, which is... [[Because there's no election...]] ...one-off benefits... [[Uh, no. Come on.]] [[Calm down, please.]] ...such annual prizes. Right? With regard to urgency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say frankly that I have examined the solutions that have been adopted in the previous years, which I have mentioned since 2016. If you had looked at the procedure for working on the law which introduced in 2012 the allowances for pensioners, you would have seen that these solutions were adopted in this House, also in the Sejm, two to three months before the planned deadline for the payment of these benefits. I've got the exact data right here. In 2012, the decision to grant such pension allowances was taken in January 2012 and the payment took place on 1 March of the same year in the context of the valorisation of pension benefits. So, in fact, each of these extraordinary laws was adopted in such a sudden mode. Like I said, there's nothing unusual here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u60	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u61	Thank you. Minister, I'm not a member of the committee, which is why I don't understand everything. This is a very short bill. If you have it in front of you, take a look. I'm talking about art. 2. In the mouth. 2 is such a provision: a single cash benefit shall be granted to persons who, on 30 April 2019, have the right to... And now it is listed 16 items: benefits from the Act on the supply of war disabilities, benefits from pension insurance, etc., etc. However, in the same article, in the same paragraph. 4 is such a provision: the right to a single benefit shall be re-established if it appears that at 30 April 2019 the right to benefit referred to And that's what I was quoting. In Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 (2) 2, it did not exist, was suspended or was entitled to payment of that benefit. Well, let's take the first criterion: it didn't exist. I don't really understand why we're saying that if this law didn't exist on 30 April, it's re-established. What kind of reassignment? According to your mouth. 2 This one-off benefit should not be granted in such a situation. I don't really get it, Minister. Would you mind explaining what's going on here? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I already explain...]] Second question. Right away, if you don't mind, I'll ask them quickly. Well, I'm not done yet. It's the Labour Fund, Minister. It is known that employers do so. This is 70 zlotys with pennies in the case of these standard contributions. What part of the Labour Fund will be transferred to these one-off benefits? You said it was well counted, so I'd like to know what part of the Labour Fund will be allocated to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u62	I already told you, Mr. Senator. [[If you...]] 111 million. [[111 million. Oh, okay. Thank you. Then that leaves the first question.]] Well, you have to appeal to, so to speak, the basic principles of social security. Since, as I explained to you, most people, the vast majority of those who will charge this one-off benefit, it can be said that we apply the principle that the right to benefit is based on the construction of an entity's right, which means that if I fulfil the conditions for the acquisition of the right, I have the right to that benefit, and the decision of the relevant authority is merely declaratory. She merely states that I meet the conditions and am entitled to this benefit. She doesn't have a constitutional character. This is reflected in the procedure for applying for a benefit. Namely, this procedure is such that the Social Insurance Institution states that the insured person fulfils the conditions for acquiring the right to benefit at some time after he has applied for a pension. The establishment shall determine the right to a pension as at the date of submission of the application, so if it were found that payment had taken place and, at the time of the application, someone did not comply with those conditions, the right would be re-established. And this is the mechanism that works, you can say, in the direction. The Social Insurance Institution may sometimes not have information that the right to benefit was granted on 30 April. If, at a later date, he issues a decision stating that he is entitled to such a right, he will have to reopen the proceedings and issue a decision conferring the right to this one-off compensation. As far as suspension is concerned, I think here we have clarity about the nature of this institution. Of course, there are benefits that differ from this model here. Let me remind you that we are in the process of determining the right to parental supplementary benefit; this procedure started on 1 March 2019, i.e. with the date of entry into force of the Parent Supplementary Service Act. It can be said that this benefit is also addressed to a group of persons who will have on 30 April a supplementary parental benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u64	Minister, I've asked a lot of questions, but we haven't had enough time, because there's already been another committee meeting. I have two questions left, so I want to ask them now. Namely, among the various sources of funding, probably not among the basic ones, because I have noted those parts which consist of the financing of the benefit, also the expenditure on national defence is mentioned. What size and what expenses are to be reduced? That's the first question. What expenses in terms of national defence are to be reduced? We keep asking about the situation in ZUS, and I'm interested in the situation in KRUS. According to what the Minister said, without details, the expenditure from the KRUS on this one-off benefit will amount to approx. PLN 1 billion. Please tell us whether we can talk about as good a situation as in the CRU, or whether we will simply need to increase this 1 billion PLN grant to the CRU. So what's it gonna look like in this register? I'm talking about the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u65	Let me get this straight. First of all, I would like to draw the attention of the senator to the two provisions that are contained in this law, the article. 14 and Article 14 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of Art. 14 provides that in 2019 two provisions of the Public Finance Act are not applicable to benefits paid from the funds at the disposal of the Social Security Office and from the funds available to the President of the Agricultural Insurance Fund. Art is more important. 15, which gives both the President of the CRUs and the President of the CRUs the opportunity to submit applications to the Minister of Finance for the transfer of budgetary expenditure planned in the part under the responsibility of the authorising officer concerned, i.e. for these 2 entities in the part of the financial plan of the CRUs and in the case of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund in the part of the CRUs financial plan. I stress: this authorisation to transfer budget expenditure between departments, chapters and paragraphs of classification of State budget expenditure. Exactly the same principle applies to the part of the budget mentioned by the senator, the Ministry of National Defence. In the event that the measures planned for the financing of pension benefits for professional soldiers... the same applies to the pension supply system for police officers and other services under the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. If these measures, which are planned, are not sufficient to cover expenditure related to the financing of this single benefit, this will be the basis for a proper transfer of appropriations. Of course, the law itself does not provide for or does not specify from which heading, chapter and paragraph of classification, in this case the part of the budget under the responsibility of the Minister for National Defence, these measures, as I stress, would be transferred.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions: the first detailed and the second more general. I sign with both hands under this bill, but I would like certain points to be clarified. First question: why in this set of 16 types of entities, persons who are entitled to benefit under Article. 2 (2) 2, were there no deportees for forced labor to the Third Reich or the Soviet Union? I suspect I know why, but please explain this for documenting purposes. That's one thing. Secondly, it is typically procedural. Namely, the organ actually Let's assume that the ZUS will perform 2 operations: it will issue a decision and pay the benefit. The benefit is certainly paid to the person entitled to the benefit of his own motion. Article 6 (6) (a) 1. But in the article. Paragraph 7 1, talking about a decision, there's no way it's out of office. Please note that in the law on FUS art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 Then there is an exception: after the retirement age has been reached by the recipients of the benefits, the pre-retirement proceedings are initiated ex officio, but until the retirement age has been reached, there must be a request. And here is the situation that there will be no decision, because there will be no cash benefit paid, because you should not be At least in the opinion of the authority, because this benefit is e.g. suspended. So, what does that person have to appeal against? The appeal procedure shall be defined in the same Article. Paragraph 7 4. What do you want to appeal to a person who at least thinks Is he entitled? From what decision, if this decision is not made, and it should be made out of office? General provisions state that proceedings are initiated upon request. The witness is paid out of office and everyone knows it. But as I say, there will be this narrow group. Am I right, Minister, and what's next with this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u68	I think that's not how I read this recipe. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Insurance Institution, but also any other institution, will not pay the benefit when there is no basis for it. And the basis for payment of the benefit is the decision. If, therefore, the payment of the benefit takes place ex officio, the decision shall be taken on the matter This is the result of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 is also ex officio. So that's how you can...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u69	Excuse me, Minister, I'm gonna ask because maybe I wasn't clear. It's not about positive decisions. I mean negative decisions, which state that Mr Iksiński does not have the right to a single benefit for such a reason. Well, technically, the ZUS doesn't have to spend it because he doesn't pay anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u70	No, it's different, ladies and gentlemen. The assumption is that... [[How will this be technically done?]] The assumption is that... If we are only talking about ZUS, because of course those entities that will make decisions and pay benefits is more... On the example of the Social Security Office, we can actually say that the Social Insurance Institution will accept that the person who is entitled to this main benefit, i.e. he is entitled to a pension or a pension which he receives regularly, every month... I think that simply does not require any specific administrative procedure to be carried out which ends in the adoption of an administrative decision. If the Social Insurance Institution pays this basic benefit, it may assume that the person concerned is also entitled to this one-off extraordinary benefit. And the problem you're referring to is that we've already discussed, i.e. a provision which provides that, if it were found that this right to benefit was not created, it would be possible to resume the proceedings. So this is how we plan to grant these benefits. The aim is to simplify this procedure as much as possible and so that those who receive basic benefits in the form of a pension may receive this benefit on the occasion of that payment in May. [[And that's the first question, Minister, about the deportees?]] As far as deportees and other categories of persons are concerned, of course those who were injured during World War II and after the war, veterans, war and military invalids, people who were forced to work in mines... There are more categories of people, in general, injured or deserving of the State. These people are included in this catalogue of people for whom this one-off payment will be made? I mean the article. 2 laws. We have in this vocabulary, for example, points about persons entitled to benefits within the meaning of point 1 of the Act on the supply of war and military invalids; point 3 of the Act on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war period. So, in general, the idea is that we assume that this is a benefit which is payable to persons entitled to a pension. Right? In this group of persons there are also those who receive disability, military or veterans' benefits. We have paragraph 11 on civilian blind victims of war. So the vocabulary, so to speak, takes into account all these situations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u71	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u72	First question, Minister. The Act talks about witnessing in 2019. Every pensioner and pensioner will understand that if he becomes a pensioner and a pensioner in 2019, he will get them, and that is not true, because only the pensioner is the pensioner when the bill is passed. You're not afraid of it, and that's the first question that mayan retirees will rise up like the former women of the first quarter? Second question. I know you're overtired with all these different outbursts, but you haven't answered me two questions. First: is it true that the Treasury's debt to the pension system amounts to PLN 270 billion? The second question, important, up-to-date: what is the government doing to implement the Constitutional Court ruling on women in 1953? That's the question the Ombudsman asked the government, and I'm joining him. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u73	Maybe I'll start at the end with the third question. [[Good.]] We had quite an interesting discussion with the senator during the committee meeting about this ruling of the Constitutional Court concerning women of the year 1953. With great attention and interest, I listened with admiration to the senator's statement, in which the senator gave the reasons for this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. I missed one in this speech, let's say that actually one sentence, that is to say, the answer to the question of who caused this beer, which is, in short, who did this injury, which the senator mentioned, who reduced the pension benefits of women in the year 1953 who decided to take advantage of the possibility of early retirement. I think that the plenary session is also a good opportunity to draw attention to the origin of this ruling. And this ruling, ladies and gentlemen, concerns a law which, in addition to the amendment mentioned by the senator, introduced a different one, I think a very important change in the pension system, namely that it increased the retirement age of women and men by the end of the sixty-seventh year of age. I think we all know who the author of this bill is. Assuming that, so to speak, by introducing a non-constitutional provision, a provision that violates the view of the Constitutional Tribunal's view of the principle of citizens' confidence in the state, harms women, contributes to the reduction of their pensions, and the imputation, as I say, of a legislative error, of this constitutional delicacies to Parliament, I think, is unfair. I think we all remember whose hands, so to speak, this bill has been passed. I have already declared during the committee meeting that this is the beer that the previous parliamentary majority has caused, or the mistakes that were made then, we will fix. That's what I declare. That's my answer to the senator's question. I don't remember the other two... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll answer one of the questions in one word: no. It is not true that the Social Insurance Fund deficit amounts to PLN 270 billion. I feel like I've already answered that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u74	No, no. The deficit of the state budget towards the insurance system is classified by the European Union... It is the reality of the immediate solvency of the pension. The debt now amounts to PLN 270 billion. Of course, this is hypothetical, but the European Union counts it. The second question was whether you were worried that, as a result of the ill-sounding title, you would be able to determine the retired of May, because those who are not retired today, and who will be retired at the end of May, will not get it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u75	As regards the interpretation of the title of this law, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members to the fact that 2019 in this title appears as the year in which this one-off benefit will be paid. However, we have detailed provisions of this law specifying the conditions under which persons who will have the status of a widely understood pensioner in 2019 will receive these benefits. And one of those conditions. It's an art. 2 (2) This is so that the persons to whom the benefit will be granted have on 30 April 2019 the right to one of the 16 benefits listed in that provision. So that's the interpretation of this title of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u76	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u77	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I'm just a short time away... and I'm also hoping for a brief financial answer. [[Tax.]] Minister, in the plan that we adopted for 2019, there was no such item. It appeared in 2019. The Minister said that there is a very good financial situation, so we can afford it. Tell me, what is the first quarter's income in relation to the plan, or tell me, on what basis do you make an opinion on good financial condition in 2019? Will there be more income or less spending? Exactly how will this be financed? Is there an increase in revenue in relation to the plan, because this is the picture of the situation after the first quarter, or are we not going to implement one of the positions? Or maybe that's the third option. Are we going to apply for an increase in subsidies to the FUS?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u78	I will appeal to the plan and to its execution. Of course, we are talking about 2 months, because the most recent data I have on the implementation of the financial plan of the Social Insurance Fund in 2019 concerns 2 months. And it's like this. As far as the revenue plan is concerned, we have revenue in the plan. I've presented this value before. At PLN 244 billion, 981 million. We use a parameter such as the planned execution of this financial plan as at 26 March, which is almost at the end of the first quarter. And this planned implementation, as regards the income side of the Social Insurance Fund plan, is at the level of PLN 255 million. Of course, these benefits will not be financed exclusively by the Social Insurance Fund, because... [[Billions...]] Billions, yeah, yeah. 255 billion PLN 418 million. From the funds that are operated by the Social Insurance Institution... Although the Pension Fund will be included in the financing of these benefits. As I said, there are more sources of funding. Regarding issues concerning today's situation, it is my answer or my conviction, the certainty that the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund, but also other funds that are linked to the labour market, that I talked about this system of connected vessels It is based on the assumption that the trends we are seeing on the labour market, i.e. very low unemployment, because we have 5.9% unemployment , rising wages and increasing labour force participation rates of Poles, increasing number of insured persons in the system, which shows that the various negative phenomena that occurred in this area, e.g. Escape through social security, gray area, as far as employment is concerned... These trends allow, in short, such optimism. [[Mr. Marshal, one more question about...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u79	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u80	Minister, to what you have said, just one more question. Were these trends mentioned by the Minister already visible in the end of 2018 or did they appear in 2019? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I understand that the senator is going to ask another question if it could have been planned earlier in the financial plan...]] I didn't plan this, Minister. I'm just gonna say this so we don't have to ask any more questions. Minister, were the trends that you are talking about very beneficial to the fund, to the budget, to the economy, trends that emerged as, say, permanent elements in 2018? I don't judge if it's right or wrong... Was the budget cut very, very carefully because something might come up? That's one concept. Or we're building a very tight budget, hoping that some of the elements, if something happens, we're not really gonna make it... I'm asking about the mechanisms.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u81	Here's what I'm gonna say. This trend, which we can call a good situation on the labour market or an orderly labour market, is a trend. or a condition that has been present for some time. I think there was an improvement here in 2016. It's a tendency that's persisting, I'd say. If we look at the unemployment rate, we will see that it has been at a record low for some time. Pay's on the rise. [[Prices are rising, too.]] And we must not forget that these solutions... Different. This trend, this situation, has been taken into account in the budgeted decision on the correction of this year's pension benefit valorisation mechanism. That's what I mentioned. Right? This year's valorisation was not limited solely to the application of the percentage rate of valorisation, the price-payment ratio, but was supplemented by an element of the guaranteed amount of benefit. Of course, there are elements or phenomena that are difficult to plan. I can give you an example of brexite here. Today we do not know exactly when Britain will leave the European Union. Nor do we know how the Poles who had gone to Great Britain and started working there will behave. We do not know what part of these people will return to Poland and seek employment here. There are elements that are, let's say, uncertain. These are elements that can also affect the situation in the labour market in some way. [[Mr. Marshal, the Minister has not answered one question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u82	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u83	Minister, you asked yourself a question that I no longer asked, but I expect an answer, because it is a very crucial question. Let's get back to history. If this project had been a good idea, it would have been planned during the adoption of the budget, as was the case in January 2012 in relation to the payment in March, then everything would have been okay. But that's what happened now, and that's why there are questions in the political space. And I'd ask for an answer. Couldn't you have planned this when you adopted the budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u84	I told you about the history of these solutions. I understand that you were not planning on paying pension allowances in March 2012 either. This decision has also been made, you can say, ad hoc. Right? In January 2012, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) As I say, we're analyzing the situation. Like I said, we're analyzing budget execution. We see that the situation is good, that so far there are no negative trends. Our optimism is justified. We have made a decision, we believe that the public finance system, the Social Insurance Fund, as well as the Labour Fund, which is also linked to the labour market, simply afford to pay such a single benefit.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u85	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm talking again, but now I'm talking to a small group. The teacher retired early on the basis of an article. 88 Teacher's Cards. The amounts constituting the sum of the amounts of pensions collected shall be deducted from the basis for calculating the final pension received after the relevant age has been reached. Question: Will this benefit also be deducted? It is otherwise called, it is not a pension, but there is no record in the Act that clearly states that it will not be deducted from the base after reaching the retirement age if the teacher is now taking early retirement. If this were the case, if it were to be deducted, it would mean that such a teacher would fund himself this 1 thousand 100 PLN, from future pensions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u87	Where would I look for answers to that question? We're actually talking about these solutions that Senator Rulewski here is quite a lot... [[It's still...]] No, that's actually... [[...about the details.]] That's exactly the same problem. We are talking about people who have benefited from retirement in the old pension system. A teacher, as the senator says, who used the so-called. early retirement and retirement was calculated by the end of 2008 according to the old formula, the formula of the defined benefit... We're talking about the same person that I'm going to use the shortcut. It wants to retire again, it is a person born after 31 December 1948, i.e. it is formally incorporated into the new pension scheme, taking into account its date of birth. The new pension scheme is based on this principle: the pension base is the amount of contributions recorded in the individual account of the person concerned and these contributions are divided by the average life expectancy of the person in retirement. The Act gives the possibility to retire, but this capital, you can say, is the basis of the dimension which is taken into account in the so-called. the second retirement, in accordance with Article. The 25th Pension Act shall be reduced by the amount of the payments of those benefits which such person has previously received. Notice that, given the structure of this benefit, first of all its flat-rate amount, I am talking about the amount, right, that it is the benefit of the same amount to any person who fulfils the conditions for acquiring the right to a pension There is no reason for this payment to be deducted from the basis for the calculation of the second pension, calculated according to the formula of the defined contribution. In the context of the amount of the pension, I will say that this one-off benefit is not related to the insurance biography, its amount is not related to either the length of the contribution period or the amount of those contributions, it is not linked to the amount of the basic benefit that each of these eligible persons receives on a daily basis. This is a one-off benefit in the same amount, 1 thousand 100 PLN, each person, whether he receives a low pension, sometimes very low, less than 100 PLN, or has a high pension. [[It's clear, Minister.]] It's separated from the insurance biography.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u88	But it's to be paid in a situation where someone hasn't retired, let's call it what you call it. The question is, will this amount of PLN 1 000 100 be to him... Is that what this is going to be about? After all, he received it as a witness, not as a pension.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u89	The second argument, Mr. Senator, I would like to reassure you: terminology. Notice that we're not talking about this... We use the term "Thirteenth Retirement," but in public space, right? The title of this law is not a coincidence, i.e. the Act on one-off cash benefits to pensioners in 2019. Thus, even taking into account the terminology of this law, if we were already strictly in line with the terminology of this law, it is not a pension that will be deducted from the basis of the dimension to be adopted for the calculation of the second pension of a person who has retired earlier on the basis of separate provisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u90	No further questions. Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answers. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u91	I'm on my way, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna make a few points so I don't take up too much time on the bill we're doing here today. First of all, I would like to say what has already been said in my question to the Minister, both at the committee meeting and here in plenary. The Minister called what we are talking about an extraordinary solution. It is clear that extraordinary solutions are applied under extraordinary circumstances. It seems to me that this extraordinary circumstance is simply the election year and the election campaign. Of course, for those who receive this witness, that is good. But it is also worth being honest with each other here and saying that this is the main reason for this extraordinary solution. And I think that's why this operation is being carried out in April, not for example. October or September. Because the point is to make this effect work in the social dimension. Of course it's... [[In October, too...]] Yeah, it might look different in October. But I think it's a question I asked in a series of questions. Do you have all this well-counted? It's up-to-date. Because if what you're talking about happened, for example. At the end of September, we'd know more or less what state we have after 3 quarters. It is harder to estimate this condition when we start the second quarter of this year. Many things can happen for the next six months, many factors can affect the state of the cash register and the possibility of financing the programme. Another point of substance concerns the income threshold. I was referring to an example... Because there was a discussion at the committee meeting, Senator Augustine referred to an example of a palanquin whose revenue is probably 31 thousand PLN. For example, I will refer to what I referred to at the committee meeting, perhaps less drastic financially, but for this I am closer to show that I am talking about something that is very much relevant to me. This is an example of my parents. My father is 80 years old, my mother is 78 years old. My father, in the first term of the European Parliament, was a MEP, together with Marshal Bielan, and therefore has the right to a European pension, and since he ended his contribution period at the age of 70, his entire retirement allowance amounts to about PLN 10,000. My mom has a low agricultural pension. A total of 2 people on a retirement farm who do not have children's expenses, on shoes, on everything they spend on young marriages, have almost 12 thousand zlotys in total. The question is: Is it right for such persons to receive such a witness with such a charge? I think the income criterion here would be an important criterion. Surely there would be people for whom this support would mean much more. The argument under the title that this witness can be downloaded, and then passed on to someone, refers to a very noble element of human nature, but we know that human nature is not only noble, and that if anybody gives, it is generally anyone who is entitled to take it and use it for his own use, will do so. That is why I think that such a criterion is important. It would be interesting if, however, the income criterion was in force here. I would like to draw attention to something that was or was a representative of the governing coalition or government camp, a well-known social policy specialist, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski. He said in one of the interviews that a pension without tax, i.e. a project of the Polish People's Party, would be a better solution here, more beneficial for people who would be entitled to this benefit, and above all a permanent solution. I urge not so much to take it at the moment as to discuss it, so that it may sound and be discussed in the space of people who are involved in social policy. I urge you to do this with the hope that one day such a project will be carried out. Finally, the last question. I take it that's what I'm gonna say, a camp that runs seriously. The governing camp firmly claims that there are resources for this, that this does not jeopardise the budgetary situation. I presented my doubts here. But okay. Since you are saying that this can be done, that the budget can afford it, I am telling you that I will vote in favour of this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! A lot of words came out here. It seems to me, however, that these words need to be brewed in pension matters. Let us be honest with ourselves: in the context of the justification of the law, it is important to know that the situation of pensioners in Poland is bad. The replacement rate is low, the benefits are low and it is hard to satisfy. Our committee, which is considering the ministerial document on the situation of seniors in Poland, had the opportunity to know exactly the reasons for such a situation. It wasn't long ago that this speaker talked about employee capital programs. We told you why they were needed. Because the prospects are even worse than the present. Scissors between wages and pensions spread out every year. You could say that in a good year like this, the difference increases even faster. Of course, pensioners need to be helped and they need to be helped systemically, and they need to be helped wisely, and this situation needs to be changed decisively. When you read not some unofficial material, but the forecasts of the ZUS itself regarding future benefits, it is difficult to be calm and say that it is good. Because the gap in the pension system today, with a very good economy, is high, 20%, and reaches nearly PLN 50 billion. Of course, if it weren't, we'd probably be talking about valorization differently. It was also noted, as I recall, that the Minister presented this, I think 23%... that it covered all those who we spoke about here clearly that they have benefits below PLN 2 000 400, so they belong to people very poorly endowed, and hence those 70 zlotys, to help them somehow. And then the Minister said that we couldn't afford any more, that we couldn't set that threshold above, or increase that amount. And it was quite recently, really, just three months ago. That's why he can turn his head not only in this case. If it's really budget, we don't know. For some, as the Prime Minister says, there are 30, and 40, and 50 billion more, for others who are on strike today, it turns out that there is no. Once we hear that there is no retirement, the second time, that it is so good that we can give. Well, as I say, the situation of the pension fund does not allow for a decent pension in Poland and this is the most important. That is why it was an attempt to save the situation through employee capital plans to improve this situation in the future to reverse it. From this conclusion, those who have the lowest benefits, the low benefits, I have so far fully agreed, especially when it comes to valorisation. We should increase as much as possible. Especially since 260 000 people have less than the lowest pension, there is an urgent need for intervention here and every penny will be welcomed with gratitude. But it must also be remembered that those who have suspended contributions who may expect large pensions I don't know how many of them will retire this year, but they're also big groups. Those who have high pensions do not necessarily need this money. And I really think it's unreasonable that when so many people have very low benefits, give money to those who do not expect it and who have very large monthly payments of pensions or pensions. That is why I do not understand this and I cannot agree that at the expense of the poorest of the pension system, which is poorly able to repeat: poorly able, enough for poor benefits to finance those who are doing very well. This is an outrageous situation, and it shouldn't have happened. And I think retired people should know that you want to give to those who have a dozen, twenty-six thousand dollars each, and they get a small amount of funding once a year, and every day they cry poverty. If it weren't, you wouldn't have to finance drugs, introduce employee capital plans, tamper with valorization to help the poorest. Therefore, Minister, speaking about the fact that the FUS system has proven to be highly efficient is absolutely excessive or at least very relative. Our pension system is not capable enough to provide decent benefits to those who are now downloading them, and even less powerful in terms of the future. That's the truth, not the other. And in that situation, you do what you do, you try to make up for the mistakes you've made in some way. Because if today you're the president of the CSO and the others... There are many such studies, but they are all compatible. All these studies say that the rate of replacement of wages with pensions will decrease in Poland, that instead of getting closer to the objective set by the European Union, saying that decent pensions are 60% The rates of replacement, we're gonna move away from it. You've reduced your retirement age, you've cut your efforts to equalize the retirement age of men and women, and you've aggravated the situation in this system. Minister, the source of prosperity in every country, in every place, is work in every family, not retirement. And the source of a good pension is work, not 13, not a single injection. It seems to me that if the government were to keep its word, when it reduced retirement age and cut back on efforts to equalise the retirement age of men and women, kept its word and actually devoted sufficient resources, sufficient resources to activate older people, then we could think about constantly improving the fate of future pensioners. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] I'm almost done. And this is the way of system solutions: support for all those who want and can work, so that they can work together, without anyone's grace, without anyone's thirteenths, decent pensions each month. You haven't made such a proposal in a long time. This is a really serious mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u94	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This witness really works in public life as thirteen, although, as I repeat, thirteen is not, because thirteen is a dozen percent, more than 60% income earned for the past year in the enterprise and even in the budgetary unit. This law has its second name: And I believe that this is the advantage of this law, that it has this name of the Jarkowa. One would like to say that this is the Janosik Act, which some people are talking about here. Which means we take the rich and give them to the poor. That's what made Janosik a legend. But also because he applied this principle in the state or in the non-sovereign community, in the Austrian elections. We live in a free state, no one is stalking us, but here comes the new Janosik, or Jarek. What's Jarek's quality? Jarek is a man who makes contributions. He doesn't take his own 'cause he has that kind of power, and then he gives it away... At the same time, it retains the benefits for itself of political benefits, for its political class in the form of high salaries, wages. For this reason, this law is in fact suitable for basketball. If we add that another advantage is linked to the ballot box, which is very important to Mr.Jark, it can be said that the bill is not only suitable for basketball, but also for change. Why? That's because, ladies and gentlemen, we are interfering with a very important value, the largest in the Polish budget. Today we are talking about 260 billion PLN, which citizens, or actually contributors, have contributed to their future. And this contribution is taken by politicians, but not to increase it. Although I appreciate the effort of a good change, that there is discipline that there is an increase... But then it gets worse, because then they say, which isn't just a phenomenon in Poland. Yeah, well, if we've got it figured out, then we're gonna run it. And that's abuse, that's to say, kind of piracy. How, on a systematic basis, can this system, as Senator Augustine has suggested, be operational? It is true that, as far as heights are concerned, it cannot meet the requirements that Poles have, which are often compared to citizens of other countries. But the system can be clear and transparent without such interference. Here's the question. You don't have to answer, Minister. 'Cause it was... If we're doing this one-time thing here, why would we do that? Mr., the man of Solidarity, i.e. As it were from the delegation of "Solidarity', it does not accept the well-known principle in insurance, that so many benefits, how much contributions? And who's the most in Poland... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, I know you know it by heart, because you were supposed to implement it as a representative of the Presidential Council. And who most consists in the capital of ZUS-owski, and the financial one, and the trust? Employees who for 40 years operate in a premium system. That's what Solidarity demanded and demanded, and I'm supporting it. And sometimes I'm even ahead of you. So that those people who work for a long time are tired of living, and this cannot be avoided after 40 years, pay contributions and have confidence in the Social Security Office, make up for it. Where is this reflected in this bill here? This is a season trip! Another solution... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Could I have a word with you, Minister... Because it could be the subject of your work as a man. I'm still treating you like this. It's from the generation of "Solidarity." The current valorisation contributes to the fact that, as the system and the retirement age go through, pensions lose weight. The longer the pensioner retires, the more he retires as a result of certain mechanisms I'll tell you what it is. It's shrinking. She decreases relative to what this pensioner received shortly after retirement or earning. The error is in the valorization system. As you know, we have a price-paid valorization, with a wage rate of only 25%. So the further away I get from my salary, from my job, from the job I left, the less this pension has to do with my job pay. It becomes a more social service than the result of the fact that I protected myself in the form of contributions which I paid to the Social Security Office. So, the conclusion... Well, I couldn't talk the Minister into it. The conclusion, Minister, is that if you are thinking about systemic solutions, you need to change the system for the value of pensions. This system, which is currently in place, assumes a large share of the price component, inflation and, after all, inflation may not be at all. And then someone pops up with an idea to manually run some raises. One says seventy, the other says thirty... This system was created during a period of systemic breakthrough, when the ZUS cash register was empty and even indebted, and there had to be a mechanism to stop the increase in pensions. Today, even during the time of a good change, we are dealing with a growing economy. The Most Extreme Conclusion I'm not inclined to do anything about it. It's about introducing wage valorization. And then we would have gotten what Senator Augustine was talking about, which is this restoration indicator. The recovery rate would be as recommended by the Union. It is used in many countries. The pension rate would be 60%. The point is that retirement isn't a drastic moment. Not only mentally, but also materially. And that's what I recommend you do, Minister, instead of those jarosław snitches. Such a systemic solution, in which we will move away from this valorisation, would not interfere with social interference in favour of all those who, for various reasons, could not earn these years, these high salaries. But let's keep the rule that you've violated many times here. The point is that these honest workers, for many years paying their contributions, are being taken to give to others. And that's Jarek's rule. That's Jarek's rule, not even Janosik. Now there's another issue that I'm going back to. Thank you, Minister, for your goodwill. Well, for now, there's a will to make amends for the women of 1953, but it's just a will. I fear that as time passes, these various generositys will run out of money for this, just as it has happened to the carers of the disabled. But for now, I accept your declaration, which I'll keep asking. Besides, we are now facing this will, we already have a specific minority request. All you have to do is raise your hand, Minister, and your will becomes a fact. And I think that's what these people are about. It's about making amends. By the way, it is true that this injury was caused by the adoption of a law by Parliament, of course at the initiative of the government, in 2012. We know that the PO-PSL coalition was in charge at the time. Well, let's not hide it. But in 2016, when it was time for a good change, when it could be changed, the citizens' initiative was rejected by the PiS. So there's a tie in these relationships, and since there's a tie, let's raise our hands together for this minority proposal. Senator Augustine raised such a fundamental question: are decent wages, wages and pensions possible with us? I say they're not only possible, but they should be. We've been building our country in terms of freedom for 30 years now. About 30 years ago, the country you summoned. It is not an expression of my admiration for this country that 7 million pensioners from East Germany, pensioners with zero cash, have accepted as an insurance pot. The brand GDR-owska had no value, and these benefits were, as with us, merely a record of benefits. At the same time almost 2 million people from other countries came from all over the country who, like our reatrients from Kazakhstan, were stripped of any benefits or paid with rubles... And today or yesterday, because it was probably two years ago, the money of the German insurance system, the state, so to speak, had a surplus. And as a result of this surplus, the retirement age was reduced by 2 years, temporarily. Over 2 years... Please compare our efforts. That's because there's another one like yours... the ZUS is a sacred thing. The German ZUS is a sacred thing. State interference is limited there. When you say he's 20% Deficiencies, that's true, but that's because he took so many pensioners on his pot. Even some pensioners in Poland benefit from these benefits. That is why I urge you, Minister, to make a good change in the insurance system. It's a good shift. Retired people are waiting for this. Today, I'm happy to raise my hand behind it. They're waiting for this burner phone, it's an earpiece, but tomorrow they're gonna ask themselves again whether they're gonna have enough by next year or next year. Their age extends, their needs grow, and the valorization system takes away, mows them with the necessary benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank the government very much that it has taken up such a great challenge and in such a short time it wants to carry out an undertaking which speaks of the 'emeritura' and it can be referred to differently, Senator Rulewski quoted it. But let's be honest here. I listened to the debate in the Seym, there was such harsh criticism... Finally, there were probably only two votes against in the vote, and 20 Members abstained, the rest of the Parliament voted in favour. I hear very strong voices of criticism here too, but I think And I believe that. That you will also vote in favour of this solution, because it is needed because citizens expect it. It's possible to discuss... From the point of view of the Polish village, I will say this: there are no high pensions there. Find me high pensions there. Farmers have probably the lowest pensions, you could say, they're just old-fashioned pensions. So the farmers are very pleased to receive something from this bill. So that I can say on behalf of Polish farmers, thank you because this is needed. But it's not like this government isn't doing anything. Please note that, after all, this valorization that Mr. Rulewski has mentioned is now a quota. That's 70 zlotys this year. Retirement is raised on a monthly basis. And so it's up to $2,000 with pennies, and then the indicator starts to grow. Therefore, the same principle as in previous years is no longer applied. And I think this system is already working. There is always a question of how much this growth is going to be, whether it should be 70 PLN or more in the coming years or not. But this is a step in the right direction, and I think that next year, when we're working on it, we're going to debate it, we're going to continue to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and Because I'm also in favour of these scissors... I think this year's scissor clamping element, or at least the break-down brake, because maybe not scissors, but the break-down brake has already been introduced. And I hope that such a system will continue to be introduced in the coming years, so that this valorization will actually be visible. For let us not hide: whoever has 5,000 will have 150 zlotys, and whoever has 1,100 zlotys will have only 70 zlotys. Well, there's still the difference. There's scissors opening. That is why I encourage the government to think further, especially since the colleagues from the Platform clearly raise that the 13th salary, as they call it, does not belong to those who have made a lot of money. Such conclusions are made. Well, I don't know, maybe next year it'll be a proposal, and that solution will change. If that's what the Platform wants, maybe it will. I don't know. Perhaps it will be that the witness for all will be abolished, only for the poor. But that will be the decision of the future parliament. For now, let's agree to what's here now. I think you'll mostly vote in favour. This must be announced, because, as the Minister has announced, if we approve it today and the President sign it, it will start on May 1st. In turn, each will gradually receive according to what has been granted, one fifth, the other seventh, the third fifteen, the fourth twenty, each together with this witness which has been granted and which he will receive, will also receive these 888 PLN. I would therefore like to thank the government once again for the smooth preparation of this solution and the possibility to transfer these funds. These people are really waiting for this. And the correction of thinking, the change in ideas... I think it's worth thinking about. And I think the Platform, if it's so demanding that those who have a lot don't pay... Maybe he'll take that position in the next parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u98	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to finance, I have to say a few words as a member of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance for 7 years, or already 8, you can say. I'm gonna change the order and start with what you ended up with, Senator Chróścikowski. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, if this is a great achievement of the government, I say that you measure high: take the money and divide it. This is genuinely very hard work. Everyone's worked so hard. In fact, they're just gonna work their asses off, the ZUS employees are gonna work their ass off, they're gonna work their ass off. And the bill's draft is... you can see how he is. That's one thing. Secondly, Senator Chróścikowski said that the government gives or does not give, referring to the statements of Senator Rulewski. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the PiS Senators, really remember what Margaret Thatcher once said: the government doesn't have any money of its own, it's money. all of us who the government administers on behalf of us. Remember that. And now about the challenges you're talking about here, I'd like to say yes. When we adopted the budget, I quoted the opinions of three independent institutions that deal with finances. In the opinions of these institutes there were among others. Something like that. Shortly enough, the government is giving out money for social programs fantastically, but they are not thought out, there are no criteria, no goals. Because what's the purpose of today's bill? The goal is to give away the money. Of course, different words can be chosen here, but I would like to say that when the Court of Justice of the European Union issues a resolution, pronounce a judgment or make a suggestion concerning the Supreme Court or the National Court of Justice, it will be an election campaign, but when you make payments just before 26 May, then no, no, it will not be a campaign. After all, we recently adopted a budget, and I asked the Minister about it. Didn't you see the trend? There was a tendency. Mr. President woke up, said: "We are giving because we are not doing enough research on support." It's something to support. That's the truth. You don't build any retirement support system, you build a feudal system. Why did a peasant praising his master? Because he gave him a bowl of better rice for Christmas... Here I recall the words of the Prime Minister, who said what needs to be done. Well, he's a pretty good guy, isn't he? And if you talk like that... It was obvious, you can hear and feel when you say, "What, what, you don't give pensioners?" I want to declare Senator Chróścikowski asked us how we would vote for this bill for two reasons. Firstly, for this reason, which the previous speakers were talking about in this area, and they said unambiguously that in Poland the level of benefits to pensioners in relation to earnings is the lowest in the European Union, as Senator Augustine said here, 40, 63 on average in OECD countries, and ninety pairs are in the countries where it is best. And the second more important thing: you can't think of anything better. You're acting like a family that's getting a little better, so father and mother are taking the kids, taking the money and going to the grocery store, you have to spend the money, because they've come out, instead of building a system that's going to be a permanent system. When we were talking about additional benefits, we had to build a system of permanent 13 salaries for pensioners, taking into account the amount of the benefit, what Senator Rulewski said, the length of working time and other parameters. This should be included in the bill. What are you doing? Well, there's money, Mr. Minister said it got better, after 2 months you can see that there will be 11 billion more. What do you have to do? Deal. The money will be distributed just before May 26th. And it's not a system. Because when you have to build something... [[No, it's a system.]] And I'll remind you that you were going to build apartments plus zero effects of the program, supposed to be drones, electric cars, nuclear power plants, etc. [[Apartments.]] I told you, the apartments plus. Did anything come of it? Less than zero, as one of the bands sings in a fantastic song that I dedicate to you. You're great at giving out, and you're great at giving out things that you don't achieve. Because the goal is that everyone gets 880 zł per hand? Does that reduce social dissection? [[No.]] Does that make the poorer richer? [[No.]] And you can keep saying that. I'm not a social policy specialist, but I'll tell you what the previous speakers said. Well, look, we're dealing... sorry, you're dealing, and I'm signing it, but just because there's nothing else you can think of. That is why I am talking about the fact that when the voters thank you in October, we in the next term will build a system that will systematically improve what is relevant to this indicator. That is why I would like to appeal because we have no discipline for my colleagues: let us vote for this. Let's do this for a simple reason: if we don't vote in favour, then the PiS will spend this money on far worse goals, some veterinary or God knows what other ones are maybe less needed today. The situation of Polish pensioners in many cases is really tragic. The system will not build, the money will waste, so it is better that pensioners receive this money, spend it on consumption, which is one of the elements driving the gross domestic product. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u100	Senator Bobko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, one thought I'd like to share. Well, in the short term, of course, we can vote in favour of this law, because the situation of pensioners is what it was about. So most of our pensioners are likely to benefit from this money and are able to make use of it. However, this law also makes us think and should make us think about a certain system in which we operate. On the one hand, we're talking about pensions, but on the other hand, if we could just say it to ourselves honestly and define it... If you understand retirement as it used to be, that it's the money that results, as Senator Rulewski said... [[It's from a biography.]] ...from the biography and are related to how many contributions have been collected, it turns out that the word "pension" in this sense I was talking about it in the Senate once. It is more and more an outdated word or a word from some archive, from an antique shop. Today, retirement is a social service and this law is the best example of this. Our government is good, sensitive, and at the moment it adds to the pensioners. But this bill unfortunately also has such a dimension that it shows that if the government can add, it can also subtract. So we are creating another precedent, however, as if deepening this trend or showing that pension depends on Parliament's will, on government proposals and is not something stable. And this is not a good situation. This is a situation which, unfortunately, can in the long term not serve the interests of citizens, and must be aware of it. We have confidence in this government. At least I've got one. And this law is an example of the fact that we want to improve the situation for pensioners at least in the short term, but it can be a precedent that another government can use to take action in a different direction. So from this side and from here I would like to end with an appeal that the government, our government, in a sense, should hold back when it comes to these kind of voluntaristic decisions that can then serve other governments, worse, to make decisions that are less favourable to citizens. Because I also agree with what has been said here, that the long-term source of the welfare of citizens, society is work, saving and designing its income, and not the sometimes ad hoc benefits granted by the rulers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u102	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that Senators Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Maciej Łuczak and Władysław Komarnicki submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1121, and the report of the Commission In print No 1121 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a report to the committee... There's no senator. [[Voice from the room: He forgot...]] Wait a minute, why don't we call him... Two minutes off, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voices from the O.R.: Oh, you're here, Senator.]] You're a senator. Come on in, Mr. Senator. We're waiting for your report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Let's resume the session.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances at its meeting... [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet.]] ...on 10 April, it examined the Law on the revision of the Financial Market Surveillance Act and certain other laws in print No 1121 adopted by the Sejm on 15 March 2019 and prepared a report in print No 1121 A. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. We have Minister Leszek Skiba with us today, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Law on Criminal Code. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1123, and the Commission's reports In prints No 1123 A and 1123 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee... [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] There isn't. We're calling the senator. And are you Senator Rafał Ambrozik? We will now ask that the report be presented to the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and perhaps Senator Grzegorz Pekkis will join us in a moment. I'd like you to call the senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report on the work of the Legislative Commission on the Law amending the Road Traffic Law and the Criminal Code. The act is intended to prevent activities consisting of unauthorised interference in the indication of the vehicle's mileage counter. According to the justification of the project, the reversal of the road signs for misleading the buyer as to the technical condition of the vehicle is practiced on such a large scale that it requires legislative intervention. In the current legal state, the behaviour of falsifying road signs is considered to be an offence under Article. 286 §1 k.k., a crime of fraud, which is punishable by imprisonment from 6 months to 8 years. Fraud shall be allowed if, in order to obtain a property benefit, another person is led to an adverse regulation by his or her own or another person's property by misleading it or making use of an error or inability to properly comprehend the action taken. Such legal qualification of the behaviour of changing the indication of the traffic meter causes significant difficulties in establishing the perpetrator of the act in a situation where the car does not originate from the first owner. The amendment is therefore intended to prevent both fraudulent practices involving the sale of low-speed motor vehicles and the provision of services consisting in undermining the indications of this device. The Penal Code is also being revised. Art. is inserted. 306 and criminalisation shall include the modification of the guidance of the mechanical vehicle, the interference with the correct measurement of the mechanical vehicle, and the order of another person to change the indication of the road-meter or to interfere with the correctness of its measurement. The Senators present at the meeting of the Legislative Commission voted unanimously in favour of this law. The Sejm voted that 417 Members were in favour, 3 Members were against and 2 abstained. On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I request the adoption of a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. And now the rapporteur of the Infrastructure Committee, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u107	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Infrastructure Commission yesterday dealt with this law. During the committee's meeting, doubts were generally raised. only cases of possible inconvenience to owners of antique vehicles. Historical vehicles, in line with the understanding of the road code, were called historic vehicles at the committee meeting, as understood by the vehicle insurance law. This is crucial, because if the historical vehicles are not included in the Road Traffic Act, but antique vehicles which are included in the... This law is not fully sealed. In other words, this law allows a situation in which a vehicle which is de facto not an antique vehicle without an adequate number of years can be added to the so-called. collection and as such a vehicle recognized. But that wasn't the focus of the investigation. The object of the investigation was that in older vehicles, in which the meter is mechanical, the indication is twisted over time. When the maximum value of a given tracker is reached, it turns the indication from 100,000, close to 100,000, to zero, a series of zeros. There was therefore doubt as to whether this would be the reason for punishing people with such cars. The association, which represented this point of view, had one more doubt about the application of this law to the owners of antique vehicles, which would suddenly be broken down by such a meter. And then they, having an unusual, antique vehicle, would have to suddenly, in 14 days, in order to be in accordance with the law, acquire a tracker that is compatible with the type and model. And that raised their doubts. However, the amendment was not tabled, and this was not recognised either by the representative of the Minister of Justice, Minister Wójcik, present senators, present at the committee meeting. Summa summarum is one of the most important laws for the automotive market in this term of office of the Sejm and the Senate, because this law restores a certain state of faith in the institution of the state. It is about the faith of people who, buying a used, imported car in the territory of the Republic of Poland, often also purchased, without knowing it, a car with a low mileage. In the opinion of the Polish recipient, the Polish buyer, the Pole's understatement of the course, i.e. incomplete course in relation to the facts, confirms the value of the car. That's why it's so important that we're punishing not only that someone is lowering the course of the vehicle in order to achieve the benefits... It's already now, but it's very, very hard to prove, because sometimes It's such a paradox. The reduction in the value of the vehicle compared to the determined value shall not be affected by road congestion. This law clearly states that such treatments carried out on motor vehicles are simply illegal and are punishable. And that puts us among the countries, the countries of the European Union, who have managed to deal with it. Another very important issue was raised at the committee meeting. There would be no problem if, in a united Europe at the end, we agreed that national bases We have the CEPiK 2 base, the Central Vehicle and Driver Records. were connected. Then Polish citizen, buying a used car abroad, e.g. in Germany, he would know the mileage of this car from the last review in Germany. That would make it a lot easier... [[It's off.]] [[Someone turned off the senator.]] [[Turn on the senator, because he's talking interestingly.]] Well, yeah, it's... it's time, isn't it? [[But it's okay.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me... This would significantly facilitate the exchange of information, and in particular would facilitate the identification of the actual course of the vehicle brought to Poland. This applies to less than one million vehicles a year, which is a very, very serious matter. And we finally have this bill, and I would like to thank you from this place, because the procedures to introduce it in this shape lasted a total of three years. That's what I'm gonna say. There's a lot of people going after it. Even before the official notification of this project 'Cause it was a project. I have had the opportunity to participate in many conferences. In fact, there's unanimity. The exception is the users of stricte antique vehicles The fact that this law will introduce a certain order and, above all, introduce a certain state of trust in the Polish state. Thank you very much. Oh, I would just like to stress that six senators of all present at the committee were in favour and one senator abstained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u108	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marcin Warchoł is coming to us. Will any of you have a question for the Minister? Because if we don't, we're gonna keep going... [[Voice from the room: We don't have one.]] No questions. Good. Thank you very much. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. Senator Piotr Florek signed up for the discussion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is right, of course, and we will support it. However, it is quite over-regulated. The reason for this is that the phenomenon of unauthorised interference in the indication of the vehicle's mileage counter, i.e. the speedometer, has taken on an unacceptable social scale in recent years. And we can all agree on that. This largely involves motor vehicles and is aimed at achieving an unauthorised advantage by the seller of the vehicle as a result of misleading the buyer of the technical condition of the vehicle. Ladies and gentlemen, we can rightly conclude that turning the counters... Buying a car like this, we're exposed to the fact that... we're buying a car with a certain state of the meter, and the actual state is quite different, and that's why we're losing it. It's right and right to do something about it. But I'm talking about overregulation. Ladies and gentlemen, what is it? In short, it is a matter of not applying the new rules to all vehicles. When we buy a car that has a set-up counter, like the state of the meter doesn't correspond to the truth... This obviously matters when it comes to the value of the car, but only at a certain time. After 20, 30 years, we're really not looking at how much car he's run over, but at what condition this car is. Another issue is historic vehicles and historical vehicles. The senator mentioned this here because we discussed it extensively at the committee meeting. We even had to move to another room to continue the discussion. The antique vehicle is connected not only with the yellow plates you see, but also with a number of special regulations that concern it. These cars are not subject to e.g. technical tests, unless used for commercial purposes. Then they're subject. There are appropriate definitions. There's a definition of an antique vehicle. According to the law, the law on road traffic is a vehicle which, under separate regulations, has been entered in the register of monuments or is located in the voivodeship register of monuments, as well as a vehicle entered in the inventory of museums, in accordance with separate regulations. We also have a definition of a historical vehicle. It is specified in the Act on compulsory insurance of OC. According to this law, a vehicle must fulfil one of the specified conditions in order to be regarded as historical. It is also stated that a historic vehicle within the meaning of the Law on road traffic is a historical vehicle. And now the question is whether a bill that we can briefly call a counter bill... Does it make sense that all the procedures that have been introduced by this law... There is talk of services that can control, they can provide information about kilometers travelled to the CEPiK. We know that during the technical review everything is saved. If you're going for a review, the state of the counter is entered. If we replace the counter, if it is due to any technical reasons, we can write a statement, we can report it. There's a whole procedure for this type of writing. And now the question arises about antique, museum vehicles. The issue of these counters, the replacement of them, was widely discussed at the committee meeting. And then there's the problem, the question is, is it worth it. At the committee meeting, I said that I would examine the matter, I would think about it, and if I consider it appropriate, I will table an amendment in plenary today. Of course, my amendment would generally aim to exclude all vehicles over 30 years old from this, so that the procedures that are introduced by law... The idea would be not to do so, because in the case of older vehicles it does not matter. That's what I told you. In addition, there are amendments to the Penal Code Act. The bill under review is short. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 changes to the Penal Code are recorded. And there it is: who changes the indication of a motor vehicle or interferes with the correctness of its measurement, is punishable by imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years. Please note the punishment. Three months to five years. Those who commission such action shall also be subject to this penalty. In the case of cars over 30... Why am I talking about 30 years? Well, I don't want to quote right now... In accordance with the Annex on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff in the Union... This term is used there for 30 years. There's talk of at least 30 years of age. Well, that's why it's showing up. Ladies and gentlemen, is there any point in writing all this down over 30 years, running this whole thing? What does it matter? The purpose of the bill is actually clear. The point is, you can't cheat. And for that there are also appropriate punishments. I tried to make such an amendment, but as it turns out, to shut all of this down, we would need to change the rules in a few laws. Of course, because of the short time it was very difficult, and I failed. Nevertheless, I have an amendment in such a slightly shortened version. It shall apply to Article. Point 5, which relates to Article 1. 81a and 81b. What do I mean by these amendments? Art. 81a provides that the replacement of the track gauge is permitted when the track gauge does not measure the course of the vehicle in a situation of... etc., etc., I'm not gonna read it all. I would like to add only one reservation here: the replacement of the track gauge is permitted in a vehicle of more than 30 years old and in other vehicles only if... And then the bill would regulate the same thing. This is particularly the historical vehicles we have been talking about, the historic ones that are over 30 years old. Well, these are vehicles that, in principle, are at least 25 years old or older, even 30 years old. Therefore, this strict provision would not have to be introduced, that would have been acceptable. And then we'd know what the rules were. It's working. You wouldn't have to write that statement, you wouldn't have to make it for these vehicles. This also applies to Article. 81b. Quote: Owner or holder of a vehicle, a free-riding vehicle forming part of a travel queue or a moped And now all I'm saying is that he's less than 30 years old, also unregistered, who's made the changes... etc., etc. The point is that in these cases you really don't need You should've done that. In the case of these vehicles, all this information has to be transmitted, a statement has to be made, and the point is not to do it. It would be best if all vehicles over 30 years of age were eliminated from this bill, because it really does not make any sense. There's only one target. The point is, there's no cheating to punish these scams, and in the case of these older cars, antique cars, it doesn't make any sense. But since this is difficult, in the case of exchange, it measures some of these provisions to remain, and in this part, to not complicate it, especially as regards antique cars, I make this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u110	Thank you, Senator. Signed? Okay, thank you. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u111	I already said in my report that this is a very important act. It will greatly improve the standard of functioning of our automotive industry. I am convinced of this even because people will be aware of what they buy and what they drive. Another thing is that in the Pole's consciousness the mileage which determines whether the car is fit or unfit to move it along the way is about 200,000 km. It's a psychological barrier. Authentically, there are studies showing that Poles do not want to buy cars with a registered run of more than 200,000 km. As far as these vehicles are concerned, any exemptions in this particular case, on the basis of experience from the automotive market, I mean, for example. a good knowledge of excise duties charged on motor vehicles, I find that the creativity of Poles in this respect is great. Therefore, I would encourage you not to break down this bill for anyone, even for the owners of antique vehicles. [[The senator presents a photo on the tablet]] I'll show you a picture like this. Here, in this picture. I'll explain, because not everyone sees it. It's a Porsche Cayenne. This Porsche isn't 30 years old. It's not possible that it's this old, and yet this car is on yellow plates, it's on antique plates. Another thing is, cars like this shouldn't be moving at more than 40 km/h. This car should actually be limited to one gear. Cars like this can't move on highways. Ladies and gentlemen, the creativity of Poles, despite the statutory record defining what a historic vehicle is It's historic, not historical, because there's no history in the Road Traffic Act. It is so great that I would warn against breaching, I would encourage you not to do so in this case. But let's get back to this theory, which was repeated at the committee meeting and with which I discussed at the committee meeting, that the mileage in the antique cars does not constitute their value. This is true, but very limited, only to the Polish market and only to the products of our native production. Why? On the markets of those countries that did not actually survive the war, e.g. on the British market, or on the German market, the market of a country that survived the war, but in a slightly different dimension, the price of antique vehicles is also shaped by mileage. I mean. are historical vehicles very well anchored in the era, they are e.g. factory vehicles, with numbers close to one, i.e. the first, the second, the third vehicle from production, which by nature was allocated to the production of the models concerned. And it's very important in these vehicles. .. and shapes the price. Their course. Like everyone who's watching... If anyone wants to go through one of these browsers, British or German, they will see that the same vehicles with a documented, authentic low mileage reach ridiculously high values. To put it simply: it is antique vehicles with very low mileage that reach the value of millions or euros or dollars, depending on the market. And that's where the mileage is important. But I agree that in Poland there is not yet such a market at this level. Nevertheless, Poles are getting richer and we will come to this. Therefore, looking forward, today let us no longer allow the various creative Poles to dig into it and give them the opportunity to circumvent the provisions of this law. The second very important thing I mentioned, and now I'm going to expand it a little bit, is the issue of a certain unification of the provisions on the possibility of seeing the state of the vehicle in the road map. in the countries of a united Europe. And there are some bases that focus cars like Canada or the United States. ♪ If we pay ♪ 'Cause these are private bases. We can get the full story of the car, including its course. In this case, It's important. For example, there's a CARFAX base. And the Polish government, this government, has already dealt with this CARFAX very, very far, so far that it was possible to view the content of these databases free of charge. Only our problem is that we import most of the cars from Germany and the Germans refused to open their data to the public need of other countries. And that's why it made a little bit of sense. If we had such an exchange of information... Why is it so important? Because we already have so-called. CEPiK 2.0 , this IT base, where we have a lot of information, and this is a great tool to not just control, but to confirm the facts, which means to prevent various frauds, various frauds. And it's starting to work. And on the one hand, this government simplifies the lives of Poles, e.g. eliminating the need to carry registrations in the near future... I think it can be said that there is the elimination of some late nuisances, e.g. this unfortunate sticker on the windshield informing about the vehicle's registration number, or e.g. the vehicle card. In fact, asked on the street Pole does not know what this vehicle card is for, and when we change the place of residence, it is usually lost and there is a huge problem as we want to dispose of the vehicle. These are the hardships which this government has taken up and with which, what much to say here, it is courageously acting, solving the elementary problems of Poles. Once again, I ask that the mentioned breach in the recipe not to leave creative Poles a chance to change their facts. However, in many aspects of the car life of Poles... This is contrary to appearances very important, because it affects almost every Polish family today. It's hard to find a family that doesn't have a car. Statistics show that we are in second place in Europe in this respect. Another thing is that these statistics are based on databases, which, to put it mildly, are very unfresh. But maybe I'm not gonna do it right now. We'll talk about it when we talk about the CPiK, about the so-called. Dead souls. Summa summarum affects at least 12 million of our population in general. This is a very, very large number of users, people who will thus feel that they have stopped being, although in this respect, cheated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Piotr Florek. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, as legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1143, and the report of the Commission In print No 1143 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present to you a law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. The Health Committee leaned over that bill yesterday. A few words about what this bill is at all. It can be said that the basic objective of the Act is to counteract the perceived and more vulnerable, especially for patients, irregularities in supplying the retail pharmaceutical market, and as a result of shortages or simply disappearing some drugs from pharmacies. This is the result of an illegal but not effectively pursued and eliminated phenomenon, which is called the reverse distribution chain. In fact, it consists in obtaining medicines from the Polish market, especially from the retail market, in order to resell them abroad at a price often many times higher than the domestic price, especially in the case of medicines refunded. This is, you can say, the effect of price negotiations on prices in Poland being extremely effective. Medications in Poland are very cheap, and this difference is so tempting that many entities have made such an action a source of small profits. The result, as I said, is the disappearance of medicines from the market available to patients and, as a result, huge problems with obtaining certain medicines. Although this phenomenon has already been described as illegal, but a few years ago, under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, this activity was, you can say, a relatively small administrative penalty was depreciated. The procedures, including administrative procedures, did not do much to eliminate this phenomenon, even the opposite. It appears to be increasing as the list of drugs that are not available due to this reverse distribution chain is long. In short, it can be said that the law merely clarifies what is illegal, but it must be added that it primarily introduces a new context to this practice, i.e. penalizes the effects that make it possible to rotate... are based on the reverse chain of distribution of medicinal products. It can be said that these penalties are primarily designed to introduce a certain order, to create fear of such activities and, if not, to eliminate them, at least significantly reduce them. With regard to changes that are genuinely not allowed, it is prohibited for pharmaceutical wholesalers to supply medicinal products from retail traders, as such a phenomenon has been observed, among others. Pharmacy was selling drugs back to the warehouse. The purchase and disposal of medicinal products by a medical operator shall also be explicitly prohibited. It seems that right now it's like there's a major or the biggest hole in the trade in lacquers. Probably such medicinal products, which are basically, can be said to be, rather, pillars, do not carry on a therapeutic activity, and in any case not in relation to such medicines, acquire these medicines and then take them abroad in various ways. Provisions are also introduced to improve the supervision and effectiveness of inspections of distributors of medicinal products. More cooperation is assumed not only between the authorities of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection, but also between the police, Border Guard and other entities which will be involved in the effective containment of this phenomenon due to the Penalisation of this phenomenon. In fact, it can be said that it is the main content of this law, but during the work of the Sejm significant changes were made to it and they were adopted by the Sejm, by a significant majority, almost unanimously. These were amendments to the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Care and some other laws, which was adopted on 20 July last year. As a result, through this amendment, which was adopted in the Sejm, we withdraw from mail order sales and supply of medicines to people with disabilities. It was simply after an examination of these provisions that they could be the cause of various irregularities, e.g. those covered by the Act, but also the various others, and at least for the time being, these 2 mechanisms which were to be introduced from 1 July of this year are being abandoned. That's basically all about the essence of the bill. During the committee meeting another solution was discussed, which was also discussed in the Sejm, namely the possibility for patients, pharmacies customers to introduce a mechanism for using the Large Family Charter. There were votes in favour, and there were votes in favour, including mine. It shows that pharmacy is, however, primarily a health care facility, not a shop, and in fact we do not want more medicinal products to be sold in pharmacies, for example. supplements, which today are subject to a large turnover. For this reason, it seems that this project should be approached very carefully, as it would not apply to refunded medicines, which are prescribed on medical prescription or as a nurse's prescription. And there is also a serious aspect in the form of a general ban on competition between pharmacies. In this area, the Large Family Charter could carry a certain risk of some kind of loyalty solutions introduced by the pharmacy, so this issue should be considered very well. At the same time, the Minister of Health asked... Well, there was also the opinion of the legislators that it seems that this solution goes beyond the scope of the law, i.e. in principle, at the stage of the Senate it should not be introduced. And when it comes to thinking about this at all, as well as about selling mail order drugs, we just need to focus on it one more time, one more time to lean on it. This requires further analysis and discussion. Following the discussion, the committee adopted a law with 2 more specific amendments. On behalf of the committee, I recommend that the High Senate adopt a bill of amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We also have representatives of the Ministry of Health with Minister Maciej Miłkowski in charge today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Tomasz Grodzki, please take the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a law, which is certainly due to good intentions, but whether the scope of effective action of the law will be the way the legislators assume it will prove to be in practice, because, as Senator Radziwiłł said, the temptation to earn easy money is always tempting for criminals. I am addressing you on a particular issue, maybe a retail one in this law, but relevant to a large group of citizens. It's a big bill, it's got a lot of points. In one of these points, it says that advertising of pharmacies and pharmacies and their activities is prohibited under certain conditions. This was not the subject of our deliberations, because the changes made by the Sejm concern other points, but the records that are supposed to protect us from the reverse distribution chain, as if ricocheted into groups that sometimes have trouble buying even cheap drugs. I'm talking about big families and those seniors who are unlucky and under 75 years old. Since the legislators of the High Chamber are of the opinion that this is not the subject of the current revision of the Pharmaceutical Law Act, I will not make any amendments. But based on the fact that we're talking pharmaceutical law, I'm going to appeal to the Ministry. It's not about justice, it's about health, because this part of the bill doesn't exactly apply to justice. In order to regulate this situation as soon as possible, so that the holders of the Large Family Card and seniors can safely benefit from discounts in pharmacies. As the chief pharmaceutical inspector reports say, even 25% of buyers don't buy all the drugs because they just don't have the money. I therefore call on the Minister, in accordance with the declaration made at the committee meeting as soon as possible, to settle this problem in this term of office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to speak from the spot. That'll be a corrigendum. [[Please.]] It's certainly not that 25% people come out of pharmacies because they can't buy drugs. The latest data, such solid data that we had, said that in 2014 and 2015 it was 17%. Following the introduction of the 75+ programme, i.e. free medicines for seniors, this number decreased significantly. To the values that are, you can say, at the limit of statistical error. It is certainly not true that 1/4 of the patients come out of pharmacies with a receipt. Thanks to this program... I would like to remind you that almost 2.5 million people are currently using it, about 50 million packs of medicines are spent each year, which are covered by this programme. Right now it's almost 2.5,000 different preparations. It seems that this phenomenon has already been mastered to a considerable extent. As for the big families and the Big Family Charter, I've already allowed myself to make a few arguments so I won't go back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u118	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u119	The meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Infrastructure Committee to examine the requests submitted at the Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Law on Criminal Procedure will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-senat-76-1.u120	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Isn't this the re-entry session at 9 p.m. today?]] No. [[Voice from the room: Why? Are we out of order?]] Because we already did what we were supposed to do today. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 17 minutes 46]]
