ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Marcin Duszek and Rafał Weber to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek. I ask Members of the Secretaries to take their seats at the Presidency table and Mr Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth - 15 minutes after the end of the votes, - Justice and Human Rights - 15 minutes after the end of the votes, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - immediately after the end of the votes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u3	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 33. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Labour Code Act (Print No. 2830). I ask Mr Witold Zembaczyński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u4	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the applicants, the Modern Posel Club, I have the honour to present a justification for the draft law commonly called: clear earnings to oblige employers to publish the amount of remuneration in employment notices. In the reality of the Polish labour market, a potential employee is offered a wage offer only at the interview or during the interview they often get the question: How much would you like to earn? From the one person I consulted on this project, I heard that it was even asked directly: How much less could you be able to work? This is unbelievable, but this is how often the reality of recruitment calls is. This is in addition to the question of women about the plan to start a family, the second of the contemporary sins of employers practiced both during the interviews and the continuation of employment, despite equality in employment and the right to fair pay. In Poland, unlike many European countries, neither customs nor legal means of disseminating information about the level of remuneration have been adopted. In our culture the amount of earnings is considered in taboo category. This amendment is the first step that will start with a new approach to remuneration and in general recruitment processes. What's with the forks? Currently, wage forks are not mandatory, but the employer can state and some already state the gross amount from which the employee could start work. Most employers are worried about placing pay forks in the so-called. job advertisements for one very simple reason: they fear for the company's image. Employers' representatives, presenting wage forks at an early stage of recruitment, will be able to provide employees with more efficient recruitment and better absorb their attention around specific notices. The project will also allow for sowing so-called. Janusz salary already at the preliminary stage of the decision to take up work by specific persons concerned. In this way, a kind of wage base will also be created on the site and on the site. This can increase labour mobility and employers will be obliged to set more competitive wage rates not only in the context of a legally defined minimum wage but also averaged earnings in a given industry. This will enable entrepreneurs to compete in a more efficient way for the economy, because, of course, competition based on low labour costs, in short, is the least efficient. Those who pay less will lose on the employee market. Change for young workers. A strong advantage of this solution is the possibility for young workers starting their careers or changing industries to make informed decisions. It was from them that we gathered the most positive opinions on the project during the consultation. This will also enable young people to make informed decisions on the direction of their education, because they will be able to decide more consciously on the direction in which they are going to be educated, because for them it is information about a later position in the labour market. In this way, too, a phenomenon that is disproportionate to work placement and the ability to vary rates, which unfortunately often takes place, will be eliminated within one company. A young person who will work for pennies in order to gain experience will know what is at stake in the final game and whether it is worth spending his time and talent on this particular job. The awareness of the real rate will also involve taking up work for a lower salary than expected, while at the same time waiting for it to be increased in the future. Today's reality shows that the chances of promotion depend not only on ability, solid work, but also on many other factors, non-Objective criteria. Most often, an intern is no longer needed after an internship, then he would have to be paid more, and these are also worrying developments in the labour market. This project will also cut off the grey zone. Another advantage of the transparency of wages, which is also the phenomenon of a worker's real wage in relation to the value of work, is that the phenomenon of passing the rest of the salary simply under the table will be reduced. This is another positive effect of such a solution. The principle of dominance of the so-called will also be reduced. a pay delegation, i.e. the publication of the value of the basic salary, will also avoid the situation in which the proposed wage is mostly composed of the so-called. delegations representing different allowances to the basic salary, because in the context of market selection such notices with very low basic pay will not be attracted by the workers. Most importantly, Poles want these changes. Work Service studies show that 84% is surveyed for the disclosure of salaries in employment notices. Already in many groups with job advertisements such a custom applies, on many social networks and on sites. And this is just one of the reasons why employers go through these recruitment processes more easily, they get employees faster. According to the Hays Poland study, only 4% companies currently include information on the extent of the remuneration offered in all published recruitment notices, a further 14% companies provide such information incidentally, while as many as 87% of candidates believe that the announcements are currently lacking information about earnings. In 2017, netizens organized the action on the Internet.There is no taboo, write for how much pressure it would put on the offers to start the information about the proposed remuneration. Moreover, in recent days I have also met, in consultation with this project, with a number of opinions that the High House should consider e.g. requiring employers to answer only those CVs that do not contain a photo or to require them to reply to their CVs at all, because this often does not happen. What is becoming a standard in western Europe is not yet ours. Finally, we need to understand that Poles do not want to know how much their colleagues, colleagues at work earn, Poles want to know if they will get a decent salary, sufficiently high, for their hard work when they apply for a specific position. They want to be treated with dignity and respect in the recruitment process. What are the benefits for businesses, for companies? This is a very important component of our project. Presenting job vacancies in a given position can also bring many benefits to companies in the form of a real increase in interest in the recruitment position. The employer saves his time, very valuable time, money and encourages only those with the desired experience, competence and expectations to apply to the position. On the other hand, employers are involved in the process of recruiting their time, people, their capital and expect it to be as effective as possible. This project allows it. Equality in employment. As I mentioned earlier, there is still inequality in employment in the Polish labour market. Take, for example, the latest NBP scandal. Previously employed workers, despite years of internship, experience and proven usefulness, have a lower salary than newly employed workers. The project presented by me also aims to change the rules and collective agreements that will define remuneration policies and a clear system of promotion and wage increases. Of course, combating gender discrimination is also an important element. The issue of equal pay between men and women will also be an important aspect of the presentation of proposed open earnings in job advertisements. Women earn 18.5% on average less than men, which translates into more than 700 PLN gross less according to CUS data. We look a little better in terms of the European gender pay gap index, which for Poland is 7.2%. Unfortunately, in Poland it is common to propose lower rates on the same positions for women. This is not because they have less competence. Women are often better educated, much better prepared to perform specific professional functions and it is incomprehensible that women are paid less. However, these are the facts, and you just have to face them. The advantage of this project is also the possibility of eliminating unfair practices among employers. Pay transparency can therefore serve not only workers, especially those with a weaker position on the market, but also employers who want to tie employees to their company - sometimes this criterion is more important even for employers than the education they have received from a particular employee. Potential disclosure of wages would also remove from the market unfair employers who pay far less than competition in the same industry for the same work. Today, the employee is not able to compare - there is no information from a certain source - his salary and salary offered by competition. The employer can only give the level of remuneration of employees in a limited way, because here, of course, the principle of inviolability of workers' rights must be maintained, and such forks in announcements would not refer to specific, by name and by name, persons, but to positions, so it would be easier to inform the market about the level of remuneration in a given company. The Chief Labour Inspector has taken up the subject of the possibility for the employer to publish a single advertisement in many places and at different rates. I would like to say in the explanatory memorandum that the objections raised would relate to an issue that it would be difficult to apply in practice because, High Izbo, Mr Marshal, when such a situation occurs, it would be very easy to pick up and verify by the applicants that one company gives two announcements at different rates. I doubt that this way of getting employees is effective, so it's a completely theoretical concern that I don't share. The publication of adverts with multiple rates will introduce chaos in recruitment activities disproportionate to the potential benefits of the employer, additionally impose some spectrum of financial penalties, and it is not that entrepreneurs will risk their good name, their reputation on the market, to nod their employees during recruitment. There is therefore no cause for concern here. Over time, there will also be an average wage on a given job on a national scale. It is clear that the location of the company will have a significant impact on the level of remuneration, as is currently the case. It is also clear that the level of remuneration will continue to depend both on the candidate's experience and on his current qualifications. However, proposals are eliminated that are derogatory to the principle of fair remuneration, so a remuneration map will be created in a given sector and region. It may encourage workers to react very importantly, i.e. to increase their mobility in the labour market, such an impulse to economic emigration - often in the city next door, in the voivodeship next door, in the neighboring district you can earn much more in this position and people do not know about it, therefore they do not decide to take a job, about this labour migration within the country. Publication of the value of the proposed remuneration over time will also contribute to overall wage growth by eliminating those competing in the labour price, which is of course the least efficient for the economy. The increase in wages is also a greater revenue for the state budget, and hence for local governments. This also translates into the overall quality of life of Polish citizens. One of the problems reported by employers is the lack of identification of the employee with the company. This effect can be achieved in many ways, but from research carried out by the American Glassdoor portal, where employees share information about employers in several European countries, Canada and the United States, it appears that as much as 70% The respondents believe that greater disclosure of wages is important in terms of employee satisfaction, and a happy employee is a good and more efficient employee, also a worker more closely associated with the company. Other studies carried out in 2015 by the PayScale portal suggest that the more employees know about who makes money in their company, the more they feel connected with it and the less they are ready to change jobs. This means more employment stability for employers. Of course, there are many examples of the application of such a law: clear earnings, an information obligation on the level of remuneration in employment notices - for example in Anglo-Saxon countries. It is also worth mentioning here the example of Germany, where more than a year ago a wage disclosure law was adopted in companies with more than 200 people - each worker has the right to request information on the median salary of people in a similar position, in Denmark the employer has an obligation to make the wage net available in case of employing more than 36 employees, so there are a number of good examples in the European Union. What's next? Of course, it is not without significance that the amendment implies a change in the form of adding one article and adding one point to the existing article. 281 Labour Code. Art. 18 consists of three paragraphs, of which the general obligation to take account of the amount of the proposed basic gross remuneration in the case of publication of the notice of employment is expressed in § 1 and § 2 the employer is obliged to provide information that the remuneration is subject to negotiation. And this is very important because in the absence of this word very often people, especially women, do not negotiate wages at the recruitment stage, at the interview stage. That's the key word. Perhaps it is not so intuitive at the stage of the legal discussion on this project, but it is precisely the conclusion of this word that ensures that people are more likely to decide to negotiate remuneration. This is addressed mainly to women. We also obtained this information during the consultation. Of course, because of the opinions of the Supreme Court or the General Labour Inspector, we are inclined to continue working on this project in committees to improve it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A clear salary is a conscious decision where and for how much work you want. This is a highly anticipated social project, this is a new quality, quite low cost, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The general, gigantic change in the life of Poles living in a job relationship, looking for work and those who are still in the educational stage, which does not entail costs for employers, does not entail costs for the state, and is with a great profit for society. I ask for his support and thank the High House for its attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u5	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of my Parliamentary Club Law and Justice with regard to the parliamentary bill amending the Labour Code Act. Three opinions were submitted to this draft law: Supreme Court, Chief Labour Inspector and National Commission of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity). All these opinions can be described as one, namely that they are positive about the purpose of the bill, but they contain a number of comments, starting with the comments of the Office for Studies and Analysis of the Supreme Court, which states that reading the various provisions of the draft amending act in conjunction with its justification leads to the conclusion that the normative content to be covered by the legislative work does not correspond to the actual intentions of the authors of the project. The Supreme Court also made a number of other observations, inter alia, pointing out that by stating that the proposed minimum amount of the basic salary may not be less than the minimum salary for work, as if it duplicates what is in the Minimum Compensation Act, where the minimum remuneration is also fixed annually. On the other hand, reading into this provision, in this proposal, I have the impression that we would like to make some changes, because there is no basic remuneration in the minimum wage bill. The minimum wage is to be what the employee receives. If the remuneration consists of several elements, the basic salary does not have to be as much as the minimum remuneration. And there's more attention. Among other things, we want to put this into practice - an employer who has a job relationship with a salary less than that provided for in the published information on the employment opportunities of a worker at a given job, or who does not include such information, is to be punished. Here is a number of comments, and it is not only the Supreme Court, that it should be made more concrete, that it should clearly be the mark of this offence, which would be a violation of this provision. As far as this bill is concerned, I would also like to point out that we do not have a government position yet. I will personally say that I am opposed to frequent, short amendments to codes, above all codes. On the other hand, with regard to the Labour Code, we have such a situation that work has been carried out, advanced work on the creation of a new Labour Code. Unfortunately, these works will not find the finals in our term of office of the Sejm, work has been undertaken on subsequent amendments to the provisions of the Labour Code. Therefore, on behalf of my Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this draft be referred to the committee for further analysis. Then, after obtaining the position of the government, we will also consider this series of doubts, which have been expressed by those who put forward the opinions, as indicated in the letter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Izabela Mrzygłock, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft amendment to the Labour Code Act in print No 2830. High Izbo! The draft provides for the introduction after the article. 18 Art. 18, which imposes a new obligation on the employer to include in published job offers information on the amount of the proposed basic gross remuneration, which may not be less than the minimum remuneration for work. The new rules also introduce an additional infringement against workers' rights - an infringement of the obligation to include information on the proposed pay gap and to establish a employment relationship for a salary less than that provided for in the published information. According to the designers, the current requirements for posting remuneration information are not transparent. It is often the practice of employers to keep their salaries secret, which affects the discriminatory treatment of young workers and women who continue to earn less than men in the same positions. New solutions would help to increase the level of protection of these people and improve the recruitment process. However, the proposed solutions raise legislative concerns related to the issue of the various regulations of the Labour Code. It goes on, among other things. on the location of the proposed Article. 18 in a group of code rules that specify the principle of equal treatment in employment. In addition, the provisions relating to the new offence referred to in Article. Point 1 (2) of the draft law is not precisely formulated. The offence should be clearly defined. The proposed rules also do not take into account the situation in which the wage net provides for several wage components and not just the basic salary. The Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club recognises the need to discuss equal treatment of all groups of workers and reduce risks and even eliminate wage discrimination. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary club, I request that the project be referred to the committees for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u9	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, Mrs Barbara Chrobak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are few legal acts of law that are subject to constant changes as often as the Labour Code. Social life in terms of employment, in terms of employment, forces legislative changes to keep up with the needs of citizens so that they do not block their initiatives and guarantee their powers. As far as labour law is concerned, the most important piece of legislation, the Labour Code Act, should, as we all know, be looking forward to a comprehensive revision. How many more times are we gonna patch this lab coat? Maybe it's time for a comprehensive, realistic bill? Maybe it's time for solutions that weigh the interests of employers and, above all, take care of workers' rights? High Izbo! Time for the new Labour Code, time for the Labour Market Act. However, before this happens, I must stress that we welcome these small and desirable patches on this proverbial staff apron. In 2019 they entered into force and changes are made to workers on important issues such as new, higher minimum rates, payment of wages to the account instead of to the employee's hand, changes in the rules for the retention of employee files by employers, employee capital plans. And what an important change, which allows all workers to join trade unions so that they can gain representation of their interests so that they can be protected from illegal activities by employers. High Izbo! As we know, there are still very few companies in our country who decide to disclose the earnings they propose to potential employees in their job advertisement. The salary is a secret, and it's not just during recruitment. Moreover, employees themselves are ordered to keep their wages secret. All this is done to weaken the position of a potential candidate for an employee. This is also done to weaken the position of workers, especially where there are unequal rates of pay in the same positions. The candidate often learns about the amount of the salary only after several stages of the recruitment process or even at the time of signing the contract. Such practice is an unacceptable pressure. Ladies and gentlemen, it is logical that, knowing the pay range of offers in a given industry, employees will choose the best ones, guaranteeing them the highest pay. Publicity in the field of remuneration will also force the value of positions so that there is no discrimination between wage-based workers working on equal positions. It is worth pointing out here that this also applies to the staff of the budgetary sphere. It is not the candidate for an employee to indicate the amount for which he will work, it is the employer who is to offer it. Enough buying a proverbial cat in a bag. The transparency of employment conditions in the field of wages will allow a milestone to be taken in the civilisation of the labour market. Decent and fair treatment by employers of the right to reliable information should be a standard for a long time. A fair indication of whether the proposed amounts will be subject to negotiations and, finally, the prohibition to propose a remuneration below the minimum statutory remuneration is desirable and necessary. The Kukiz Club15, supporting Polish workers, supports and advocates their adoption by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jarubas provided his statement in writing. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I must tell you clearly that good work and decent earnings, not any benefits, are the key to the wealth of Poles. [[Applause]] Therefore, it is important that Poles consciously seek the most satisfying of them, but also the best paid work. Clear earnings - this is a modern proposal that can solve some of the problems in the current labour market. Something that in many countries is the norm, in Poland has a chance to become a revolution, but a revolution that supports 84% Poles. The Act: clear earnings, by Modern authorship, will bring many benefits to both Polish workers and employers. It has a chance to contribute to beneficial changes. We propose that, in job advertisements, the company looking for an employee should be required to provide pay forks for a free job. What are the advantages? Of course. First of all, today we have a market where the employee is really wanted. In this context, one of the most important elements is to increase the mobility of workers, and this is to increase mobility for both territorial reasons, i.e. due to the movement of workers within Poland to other places where workers are wanted in a particular profession, as well as in the sense of changing work to a better paid, more satisfactory one. We also need to think about getting people to change careers during their careers. Thanks to the income information we can encourage most of them to choose a profession that is better paid, sought, rather than the one that has done so far. Another point is to reduce the pay gap. This gap in Poland is not very large in salaries of men and women, but still occurs. I must say that a similar solution in Denmark has resulted in a 7% reduction in the pay gap. This means that it dropped to 15%. At the moment in Poland it is 18.5%. And this occurs not only in the system of women - men, but also older - younger workers. This is a chance that there will be no discrimination on grounds of sex or age, because everyone will be familiar with the same announcement and can expect the same earnings. Another issue is to shorten the recruitment process on the part of employers. And that's an advantage for the employer. Very often at the moment, the recruitment process is sometimes very expensive, and at the end of the recruitment process it turns out that earnings are a point of dispute. The employer expected that he had found the employee too much lower salary, and the employee was surprised when he finally heard the job proposal far dissatisfied him. In a situation where everything will be clear from the beginning - clear wages give the opportunity to do so - only the employee who actually considers the offer to be attractive will be guided to this place of work. We'll know everything before we talk about the money. It also reduces the risk of paying part of the wages under the table. This means that there is some further sealing in this area of the tax system, because if we know the amount of earnings in the job advertisement, then there is a less chance that the employer will then deal with the employee, or at least for him it is a greater risk, and will pay only a part of them in an open way. Another point is that it evens out the opportunities on the labour market in the sense that both employers and employees have the same knowledge. At the moment, it is very often that the employer knows how many people earn at the right job, while the employee goes a little blind, has no idea what pay he should expect and what pay he should demand. In this situation, we have equal opportunities for employees and employers. This has another advantage for young people who are to lead their own destiny, choose a career for the future, choose a school, choose a career. This gives them the chance to do so in a more conscious way. When they look at job offers in their territory, they can learn what studies to choose, what profession to choose, and how their career should take place. During low unemployment and the search for workers in many sectors of the economy, it is necessary to mobilise Poles to work and mobility. The solutions proposed by the Modern are becoming a cure for many problems of today's labour market. Therefore, as a Modern, we encourage all clubs to support our bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u13	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act. The aim of this project is to introduce into the Labour Code a provision obliging the employer to include the amount of the proposed basic gross remuneration in his employment offers. In addition, the lack of information on the remuneration in the published notice or the conclusion of a contract at a lower rate than that stated therein is expected to be criminal offences. I understand the intentions of the applicants who, when designing the regulations under discussion today, as they claim, were motivated by their willingness to combat discrimination and to treat the various social groups on the labour market unequally. This intention is undoubtedly right and worthy of support. I agree with the draft opinion of Poles and Poles cited in the explanatory memorandum, according to which information on potential remuneration should be included in the job offers. Candidates for a given position would know in advance what amount they might expect, working for a given position in a given company, whether this amount suits them and whether they therefore decide to apply for this position. This could definitely speed up the recruitment process. Taking note of the opinions of the Supreme Court, the Chief Labour Inspector or the Office of Sejm Analysis on this project, I see that it is not entirely thought out. It is not adapted to all possibilities, e.g. it does not take into account the specific characteristics of part-time employment or takes into account employers who are looking for candidates for work other than the publication of notices. The project is not compatible with the solutions contained in the Minimum Compensation Act. In view of these discrepancies, the Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the project be referred to the committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u15	Thank you. Mr Robert Majka, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u16	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft of the Labour Code in question is very important in my opinion, but on the basis of the issues discussed here, one should ask itself the first basic question: When will Poland face such a situation and such legal regulations that employers and employees will be treated in it similarly as in other countries of the European Union? I must say that my constituents, ladies and gentlemen, both men and women, ask me such a simple but very wise question, namely: When will Poles in the country be paid as well as in the European Union? Unfortunately, I have to answer that I'm not a government representative, I'm not in government, and, well, I can't do everything. My constituents are calling for Poles to be able to receive a fair wage for a decent job in one hour, and to pay it, as it is in the UK, for example. every two weeks. This is quite an interesting solution and in my opinion it should be noted, because it may be a solution leading to a more worthy treatment of the Polish employee. On the occasion, I have the following question to the Minister: When is the Minister going to bring in a project that would allow an employee to study at work? The point is that the employer should have the opportunity to express such a will, to allow the employee to learn. I'll be honest with you, there are some sharpenings here. Not every employer, Minister, is in favour of an employee being educated. In my opinion, it is very important that the employee raises his qualifications. I would like the Minister to take this into account. I have to say, when I continued my studies, I had some kind of perturbation myself, let's call it that. Finally, Minister, I believe that it is also important to pay attention to the harassment of workers due to political views. Paradoxically, I must say that this is also happening in 2018, 2019. I personally experienced some kind of ostracism for my independent views. I don't want to make them public here, because that's not the point, but I wanted to hear the Minister's opinion on how to counter this kind of practice. On the one hand, it is said that man has freedom of opinion, he can express it not only outside of work, but also at work. It is not about pursuing policies at work, but there are situations in which the employer, if he does not like the views of the employee, is rather informal, but rather annoying, he is simply harassing the employee. I'd like the Minister to take this into account. Thank you very much, Minister, and thank you very much to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u17	Thank you very much. Members have joined the task of questioning. The list contains 10 names. I am closing the list of Members of the Committee for Questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u18	Dear Marshal, Minister! Dear Members! Dear Complainer! I would like to ask if some forks should be introduced when it comes to job advertisements, so as to accept e.g. 2,000. to $4,000, from $2,000. up to 6,000. If we do not introduce such forks, some coefficient depending on the lowest national or on the basic payment, then the paper will withstand everything and can be stated in the announcement of the amount from 2 000. Up to 20,000. Then such a recipe will remain empty. I would therefore like to ask whether such an automatic amendment would be an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u19	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am directing the question to the Member of the applicant. You have mentioned that in many European countries this system is already in place. These notices are indeed notices containing information on remuneration. How does it look when it comes to the number of countries that have adopted such solutions, and how long have these solutions been in the labour market? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u21	Mrs Paulina Henning-Kloska, Modern Club. [[There is no Member.]] Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u22	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant. What impact will the bill we are talking about today have on reducing the pay gap between women and men, which is how clear wages will be affected? I know there are differences, a few people have already said it's about 20%, 18% Even though women aren't less educated. And the question is: Will the announcement of the amount itself prevent the pay gap at a later stage? I think we should accept, I like this disclosure at all, because that's the basic value, and I think it wouldn't be a problem with the suspiciously high earnings of your assistants to the president of the central bank if there was transparency in the job announcements in this case. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u23	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! I'm directing the question to the project applicants. Well, your proposal allows for some manipulation. Namely, an employer who in fact intends to grant a low salary to an employed worker can announce broad forks and thus create a false impression. Do you see the possibility of preventing such manipulation? And I'm gonna take the chance that there's time left. You mentioned that women earn less in Poland. Well, based on Eurostat data from the previous year, it can be said that indeed, but this difference is three times smaller than e.g. in Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic, so it would be worth giving such messages with such a comment not to create a wrong impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u25	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As life shows, in order to have a good worker, not a slave, one must take special care of the worker. Often companies only think about making money from the company, and they think about the employee only at the end. There's got to be a clear paycheck. No trash deals. You have to understand that the most important thing in every company is an employee. When that happens, the employer will benefit from it, but also the employee. Therefore, an employee needs to know how much he works, what social conditions he has, that he is surrounded by decent pay and social conditions, that he will be able to live decently, while there are no hidden earnings, that he will even be able to go away with his family on leave. Question: "Does the draft law provide clear, transparent earnings?" Yeah, I can see that. Then our fellow countrymen, and often our children, will not have to migrate in search of work to other countries as this happens. That is why I believe that the project needs to be addressed for further work, but also to work, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To make the wages as they are in the Western countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u27	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, as far as the employee side is concerned, this project is interesting. Firstly, because job seekers will not waste time submitting their offers where the remuneration does not match their qualifications or needs, and secondly, but somehow civilizes the elements of the recruitment process. On the other hand, I have a question for the Member of the applicant's representative. I would very much like to ask you to be polite once again very carefully to present to the High House the benefits of regulating this area, which concerns employers. This is a very important area. The salaries are one of the major components of the employer's operating costs and it would be good for them to, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that employers also benefit from this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u29	Mrs Alicia Chybicka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is extremely valuable. However, I have a question, because I am concerned that this will actually bring about equal pay between men and women, especially in the area of health care, where wages are now from Sasa to Las, and in the same position they vary from very low to very high. Questions: If an employer makes these forks very broad, which will give him great opportunities, will it improve the situation with regard to the lower limit of wages that he will not be able to go below? What are the guarantees that a woman employed in parallel with a man won't get less under these forks? Are these forks unlimited, that is, can you raise this upper limit as your employer invents it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u31	Member Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law is extremely important, also from a social point of view. Well, for the first time, this is the situation that employers and employees will be able to establish such relationships between themselves, which will be open and transparent. This transparency is the core value of this project and this must be clearly emphasised. There is also another aspect of this Modern proposal. Well, we can break free from this bad state of consciousness and constantly accuse employers of some bad practices. This proposal for a law finally offers an opportunity to regulate relations between employers and employees. Do you share this view?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u33	Mr Marek Jakubiak, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With some disbelief I observe, I listen to all the things that are happening here. Not one of them took sides on the employers' side. All of them, I would say, even populist terms at some point represent an employer as an enemy of an employee, an enemy who always wants something bad. Maybe we could think about doing a Code of Employer's Rights today, because what we hear here gives us the impression that employers are guilty of everything. The salary, whatever it may be, is the result of the work and the agreement between the two parties. If we interfere with this sacred law now, I ask: Where are we all going? If you're all so smart, show me how many people you've given a job in your life, and you'll see how complicated and difficult it is. [[Applause]] Employers maintain this country. Don't insult us and respectfully approach our hard work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u35	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Would you like to speak? State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Mr Stanisław Szwed. You're welcome, Minister. Minister, we're about to vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The official position of the government regarding the parliamentary draft Labour Code Act, contained in print 2830, is not present. As far as our ministry is concerned, we are positive about the project. This is an important issue, but it requires quite a lot of work. In September Ub. Mr Marshal of the Sejm sent this proposal to the Social Dialogue Council. In the framework of the Social Dialogue Council, the Social Dialogue Group is working on: labour law and this team is working on this project. At the moment, we do not have an official position on this project, as has already been the case in this discussion, nor do we have any opinion from a representative employers' organisation. We have only one opinion from the trade union.Solidarity. So that we will also be able to support the working position of the Social Dialogue Council team. It is also worth recalling here that, in recent times, we have made a lot of changes in terms of ensuring minimum basic wage guarantees. Let me remind you: the liquidation of the so-called. first-day syndrome, introduction of an hourly rate, and elimination of so-called. Sub-minimum, or 80% minimum wage for those under 5 years old. These decisions have made this minimum guaranteed payment for us assured. Other issues that are still being addressed here are worth considering, especially since the fork system also operates in the budgetary sphere and is also subject to reservations. So you have to look at the whole thing comprehensively when it comes to the issue of transparency of wages. As for the direction, we're in agreement. As for the question of Mr Mobbing, political discrimination, it is now in the Labour Code in Article. There are 11 records on this issue. Of course, there's a courthouse here. When it comes to improving qualifications, it is Article. 103 Labour Code and subsequent articles give the opportunity to both the employer's website, which can direct the employee, as well as the employee's website, which can benefit from such assistance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u37	Thank you. There is now a representative of the applicants, Mr Witold Zembaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u38	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to thank all the Members who have asked questions about this project: clear earnings on the obligation to inform about the amount of remuneration in their employment notices. Many doubts and questions concerned the issue of forks. Mr Kobyliński also raised this issue in his first question. He asked if it would be appropriate to propose in these regulations a rigid form of these forks, I do not know, let us give for it, according to his proposal, for 2 000. Up to 4,000. zł, from 4,000. up to 6,000. zł. When designing these provisions, we assumed that the new provision must interfere as little as possible with the freedom of entrepreneurs to carry out business activities and impose as little new obligations on entrepreneurs as possible, and this will also provide part of the answer to this question. The conclusion of such forks would definitely be so cumbersome that in a situation where we still have two categories, i.e. the basic wage and minimum wage, employers, creating a configuration of minimum wage components to the basic one, often add different allowances only after they have reached the minimum wage and they could simply have an additional problem with these forks. But I would like to reassure you, and this also concerns the answer to Mrs Chybick's question about the situation of health professionals after such legislation has been introduced. So, on the example of solutions analysed by us in Anglo-Saxon countries, but not only in Western European countries, we came to the clear conclusion that such a solution was introduced, i.e. the obligation to provide information on the level of remuneration in job advertisements does not result in employers making forks as stated here from Sasa to Las, because later these advertisements on the labour market cease to be attractive to employees and testify to the lack of integrity of the employer. So, of course, there is such a fear that the obligation to introduce forks instead of giving a specific amount may result in the extension of these forks to some extreme size. But I am calming down, in practice, the employment market in many of the countries that we have analysed does not occur because very quickly employees capture that it is simply an unfair job advertisement, one after which they can expect to conclude a contract for remuneration closer to the lower edge of these forks than the upper one. I answer further questions, among others. Mrs Ewa Lieder. Yes, of course, the intention of this project is to reduce the pay gap between men and women as much as possible. This is extremely difficult to comply with. A custom that can be formulated on the labour market plays a particularly important role. Poland does not look bad here. This pay gap is between 7% a 18.5% with a European average of 16.7% but in higher positions, better paid, e.g. managers, this pay gap is up to 27% The difference between what's paid to women and men. That is why we believe that the rules, i.e. clear earnings, will be through transparency of wages in the private sector to help reduce this gap, but they will also act as a cleansing effect on the public sector, where various job offers are often created, where only after disclosure of the various scandals, as we had in the case of the pay gap, we learn that salaries are significantly overpaid, higher than they should actually be. With regard to the question by Mr Dziuba, I have already actually said that these forks are in practice adverts, e.g. When we reach the second hemisphere, which is New Zealand, it does not lead to the fact that they are so wide-ranging, because this causes a lack of interest in advertising by employees. In his question, Mr Rometsky drew attention to a balance, a balance between employees and employers. It changes all the time in the labour market. I represent Opolskie voivodship, where e.g. in Opole, unemployment is very low, about 6% and nearby is the district low, where it is extremely high. The use of this additional balancing factor for employee relations - the employer by announcing the amount of remuneration in the notice of employment will influence the decision on mobility by employees of neighbouring powiats. Cooperation between local authorities, including large private sector employers, will lead to the fact that, knowing that 50 km away, you can earn money and start working well at all, employees will decide on employment. Member Mirosław Suchoń asked what the benefits are for employers. The benefit to the employer is twofold. Firstly, speeding up and improving the efficiency of recruitment processes. I am also referring to Mr Jakubiak's words: yes, Mr, I was an employer, I was hiring employees, I was conducting recruitment processes in a private company, so I also prepared these rules as practices. For employers, the only new burden that arises here is the need to use a few additional fonts in the job application. This is a project that does not create any new bureaucratic burden. It's just that in the content of the announcement, which is, for example. the custom on many job search portals where it is not possible to post an ad without giving the value of the salary, use a few fonts that determine the value of the salary. The same applies to the public sector. On the other hand, the huge benefit is that employers will stop losing, it is the effort put into multi-stage recruitment processes, which are not crowned with success. I have also conducted such recruitment processes. One, the other, the third conversation, and in the end it turns out that employees' expectations and pay opportunities of the company are falling apart and there is no conclusion of the employment contract. So because these regulations are not only designed because of the benefits for the employee, but also for employers, it is worth paying attention to them and continuing to process them, because at the moment the imbalance in the supply of workers on the labour market causes employers to want to recruit as quickly as possible the most adapted to perform the tasks in question. The best proof of this, Mr President, is the practice commonly used, for example. in the transport sector, where information on the level of remuneration of persons wanted to perform a role or function, i.e. the driver's work is one of the main factors of the effectiveness of recruitment processes. You can also see that e.g. In the commercial sector, discounts are increasingly providing information about the level of remuneration and thus ensure an effective supply of employees. So that this is a mutual benefit: for employees, as a result of being consciously involved in recruitment processes, they will be able to know the wage grid in the positions they hold, and they will also be able to find out if it is already a common rule that employers who recruit new staff must offer significantly higher salaries in the same job position compared to those already in their employment relationship. What's next? There was also a question from Mr Mieszkowski about transparency issues and answers in general to great social demand, but also, as you can see after a few issues, political issues on transparency of recruitment processes or in general the relationship of the employer - the employee. Yes, sir, of course, when we continue to proceed on the bill: clear earnings, we can be aware that the increase in transparency, for example. In the public sector, it's going to be great. The NBP case often appeared here, but this is not the only example. It is often the case that public opinion is appalled by various cases of employment also by local authorities in positions whose title does not receive very large salaries, and de facto this is the case. So this social control, too, in view of the need to publish the amount of wages in job advertisements, would be much more pronounced here and this will have a positive impact on...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u39	Mr President, could you please go to the end?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u40	...the full transparency of the public sector employment process. There were also questions about the effectiveness of these rules in practice. Mr Meysztowicz asked how it works in other countries, those in which we sought inspiration for the drafting of the bill: clear earnings. The labour market regulates this phenomenon very quickly. Let me give you an example here. The United Kingdom, where, in fact, the largest percentage of interest among workers is found in these announcements, which contain information about these earnings on a yearly basis. This information is often given also in terms of the bonus system, which leads to the fact that at the job search stage also people who are... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u41	Mr President, could you please move slowly towards the end?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u42	Mr. Marshal, four minutes, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u43	I know, but it doesn't make any sense what you're doing. Nobody's listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u44	Mr. Marshal, I understand, I'm very glad you're taking care of your time, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u45	Okay, talk to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u46	...in accordance with my law, I would still like to answer these questions and, in view of the forthcoming vote, make them as substantive as possible. So, Mr Meysztowicz, in the UK, such a system that informs about the level of wages per year is working very effectively, attracts to these announcements, many of our compatriots have tested it. But it's not the only example. You can also look at examples from other countries. I don't want to get divorced here. However, the conclusion is that market practice excludes, in the course of such a solution, all those announcements which are unreliable or eliminates those phenomena in which the employer tries to recruit in one position in two different ways, taking into account in two different values of remuneration in forks. I will also point out that during the preparation of the bill: clear earnings We have carried out extensive consultations, including with employers' organisations, and very interestingly, companies specialising in recruitment processes, i.e. looking for workers for large employers, are very positive for these solutions - this is also the answer to the questions of your Members - because they realise that the inclusion of information on the level of remuneration will be beneficial for speeding up the recruitment process and effectiveness, introducing a balance on the market and, above all, it is a solution that has already worked out well. So I invite you to support this project. I thank the High House for its attention. Sure pay, and you know where you want to work - that's my conclusion for the day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u47	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal introduces a non-existent obligation to publish gross wage rates in job offers. In our view, this is a step towards the transparency of the employee-employer relationship. The project can also be seen as a tool to combat discrimination based on the age of an employee or sex, as a response to numerous complaints from workers' and trade unions' environments about drastic, incomprehensible differences in pay for people who are often employed in similar positions in the same institution. The project can be implemented costlessly and will result in helping new people in the labour market to make an informed professional choice. The PSL-UED Club will support the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u49	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act, contained in print No. 2830, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 09 h 10 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Telecommunications Law Act and certain other laws, - amending the IWT Act, the Fish Market Organisation Act and the Maritime Fisheries Act. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints 3276 and 3274. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Formal requests shall be made by Members. Mr Richard Petru, near Now! [[Wait till spring comes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request a break. The KNF thing has been going on for three years, for three months, I'm sorry. We're about to vote on the point of dispute. In March 2018, Mr Chrzanowski offered Mr Czarnecki a favor for his bank in exchange for PLN 40 million. Katowice's D.A.'s office has charged Mr. Chrzanowski with exceeding his powers. Mr. Chrzanowski is now at large. And the questions to which the Prime Minister should answer: What was the supervision of the KNF from the Prime Minister? What actions have been taken to clarify the proposed corruption? Full information on Mr. Chrzanowski's candidacy as head of KNF. Who recommended him? How many times and in what cases did Mr. Chrzanowski meet at the Prime Minister's firm? If you have nothing to hide, I would expect a vote for the Prime Minister's information. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u51	Thank you. At the moment, Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 184 I would like to ask for clarification on yesterday's cancellation of the meeting of the panel. public debate to be devoted to the Warsaw LGBT Charter. Two hours before his appointment, Minister Kaczmarska cancelled the meeting of this team, which was attended by a representative of the Ministry of National Education...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u53	Mr. President, your motion...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u54	...a representative of the education board has arrived...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u55	...does not concern the agenda of the sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u56	This concerns the order of the Sejm's sitting, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u57	Sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u58	This is an outrageous thing that the state is doing this way. But here's what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u59	Mr, in a different mode, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u60	Mr. Marshal, let me finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u61	...please in a different mode, because this is not a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u62	The management of this Oberlejtnant von Nogaya Seym...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u63	Mr President, I draw your attention, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u64	...has really only caused tens of thousands of Internet users... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u65	I must take your vote away because it is not a formal conclusion. Mr President, there are procedures and please follow the procedures in these matters. With a formal request from Jerzy Meysztowicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I'm asking your marshal for a recess. I think it would be good for the marshal to convene the Senior Convention and for the Convention to reflect on the form of punishing Mrs Pavłowicz, who two days ago asked the opposition Members that we have a Fascist attitude. These outrageous words shouldn't appear in the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u67	Mr. President, that's not...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u68	I hope...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u69	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u70	The formal motion was for a recess...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u71	I'm so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u72	The motion was for...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u73	Such statements shall be made at the end of each day of the sitting of the Sejm. There's a point: making statements. And if, sir, you'd like a Sejm body, the Bureau or the Seniors' Convention, to deal with this, please do so in writing. So it's a request for a break, yes, but a justification. indicates that this is an informal proposal. Yes, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one request for a break. Mr Richard Petru formally submitted a request for interruption in accordance with the procedure and I will put this request to the vote. It is a formal request for an adjournment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 160, against - 243, the 8 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the KNF scandal, requested by the Circle of Members Now!, - Examination of the parliamentary bill on the limitation of work in commercial establishments, print No. 1969, submitted by the Modern Posel Club, - Information from the Minister for Justice of the Prosecutor General on the actions undertaken by the prosecutor's office and other services subordinate to him on the criminal activity of the SKOK Wołomin, notified by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition, - Information from the Minister of Infrastructure on the operation of the electronic toll collection system for the use of viaTOLL roads and the planned significant increase in the cost of service of the above mentioned. The system, in connection with... the long title is, reported by the Modern Posel Club. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We proceed with the vote on the proposal concerning information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the KNF scandal. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. Za-192, against-- 230, holding off on two. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal to consider a draft law on limiting the performance of work in commercial establishments. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 186, against - 226, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal for information on the actions taken on the criminal activity of the SCC Volomin. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 188, against - 227, holding down 3. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for information on the functioning of the electronic toll collection system for the use of viaTOLL roads and the planned significant increase in the costs of handling the above mentioned. system. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 191, against - 229, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: Information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2019. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, a modern club. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In one of the interviews, you said that Donald Tusk was a German candidate for President of the European Council. You also said Donald Tusk's choice was legal, but ethically questionable. This is a weak statement, testifying to the smallness and kind of summing up your European policy and this set of actions that you call foreign policy. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Therefore, Minister, I have a question for you: are you not able to refrain from exporting outside the legal and justice complexes? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u75	I thank the Member for this very interesting question. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting a rejection request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 188, against - 232, holding down 2. The Sejm's motion for rejection has been rejected. We return to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finance on the governmental draft law on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3228-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u76	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The Joint Committees: Education, Science and Youth and Public Finances conducted their first reading, examination and positive opinion at the meeting on 19 February, on the government's draft law on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund, contained in print No. 3200. At the 78th meeting of the Sejm on 13 March, the Sejm again referred the draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finance to examine the proposal and amendments tabled at second reading. The joint committees have examined the proposal and the amendments and recommend rejecting the proposal and adopting the amendments. The committee's report is contained in print No 3228-A. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Commissions bring to the High Sejm about the adoption of a government bill on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u77	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you, it's 3228. We will vote first on the proposal in the additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and the amendments. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Let me remind you that the committees are requesting that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is raised by Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It would simply take a lot more time to point out the shortcomings of this law than the few hours we have spent on the debate, but here I would like to draw attention to the fundamental error, namely that this law calls the so-called one. virtual research institutes. They are those who do not have legal force, and therefore the supervision of how they will spend funds is completely illusory. The point is, for example. they can take action on the search... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, would you please ask the House not to interfere?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u79	The Member's request is for the High House not to be disturbed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u80	Thank you very much. The point is, for example. These research institutes can simply take action to search for philosophical stone. This is completely ridiculous. Is this about just spending your money unsupervised? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u81	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 185, against - 237, halted 3. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 4 applicants propose a different wording of this provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Alicja Chybicka, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is: In the medical fields, will innovation be possible to report to all possible bodies - and receive funds from all these bodies - such as: the Medical Research Agency, a virtual institute that may arise as a result of this law, the NCBR? Why isn't the control planned? Because control over such a virtual institute is practically excluded. Is there really a need to create a new body, which in principle will only cause additional confusion in raising funds, while existing institutions could be strengthened? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u83	Thank you, Member. And we proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 260, against - 12, holding 145. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. Paragraph 7 Point 1 (1). The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u84	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment, introduced by the Law and Justice Club, is simply an amazing amendment at least. The problem is that in this amendment you assume that the managing body is an institution that does not exist, because the President has not yet signed the Law on the Łukasiewicz Research Network. Nevertheless, it is as if you are forcing the President to adopt the Łukasiewicz Research Network Act. It's just amazing. We cannot adopt laws that already contain legal shortcomings at the beginning, and that is when the Members of the Law and Justice are aware of it, because we discussed this at the meeting of the Education Committee. It's just funny. Do you simply want such a flawed law to make amends to your marshal's expectations? That's a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u85	We understand each other, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 234, against - 160, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 18 applicants propose to repeal point (a) of the first subparagraph. e in point 8 of Article. 2th Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. Za - 249, against - 146, 18 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 18a. The committees are asking for her party. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law really is compromising from the point of view of redistribution of resources to science, because it's not really about you giving some resources, it's about you just creating a new channel of redistribution in the form of a channel directly under the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. My question is this - and I would like the Minister of Science and Higher Education to answer this question - how will it be compensated for by higher education institutions that employees who are part of these virtual research institutes will benefit from the material base, the technological home university. This is not specified in this Act. And the Ministry's explanations at the committee meeting were just more embarrassing than the law itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u87	A question for the Minister. The Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Science and Higher Education Jarosław Gowin will respond to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that we are currently debating a draft law that will initiate Polish research on anti-cancer drugs. This law is modelled on the internationally recognised model of the Belgian model. Virtual research institutes mean, in fact, that no buildings are created, no new jobs are created, no business cars are purchased, only the best research teams, biomedical and biotechnology teams are emerging, which are financed from a ten-year perspective, and the result of their work is the creation of Polish anti-cancer drugs. What is the uniqueness of this action, and what is the benefit of scientific institutions? The advantage lies in the fact that all the scientific achievements are attributed to these institutions, which are derived from leading Polish doctors or biotechnologists. What is the public advantage? The public advantage lies in the fact that capital ownership, i.e. the ability to commercialise these researches, remains with the Polish state. So far it has been so that the intellectual property of Polish scientists was purchased by pharmaceutical companies. Have any of you heard of the Polish pharmaceutical company? Until now, we have sold the results of Polish scientists' work for the hat of pears to the largest pharmaceutical companies. Now this property will remain with the Polish state. The operator will be the Łukasiewicz Research Network and the beneficiary will be the general public. Is there anything controversial about this solution that makes the opposition clubs want to vote against this solution? I appeal to your Members to consider whether the climate of the election campaign is sufficient to justify your vote against the interests of the Polish state and against the well-being of patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But no one believes you anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u89	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 229, against - 175, stopped 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. There are questions in front of the whole thing. The question is raised by Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanations made by Minister Gowin differ with reality, because Minister Gowin did not say that some of the money that is earmarked for the Polish Science Fund is money that will be the responsibility of the operator who will manage these virtual research institutes. And besides, there's one more thing. You must realise that at the moment there are at least two channels of distribution of funds for Polish science in the form of the National Science Centre and the National Centre for Research and Development. There it would be peaceful to give this money as grants, and within that it would be possible to do the research that the Minister is talking about. But what is more worrying is what the Minister said, that so far Polish scientists using the Polish technology base have sold or simply given their achievements beyond the borders of the Polish country, and the only advantage of the solution you propose is that it will matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to their scientific achievements, not their actual achievements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u91	Thank you. The question is asked by Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, Minister! You're talking about more research and cancer prevention. You don't have to create funds, you have to give money to scientists. I'll mention Professor Ciecha, who has a drug, invented a drug and would like to patent it. All he needs is money for volunteer research, and he can't get money for it. So let's not create, let's not increase administration, let's not make funds that will take money just for research that will take money for drugs that are necessary to save people, to save lives, because money has been taken for this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u93	Thank you. Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Mr. Marshal! I think you can see quite clearly that this law is not only controversial, but it is clearly judged as merely a way of creating one's own institution at a time when there are other institutions that might as well play this role. We have the National Centre for Research and Development, the NCBR, so if we want to allocate some additional funding for research, we might as well allocate it to this institution. Creating more institutions means creating more jobs and actually increasing costs rather than reducing them. In addition, financing from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego also raises doubts about formal and financial solutions. For this reason, the question is quite clear: What is the purpose of this law and is there any justification for it except for purely populist, that it is impossible to fund research into cancer drugs in any other way than creating jobs for your friends? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u95	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Science and Higher Education Jarosław Gowin, asks for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the statements that have just been made here show that their authors do not know this project at all. I repeat once again: as a result of the creation of virtual research institutes, i.e. research teams, teams recruiting from the best scientific centres in Poland, no new jobs will be created. [[But no one believes the Minister.]] The Institutes are a name that operates in international circulation. I would also like to make it clear that this 0.5 billion initially spent on research is not money that would be taken from the fund of any existing scientific institution. [[But it's from taxpayers' money.]] These are the additional funds indicated by Prime Minister Morawiecki in the 2018 budget, the funds at the disposal of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. And finally what my previous speakers could not understand. Indeed, there is a National Science Centre, indeed there is a National Research and Development Centre, these are institutions distributing grants. If it were just the distribution of grants, it could be discussed whether a new mechanism in the form of virtual research institutes is needed. But the focus of this project is not distribution of grants, it is commercialization of research results. In short, the Łukasiewicz Research Network was created by a combination of 40 leading research institutes and will be involved in commercialisation of research results, i.e. leading to the production of Polish medicines for cancer. It is therefore not about distribution of grants. The idea is that this money should serve the Polish society and serve patients. Thank you very much. [[There was no ovation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u97	Thank you, Prime Minister. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print 3228, along with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Za - 239, against - 184, abstained 4. The Sejm passed a law on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3248-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting an additional report to the Committee on Public Finance, in print No. 3248-A, on the Government's draft law amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and some other laws, in print No. 3205. The Sejm at its 78th meeting, held on 13 March 2019, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3248 to the Committee on Public Finances in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. Two amendments were tabled during the second reading, which were approved by the committee. The Public Finance Commission, having considered the amendments at its meeting on 14 March 2019, asks the High Sejm to adopt the above draft law, together with the amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u99	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's 3248. The amendments that have been tabled in the additional report will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. 19e Act on the supervision of the financial market, the applicants propose among others. the new wording of paragraph. Two and three. The Commission, I remind you, calls for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 416, no one voted against, there were 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose to add Article. 4a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -423, against -1 stopped 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No. 3248, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For -419, against -1, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor, the Bankruptcy Law and the Law on Restructuring. The additional report shall be in print No 3226-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor, the Bankruptcy Law and the Law on Restructuring. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering one of the amendments tabled during the second reading, requests its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u101	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's a 3226 print. The amendment that was tabled in the additional report and the minority proposals will be voted first. Minority proposals 1 and 2 and the amendment were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on the License of the Restructuring Advisor. In the amendment, the applicants propose to add a new wording to the paragraph. Article 3 16a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -372, against -23, holding off on 32. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 1. the minority's request shall be without object. In the second minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording of the second sentence in Article. 20b in the mouth. 1. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act introduces supervision of the Minister of Justice over restructuring advisers carrying out restructuring and insolvency operations. It excludes from this supervision those activities of advisers, which are carried out directly at the request of the court, but does not exclude those activities of the restructuring entities which are carried out on the basis of decisions of the creditors' board or the collection of creditors. However, the main objective of restructuring and bankruptcy processes is to meet the needs of owners towards insolvent debtors. Why are you here introducing the possibility of interfering with decisions taken by creditors, and why are you reducing, demoting the role of creditors in restructuring and bankruptcy processes, giving control over the actions of their appointed minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u103	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the second minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. Sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six, against 234, holding off on 26. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests 3 and 4 have been made in Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Insolvency Law Act. In the third minority application, applicants propose not to add paragraph. Article 1a 170. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the third minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 167, against - 227, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th minority application, applicants propose to add paragraph. 1ae in Article 311. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 4th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 165, against - 228, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland there are more than 1000 restructuring advisors who conduct bankruptcy and restructuring activities under the supervision of courts scattered throughout Poland. This law introduces, in addition to judicial supervision, supervision of the Minister of Justice over them. The Minister of Justice will be able to demand all the files of the proceedings, which have been completed, and are in the process, which can improve this work, but can only extend it. Moreover, according to the ruling of the Constitutional Court, the collection of files of cases completed or pending by the Minister of Justice may constitute interference with the essence of the judicial authority. If we would like to strengthen the action of the courts in this area, the analytical capacity of the courts should be strengthened, rather than increasing the constitutionally questionable and bureaucratic supervision of the Minister of Justice. Why didn't you go? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the direction of strengthening the courts, only towards the supervision of the Minister of Justice over all restructuring activities throughout Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u105	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Law No 3228 with one amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 254, against - 158, the 15. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the License of the Restructuring Advisor and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on Traffic Law and the Criminal Code Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3250-A. Third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the government's draft law amending the Traffic Law and the Penal Code Act. The Commission recommends rejecting two amendments and adopting this regulation. It is worth saying two sentences on this point. Namely, the purpose of the proposed regulation is primarily to eliminate the pathological phenomenon of unauthorised interference in the indication of the vehicle counter. It's a comprehensive regulation designed to prevent unauthorised interference in the mileage. The Act consists of a section on changes in the Road Traffic Law, where new administrative obligations are created, addressed not only to vehicle owners and owners, but also to public authorities and services, and a second part, including the Penalization of certain behaviours which aim at unauthorised and unjustified interference in the indication of the road-meter. The proposed regulation is intended to fill a real, existing gap, guaranteeing the certainty of trading and preventing unfair practices of people selling motor vehicles - with this important legal defect. It is worth once again expressing appreciation for the government's initiative on this matter and thanking the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Infrastructure. All parliamentary clubs voted in favour of this regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u107	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's a print number 3250. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. These amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Road Traffic Law Act. In the first amendment to Article. 1 the applicant by the addition of paragraph. 4 propose not to apply the laws to historical vehicles within the meaning of the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment made by the Kukiz club15, which was really passed to us by the social side, we propose that antique vehicles be excluded from the rigour of this law. The social side, i.e. historical associations and lovers of antique vehicles, claims that this regulation will make it harder for them to carry out their passions. They're asking for these vehicles to be excluded from this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u109	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform - Coalition Club is entirely behind this law, but this amendment is very important. She is important in terms of creating a certain cultural heritage. When it comes to cars, antique vehicles, 20 and 40 years old, this is a piece that shows a certain culture of technology. Therefore, it is not very understandable why the government is so persistent that this amendment is not included in this bill. I would ask you to explain why this applies to these cars, where very often these hobbyists, who put their own money into it, their own time, try to make them regional parts, among others. It's these meters, the meters. I would very much ask for a really reliable approach and an explanation of why there is opposition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u111	Thank you. I see no one's bothering. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 191, against - 216, 15 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 81b applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question will be asked by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment was also delivered to us by the social side, this time not by lovers of antique vehicles, but by employees of vehicle control stations. Interestingly, they've had a hard life with you lately. You wanted to introduce one very harmful bill. Luckily, we were able to withdraw it. Now there's another record that's supposed to give them responsibilities. You want the diagnostic stations, the vehicle control stations to determine the state of the meter, while the bill makes it clear that it can actually be done by a citizen who can transfer this state of the meter to the communication department. Why include an additional institution in this? I think we can trust citizens enough not to cheat on this issue, and even if somebody cheats, in the nearest technical research, such fraud will simply come out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u113	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 47, against - 358, 20 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, there are questions. Member Paweł Szramka, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although you have rejected our amendments, we will still vote in favour of this law because most of the provisions in it are very good. Of course, cheaters should be punished. On the other hand, on behalf of those social groups that have addressed us with amendments, not even on behalf of Kukiz,15, but on behalf of citizens, I would ask you to reflect on these comments, which, moreover, have been made very often at the meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure. They often bounced off the wall. The point is that in the future, you should think about amending this law and take into account those issues that citizens are discussing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u115	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the purpose of the bill is as good as possible, but let us not charm ourselves and pretend that this law will solve all the problems. No, this bill won't solve the problems of this area. Unfortunately, these problems will not be fully resolved, but they will certainly help to safeguard the interests of citizens, some of the interests. I have one question for the Ministry. Because of this law, further obligations will be imposed on operators operating vehicle control stations. I would like to ask whether the Ministry is planning to make up for these additional responsibilities in some way. I'm asking you this because this is the next time you hit this industry of vehicle control stations. It's starting to be such an unpleasant business thing for entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the State, together with the imposition of these obligations, also pay businesses for all these activities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u117	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Polakzek, would like to provide information on questions and doubts that arise. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, before voting on the whole of the bill, I would like to point out only what legal act we decide here, and how much social importance this act has. I would like to remind you that according to the statistics of the Ministry of Digitization and the research that has been commissioned in the scope of this regulation, the number of cars, in quotes, with a twisting meter is a minimum of 240 thousand. vehicles, i.e. 1,27% all cars in Poland. According to data from the Central Information Technology Centre, this situation may affect up to 20% of all vehicles registered in Poland, of which there is a total of over 59 million. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u119	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3250, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For -417, against -3, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Law on Criminal Code. We return to item 9 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs: - on the parliamentary bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war periods and certain other laws, - on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and certain other laws, - on the Senate bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the Law on Road Traffic, - on a government bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war periods and certain other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3279-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, print No 3279-A, on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of post-war repression and some other acts, print No 428, on the Commission's draft law amending the law on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and some other laws, print No 1888, on the Senate bill amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war and post-war repression, and on the law on road traffic, print No 2523, and on the governmental bill amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war and post-war repression and some other laws, print No 2671. At its 78th meeting on 13 March, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3279 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs to examine four amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and 17 amendments by the Parliamentary Club of the PO-KO. The Commission proposes rejecting amendments 1, 2, 8 to 10, 14 to 17 and 19 to 21 and 4 to 7 and 13. and to accept amendments 3, 11, 12 and 18 and to adopt the entire draft law in accordance with print no. 3279-A. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u121	Thank you. The amendments that have been tabled in the additional report will be voted first. Let me remind you, it's a 3279 print. Amendments 1 to 8 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. In the first amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 1a 4. Amendments 2, 8 to 10, 14 to 17 and 19 to 21 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Sławomir Jan Piechota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u122	High Seym! I would like to ask the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy why the PiS Government does not want to include soldiers of miners and other people similarly repressed in the post-war period to a circle entitled under the Act of January 1991 on Combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. Why will miners' soldiers continue to be covered by a separate 1994 law, whose distinctiveness clearly indicates the title: the provision of money and the powers of military substitute soldiers forced to employ in coal mines, quarryings, uranium ore plants and construction battalions? A separate bill means worse treatment. This feeling of being worse will not change any more minor, fragmented, sometimes cosmetic changes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's include the miners' soldiers in the basic bill. And that's what our amendments are about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u123	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the amendments mentioned earlier, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 193, against - 230, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 19c applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. Amendments 11, 12 and 18 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We as Civic Platform support this project, but I am also aware that full care, full support for Warsaw insurgents, for veterans provides at the moment local government, especially the Warsaw government. I would like to say that we have waited a very long time for a law which allows the local government to fully finance the stays of combatants, Warsaw insurgents in social assistance homes. Warsaw launched a mechanism through which for all Warsaw insurgents... [[That doesn't apply to this bill.]] ...the social services are open and their stays are fully funded by the local government. The proposal we had was simple: 50% finance local government, 50% finances the state budget. You have given this responsibility fully to the local government. Warsaw is a rich self-government, Warsaw can afford it. But what is the situation in other cities, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether these local governments are able to finance 100% Veterans' stays in social services? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u125	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 3, 11, 12 and 18, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 285, against - 132, halted 3. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose that the provisions of the Article. 20 were about the veteran's parking card. Amendments 5 to 7 and 13 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Sławomir Jan Piechota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u126	High Seym! Again, the question to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Why does the PiS government ignore the demands of the organisation of disabled persons to introduce in the mode of issuing parking cards to combatants minimum protection against the use of these cards by unauthorised persons, minimum safeguards such as those already in force for disabled persons? The point is that you can only have one parking card - this mode proposed by you now means that you can have two parking cards at the same time, and this is related to the person who is in the vehicle - and that the card is issued for a maximum period of 5 years, because only such protection protects you from using the card after the death of the authorized person, and finally so that these parking cards of veterans are also in the CepiK register, which will allow the police to keep on-line checks. And that's what our amendments are about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] requests from organisations of persons with disabilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u127	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 4, 5 to 7 and 13, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. Za-192, against- 229, holding off on two. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Before voting on the whole question, Mr Jan Piechota asks Mr Sławomir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u128	Question for the government. For those we are talking about today, combatants and repressed persons, because of their age and health, the main problem is to provide adequate care. Why, then, does the Government of PiS not comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of October 2014 on benefits to caretakers of persons with disabilities? The paradox and hypocrisy of this situation is that this judgment was demanded by the PiS Members represented by... [[And who ruled in 2014 and 2015?]] ...Mrs Mark Ast and Stanislaw Swede. The term of office ends, and it is now known that during this term of office, i.e. despite the passing of four years, the PiS government will not fulfil its own commitment. Was it just an empty promise before that election? Can further promises made today in view of the next elections be taken seriously in this situation? [[Applause]] [[Who ruled in 2014 and 2015?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u129	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 3279, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For -421, against -1, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. Third reading. The additional report shall be in print No 3231-A. I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u130	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Two amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission recommends rejecting them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u131	Thank you, Member. The Commission proposes, as we hear, the adoption of a draft resolution from print no.3231. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. In the first amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, applicants propose not to add Article. 126aa. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. There are no questions. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 160, against - 247, holding down 5. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The whole thing, we vote on the whole thing. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in full from print no.3231, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 282, against - 123, holding down 1. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law on the amendment of the Public Road Act. The additional report shall be in print No 3273-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Infrastructure Commission on print No 3273-A concerning the government draft law amending the Public Roads Act. At the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on 14 March, a request was submitted for rejection of the project, but this request was not received by a majority at the meeting of the Committee. In addition, amendments were tabled, which were also not accepted by the committee, and rightly so, because the bill is very good. It concerns the national toll collection system. We all know that the National Payment Collection System is related to building the potential of a national road fund. Therefore, any sealing and improvement of the toll collection system will have a very good impact on the road fund. Besides - this is probably the most important - we are entering a stage where the whole toll collection system is dependent on public administration. There are no more private entities here. The public administration fully controls the toll collection system. I therefore recommend that this bill be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u133	Thank you. We will vote first on the proposal to reject the proposal in its entirety and the amendments that have been tabled in the report. And I will be the first to vote on a motion to reject the bill in its entirety. The Commission, I remind you, requests that this proposal be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The questions are asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very bad bill and it should be rejected. I therefore support the motion to reject it. This bill only seems to apply to roads. Indeed, it concerns the provision of special services with tools for universal, total surveillance on public roads. The Minister of Infrastructure, instead of financing the construction of roads, will finance the infrastructure of the police state. And the Road Transport Inspection by accident, unconsciously, will be transformed into a special service, another special service, which will follow the Poles on the roads. Minister! Do you have too much money? Minister, why do you want to follow the Poles? Why do you want to strengthen the police state? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u135	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u136	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! You're right, Minister Grabarczyk. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no seal, it's nationalization and surveillance. At this first stage of nationalisation many lucrative posts were created in the administration, now we have a second stage in which even more lucrative positions will be created so that they can be filled with Misiewicz. But that's not all, of course. The project basically introduces the freedom of choice for the contractor and allows to hide information about how much it will cost. In addition, it introduces the provisions already mentioned here enabling total surveillance. And I have one, actually two questions. First of all, how much will it cost, Minister? And secondly, Minister - I know you and I know that unlike many of your colleagues, you are not inclined to look under the covers of Poles, what they do there - a project is being implemented with your hands, which will introduce total surveillance. And I'm asking you why you agreed to this. Why did you agree that this total surveillance would be brought in with your hands? [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u137	Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I do not hide that I am astonished to receive assessments and opinions regarding this bill. They appeared on Wednesday at the first reading of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, and also appeared at the second reading. In the plenary room there appeared these doubts, also allegations about surveillance, universal surveillance, the construction of a system of universal surveillance, such as that, seems, orwellian Big Brother, who will watch over everything and inform about everything that is happening on Polish roads. And now I hear these charges again. I would probably understand a questioner who does not understand certain mechanisms, who is a member of the first term of office, who learns all these difficult processes connected with the collection of fees, those difficult processes which are also connected with the possibility of being used by the police or other services with information that is available and which are collected by the toll collection system. But when these doubts are raised by people, Members who have full knowledge of how it works, I ask: Gentlemen, what are you afraid of? What kind of phobias do you think you're making, not other grades? What are you afraid of? The toll collection system has been collecting information since its creation. And that is what his creator, who is present in the courtroom, is aware of, and asked that question. I'm talking about the creator, the Minister of Transport of the time. After all, not anyone else, only the system administrator had this knowledge fully available. Of course, since 2012, ladies and gentlemen of the Civic Platform, I will remind you that you have made efforts to systematize access, among others. Police, access to information collected in connection with toll collection on national roads. And somehow, in particular, you failed to agree on these processes in legal mode. And what did that do? This resulted in the fact that the tax system could not be sealed. If we look at this from the point of view of the interests of the State, then absolutely the worst possible scenarios have been your participation since 2012. And that is absolutely undeniable. You're saying it's a completely non-transparent system. This draft law allows the construction of a new system of charging only to institutions controlled by the State, only to public bodies. That's the added value of this venture. The agreement concluded between the main road transport inspector and the designated entity building the system, the kernel of this system, especially the IT kernel, will be open, accessible. The costs of this project are also available because they are described in the 2017 Act. Mr. Speaker! I understand that for some reason you have concerns about your political environment. They're probably authorized. It's kind of haunting you all the time, but... [[What kind of innuendo is that?]] ...I repeat once again: in 2017 we introduced provisions which sanction the access of services to this information, and in this act we only clarify these provisions due to the provisions of the GDPR. So that you shot very hard, you didn't notice in 2017 that we introduced these regulations, and today, for completely incomprehensible reasons, you ask why we are building a system of universal surveillance. He is a system of universal surveillance only in your imagination, ladies and gentlemen or the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u139	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 163, against - 245, with a hold of 7. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Public Roads Act. In the first amendment to Article. 13hb applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 1j. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Instead of answering the question, you put the insinuations here. The difference is that so far other services have been able to use the data on request and will now use it online. And that's the difference, that's the total surveillance. Now, let me get to the question. The National Pay Collection System is reformed in two stages. The first stage is the transfer of the system to the Main Road Transport Inspectorate last year, and today this law is carried out by the choice of the designated operator. Both take place without public tender procedure. Question: "What are the reasons for such action?" The arguments contained in the explanatory memorandum on the need for optimization have as much to do with this as optimization [[♪ The bell ♪]] costs on infrastructure contracts, Minister, 3 years ago. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u141	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister why the Ministry wants to hide from the public the actual costs of implementing the toll collection system. First you said it would be cheaper, now you're saying it wouldn't be more expensive. But that's the fundamental difference. It's all based on a rather questionable paradigm that state units are not profit-oriented. I must say that this is such a contribution of Law and Justice in economic terms, which is not shared by the rest of the world, but in Poland it has to be different. Well, Minister, maybe it's just that these costs are going to be higher. To check this out, I encourage you to vote in favour of this amendment, introducing transparency, because in fact, the adoption of this amendment will allow Poles to know the real scale of the wastefulness of the Government of Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u143	There you go. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 163, against - 227, 27 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 13he. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The questions are asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń and later by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! That's the recipe that allows this total surveillance. Let me remind you, Minister, that during the committee meeting you first explained to Members that it is important that the carriage of sensitive goods can be monitored from a tax point of view. When we explained to the Minister that an appropriate system had been put in place, he was functioning perfectly, as the Ministry of Finance informs, you changed the narrative a little bit, saying that, in fact, this point, this new provision does not change anything. However, the truth is that today every service is entitled to obtain information, but this must be done on request, in the manner in which it exists, I would say, institutional supervision. However, what you are introducing, unfortunately in the next law, will lead to an online connection to the database of all authorised services and without any supervision, as he mentioned [[♪ The bell ♪]] General Data Protection Officer, these services will be able to use this data at any time without any information from those who run these databases.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u145	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u146	So what is it if it's not total surveillance? Please accept the amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u147	Thank you, sir. Mr Grabarczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Adamczyk is right about one thing. Indeed, the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party created an electronic toll collection system. Thanks to this, 12 billion PLN goes to the National Road Fund for distribution on motorways, express roads, on national roads. That's what it takes for the A1 motorway from Torun to Częstochowa. Success? Success. And you want to create a surveillance system. Proof? In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on page. 3 in point 5 is written: the purpose of the Act is to improve the transmission of data to the relevant services. There's no need for that. You want to follow the Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What are you screaming about?]] The National Tax Administration has its own system. Don't fool the Poles. Mr. President! What do you need it for? What's that for? [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Don't yell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u149	Thank you very much. Please, let's stop the emotions. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 163, against - 230, halted 23. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 3 applicants propose a new date for the entry into force of the Act. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Stanisław Żmijan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We ask you to support this amendment, as it is the time set for ordering matters around the toll collection system. The chaos and abandonment of the infrastructure department and the incompetence of the Main Road Transport Inspection in the area of toll collection result in serious decreases in revenues to the National Road Fund. Already at the beginning of 2018 it was possible to integrate 234 km of express roads and 500 km of other national roads into the system, and this would give revenue to the National Road Fund in the amount of PLN 250 million per year. Question: "Mr. Minister, why do you remain a mess?" And the question to the Prime Minister: Why doesn't the Prime Minister respond to this situation? [[That's a question for the president.]] [[And to the president, of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u151	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The amendment, of course, concerns a delay in the date of entry into force of the provisions under consideration by the High House. Question for Members of Law and Justice: Do you really want your colleagues to monitor, monitor your friends, your families? If you don't want to vote for this amendment. Let us prepare good rules that we will implement and which will pursue the objective that this law should pursue, namely the collection of road charges, not total surveillance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u153	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 164, against - 230, with 24. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole of the bill, there are questions. Mr Stanisław Żmijan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Unfortunately, the contested law cannot obtain our support because the regulations contained therein have nothing to do with rational and transparent management of public funds. I am therefore asking about the costs of taking over the system by the Main Road Transport Inspection, as well as the costs of operating it after 2 November 2018. With whom was the contract concluded, in what mode and for what time? Is this a contract concluded with Kapsch and was it agreed to the conclusion of the Public Procurement Office? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u155	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have some basic questions for the Minister. Minister! Isn't there really more important tasks in the infrastructure department than nationalisation, surveillance, or spending time and stools for your own? Is it really that housing programs work effectively? Is it really that you don't have a problem with road tenders, that you don't have a problem with rail tenders? Does everything really work so well that you're in charge of surveillance, nationalization? Is this the job of the infrastructure department? Minister! This is the moment where we can stop, where the High House can stop this bad project because it's not gonna do any good. He introduces surveillance and wastefulness, the possibility of public spending. I really appeal to the Minister: please leave here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and appeal to their colleagues to vote against, because this is a bad project, Minister, a very bad project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u157	Thank you. Infrastructure Minister Andrzej Adamczyk asks for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, While I was sharing my reflections on the debate on today's bill, I may have had some doubts. I'm not surprised now. This temperature of debate, this temperature of discussion fully justifies the question: What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of... [[Voice from the hall: Lord!]] ...in view of the fact that the server's work on automatic access of services to data in the toll collection system started already in 2012? Why weren't they successful? Can you tell me? Because the private operator at the time made such conditions, that he prevented the services, made it impossible for you to... [[And that's the essence of things - the service.]] ...the adoption of regulations that allow access to this information. When we talk about the tax control system, yes, the SENT system works, but... [[That's it.]] ...the information collected by the toll collection system will also be useful to the tax services and, above all, to the tax services. [[Applause]] If you didn't know what was going on with the billions of zlotys, because you couldn't seal the tax system, you should know and be convinced that this tax system is being sealed as a result of these solutions. It's not gonna be the way it was. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u159	Thank you. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3273, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 230, against - 161, holding off on 29. The Sejm passed a law amending the Public Road Act. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the proposal at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project you're presenting is a project that is incompatible with all standards of a decent process. You said there'd be a great reform of the criminal procedure, you said you'd do great things. In the meantime, what did you do? You have caused the collapse of the Polish judiciary. More than 3 million outstanding cases from previous years remain. In criminal matters, 22% of cases are pending. A lot of backlogs. Several hundred judges unattended. And you guys are in charge of getting the D.A. promoted to district court president. You're just dealing with your staff business. What are you doing in a criminal procedure? You're making it possible to interrogate witnesses without the defendant's involvement. You're leading me to believe that a prosecutor without a defendant, without his attorney, despite his legitimate absence, will be able to [[♪ The bell ♪]] Interrogate witnesses. This is completely absurd in a criminal procedure, which you're trying to introduce. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Robert!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u161	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Jachnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! Because this is a government project, I wanted to find out where Minister Ziobro is right now, who is responsible for this project, [[Applause]] or where the prime minister is right now, if this is a government project. [[Voice from the hall: Hungary.]] And this is for two reasons, ladies and gentlemen. Well, in 2007, when a private indictment, a subsidiary, was introduced, Minister Ziobro said that by taking this project... [[Game in the O.R.]] Oh, I'll wait. ...that introducing a project under judicial supervision will result in an accelerated criminal trial. This was the case in 2007, Minister, when this project came into force and you voted in the Sejm in 2007. Today the project is exactly the opposite, so we're going back to the old system, before 2007, and you're going to vote again, saying that this is going to accelerate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it's going to prolong and hide criminals. Why do you make these rules? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u163	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application for rejection at first reading of draft Print Act 3251, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 181, against - 237, holding down 3. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the act on tax on goods and services and the Tax Order Act. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Bureau of the Sejm, sent this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Genowef Tokarska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture, Minister Ardanowski. This project, in order to arrange VAT rates, harms Polish farmers, sadists and processors. I'd like to ask the Minister if he's willing to make such decisions, such a bill. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are reducing to 5% the VAT on tropical fruit, citrus fruit, certain nuts, coconuts, pistachios, etc., also so-called. junk food, i.e. for chips, waffles, cookies, everything up to 5%, while we drastically raise the stakes on the so-called. fruit drinks with a contribution of more than 20% of the juice. I ask: Is this the solution to this difficult situation in agriculture? Farmers are protesting on the streets, and we're getting them a gift like this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u165	Thank you. Mr Sachaiko has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The bill works to the detriment of Polish farmers, processors, Polish citizens, increases VAT on Polish drinks by 18% and at the same time reduces VAT on citrus and garbage food to 3%. My question to the Ministry of Finance is this: Why does the Ministry of Finance work in favour of international corporations and at the same time under the cover of facilitations, simplifications destroy the rest of Polish producers, processors, destroy the health of our children, our young people? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u167	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Instead of introducing a comprehensive reform of the PiS VAT simply raises VAT on the most popular drinks with the content of fruit juice 20% It's 50%. We will probably hear again that you are lowering taxes, although as a result Polish consumers will pay 18% in a moment more for the drink you'd like to drink. Thus, the PiS destroys another branch of Polish agriculture. I have a question. Where's Minister Ardanowski, who isn't in the gym today? He hid and pretended that the problem did not concern him, instead of defending Polish processors, sadists and consumers. As a result of the implementation of this law, the demand for Polish fruits, on apples, perhaps, is estimated to fall even more by 120 thousand. i. I really am not surprised to farmers that they are dumping apples on the streets of Polish cities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u169	The question is asked by Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister Ardanowski! You are playing at the agricultural fair at the moment, and in this Chamber - I do not know if the President knows about it - the ministers of the President are imposing an embargo on Polish apples, because that is what it needs to be called. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Polish drinks, which are outstanding on a European scale, because they have the highest content of natural juice, above 20%, the Minister of Finance charges additional VAT. [[Applause]] They will be more expensive, which will make it less often bought, and the sadists will not sell their apples, ladies and gentlemen. Where is Minister Ardanowski who fought and defended himself against a vote of distrust yesterday? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Today, in this courtroom, we vote against him. It's a votive. [[Applause]] And Mr PiS Members, you have written to Prime Minister Moravian deed, and he left you unanswered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u171	Thank you. There you go, Mr Richard Terlecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal motion for a 15-minute break. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u173	Thank you. I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 51 hrs. 12 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 14 of the agenda. I'm announcing an additional five-minute break and calling the Senior Convention right now in the dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 06 hours 12 min 13]] I'm reopening the session. High Seym! After consulting the Seniors Convention, I made a decision and inform you that I'm taking it off. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] item 14 on the agenda... [[Some Members get up and clap]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] [[Some Members get up and chant: Jarosław! Jarosław! Jarosław!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are removing from the agenda the examination of point 14: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Nor will we vote on the proposal to reject this project at first reading. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. Third reading. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law, from print number 3275. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 380 Members voted. For - 376, against - 2, holding off on 2. The Sejm has passed a law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of an agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on the rules of conduct of certain financial market entities from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Gibraltar in connection with their resignation from the European Union. Third reading. The additional report shall be in print No 3289-A. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance in print No. 3289-A on the Government's draft law on the rules of conduct of certain financial market entities from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Gibraltar in connection with the withdrawal from the European Union, print No. 3258. At its 78th meeting of 14 March 2019, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 3289 to the Committee on Public Finance to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. Two amendments were tabled during the second reading, which were accepted by the committee. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 15 March 2019, asks the High Sejm to adopt the above draft law together with the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u175	Thank you. The amendments in question will be put to the vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 3 applicants shall propose to extend the period referred to in that provision by 12 months. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For -404, against -1, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 8 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 388 Members voted. They were all in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We vote on the whole thing. Let me remind you, this is 3289. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 3289, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. For - 395, against - no one, abstained 1. The Sejm has passed a law on the rules of operation of certain financial market entities following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee on the Government draft law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3290. The question is asked by Mr Szczerba. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Politicians often bravely solve the problems they themselves have created. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, she is in the UK. Yesterday, the Chamber of Commons passed a resolution calling for a delay in the Brexit. But this case also has consequences for a million Poles and Poles living on islands. I have a question: Does the government intend to strengthen consular service against the expected problems of registration of a million Poles in a system confirming the status of a resident? Such a system has been launched by the British Government and it will be necessary to prove its presence in the UK for a period of 5 years. What's the problem? The problem is that biometric passports are very useful for this system. Some Poles on the islands do not have such passports. Does the government intend to strengthen consular service in a situation where there will be a significant number of applications in a moment [[♪ The bell ♪]] on this issue? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u177	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 3290, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For -411, against -3, no one stopped. The Sejm has passed a law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. We would like to return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: The report of the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law on the rules for determining the ranking of the seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019.2024. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3292. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 3292, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - 296, against - 2 stopped 107. The Sejm passed a law on the rules for determining the order of filling the seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019 and 2024. We return to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. The question is asked by Mr Sachaiko. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law, on which we are proceeding, gives responsibility for biological progress, for Polish breeding to organizations and trade unions. It's such a saw wash of hands in the matter of biological progress and breeding. Organisations should not be responsible for biological progress, but the State should be responsible. Yesterday, during the debate on the vote of distrust for Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, the Minister said that he would not allow the breeding of horses to go into private hands. I ask the Minister: What are cows, pigs, other animals worse than horses? Why are we defending horses and giving breeding to other animals to private organizations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u179	Please. And we're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application for rejection at first reading of draft Print Act 3175, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 29, against - 385, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 7 May 2019. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Telecommunications Law and certain other laws (Prints No. 3252 and 3276). I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Telecommunications Law and certain other laws, print No 3252. The Commission was meeting on 12 March. considered four amendments to the bill adopted by the Senate. The Commission voted on these four amendments. On behalf of the Commission for Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, I recommend the adoption of amendments tabled to the Law amending the Law on Telecommunications Law and certain other laws. I would like to point out that the changes being examined are in line with the European Union's rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u181	Please. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. The Senate amendments from 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the telecoms law. 1st Amendment of the Senate to the Rule. Points 1 and 3 of 110a are editorial. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 8, against - 395, there was a hold-up of 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 116b The Senate proposes to extend the period referred to in this provision by 1 year. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For -2, against -412, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 123 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 2e. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 155, against - 256, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act on Radiophony and Television of the Senate in Art. Article 38b (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 proposes that the words "after obtaining' be replaced by "after service'. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 1, against - 411, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Inland Navigation, the Law on the Organisation of the Fish Market and the Law on Maritime Fisheries (Prints No. 3253 and 3274). I ask Mr Sylwester Khrushch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, to present a report to the committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Inland Navigation, the Law on the Organisation of the Fish Market and the Law on Maritime Fisheries, print No 3253. The Commission considered this resolution at its meeting on 13 March 2019. The Senate proposed nine amendments of an editorial and clarification nature. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u183	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. The amendments of Senate 1, 2, from 4 to 6 and 8 are editorial. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Leszek Ruszczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The development of inland waterway transport depends mainly on the operator of our waters, i.e. on the State Water Farm of Poland. Because there are disturbing news coming from there, I have a question: Is it true that 200 four-wheeled SUVs purchased for managers only came to Warsaw so that the president could take a photo with the fleet? Is it true that these cars came back to the parking lot and waited out...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u185	Mr President, your question does not concern these amendments. [[It does.]] The amendments are editorial, so I apologize.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u186	That is just a question, Mr. Marshal: Does the organizational state of Polish Waters guarantee hydrological safety in case of weather anomalies? Thank you very much. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u187	Well, that's what we're dealing with here. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 1, 2 from 4 to 6 and 8 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For -2, against - 409, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. 1 point (8) (a) c the amending act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. For - 2, against - 398, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 7. The Senate proposes an amendment to the article. Point 21 of point 1. Amendment 9 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 7 and 9, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. The absolute majority is 199. Two Members voted against - 393, with one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We return to the review of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Law on Measurements. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3249-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the VAT Act and the Law on Measurements, print no. 3249-A. A request for the recommendation of nine amendments to this second reading project was sent to the finance committee. The Commission welcomes six of these amendments. Corrections 2, 3 and 4. The Public Finance Commission does not support it. I would like to say that the controversy mainly concerned the fact of subsidising the purchase of new cash registers, which will work as online cash registers. The subsidy for the purchase of these cash registers for entrepreneurs was maintained at the level proposed in the government submission, i.e. 700 PLN and not more than 90% the purchase of this equipment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u189	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's 3249. We are voting first on the amendments set out in the additional report. Amendments 1 to 7 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on VAT on goods and services. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 106h. 2. The Commission, I remind you, is asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 400, against - 7, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the common part in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 3 and 4. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 176, against - 229, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the common part in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendment 4. The question is asked by Mr Genowef Tokarska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u190	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is generally a good law because it seals the tax system. If not yet, that the government almost all the costs it wants to pass on to entrepreneurs, because not only buying cash is a cost, but it is also efficient internet links and transmission costs, as well as regular technical reviews by the relevant service. Therefore, we propose that this one-time help increase a little bit. We're saving 90%. net price values, but the maximum amount is PLN 1500, not PLN 700. No money of this kind costs 800 or 900 PLN. That is why we are proposing that we really go to the entrepreneurs this time. And once again, the money is being exchanged. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u191	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 182, against - 228, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the common part in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. For - 176, against - 220, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose among others. add Article. 111b. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 386, against - 11, the 13. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 2 128. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 410, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of point 2 of Article. 145a paragraph. 7. Amendment 8 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 7 and 8, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For -394, against -1 stopped 12. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose an editorial and legislative change. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 405, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. There are questions in front of the whole thing. Mr Paulin Henning-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is another reform of the tax system, which the PiS government introduces for the money of Polish entrepreneurs. By introducing an obligation to have electronic fiscal cash registers, you pay only part of the costs to businesses. It was supposed to be 90%. , will most likely be 50% , in an optimistic version. And so if a beauty maker or a hairdresser just bought a whole new cash register, next year she's gonna have to buy it again, Mr. President. 1,500 zlotys, that's what it costs. These are the hard-earned money of self-employed people caring for their income. PiS cannot treat Polish entrepreneurs and people who work hard on their own, created by them as banks without bottoms. That is why we will abstain from voting on this bill. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Terrible.]] [[Good show for this morning.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u193	The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Konwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is one of the laws to seal the VAT system. Very often, the state, clearing the previous years, 8 years of the Civic Platform's government, is accusing us that we have introduced some sealing solutions for a very long time, because the work on this solution lasted, for example, for a year and a half. It took nearly 2 years to work on this solution. The Act was to enter into force on 1 October 2018, later amended the date of 1 March 2019, now we are 1 May 2019. These are concrete losses for the state budget, several hundred million zlotys because it will not enter at this originally foreseen date. In fact, these notices of yours to the D.A.'s office, these accusations of yours are going to be ready. In a few months, all you have to do is paste and paste your names. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u195	That wasn't a question. Mr Grzegorz Długi has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are probably introducing the necessary provisions to seal another element of the market, but I would like us all to know: we are doing this not for the money of the Treasury, which will benefit from it, but for the money of the entrepreneurs. In the first year, additional revenues should be - the Minister will probably agree - about a billion zlotys, and the cost of introducing about 200 million, which is borne entirely by entrepreneurs, because I am afraid... And that is the question: Is there any mechanism that will secure a small reimbursement of the costs of acquiring cash registers, return to entrepreneurs, i.e. 700 zł, was not thus eaten by those who provide cash registers, whose price will increase accordingly and consequently entrepreneurs will not even feel this 700-gold relief. That is why we wanted this and supported the Platform's proposal to make it a percentage, so that this return would be 90% of the cost, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not a stiff price. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u197	Thank you. Deputy Minister of Finance Filip Świtała. Would you like to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to Members' questions, I would like to explain that in the legislation we have foreseen 700 PLN of return for entrepreneurs. This is not entirely a refund for the purchase of new money, but - I refer to Mr Długi's question - there is a mechanism in the bill which empowers the Minister of Finance to issue a regulation if it turns out that it is necessary to do so, to increase this amount. I would also like to say that the time taken to proceed with this law is justified by the fact that it required arrangements with both the authority of measurement and with the producers of cash registers. It's not like you can do that. simply produce a certain amount of cash needed to perform this task. Therefore, this process cannot proceed super quickly. And that's how we did it, in my opinion, very well. So it seems to me that these suggestions that it lasted too long are not justified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u199	We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, from print 3249 with amendments, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 376, against - 6, 24 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on a government bill amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Law on Measurements. We are returning to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and some other laws. This is print number 3293-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, the Committee on Public Finance has examined two amendments tabled during the second reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the exchange of tax information among others countries and some other laws, print No 3293. Following the government's information on these amendments, the committee rejected both amendments. Already after the vote, the second amendment was withdrawn by the applicants. I recommend, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, the adoption of this important law for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u201	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's 3293. We are voting first on the amendments that were tabled by the committee in an additional report. And I confirm whether I remind you that Amendment 2 has been withdrawn by the applicants. In the first amendment to Article. 6 the draft law amending the applicant proposes a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission, I remind you, requests that it be rejected. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Zofia Czernow. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The important question is: Can the Sejm adopt unenforceable rules? [[Applause]] The rule of law is that no one can be obliged to do the impossible and in Article. 6 of this project is this situation. It is not possible for financial institutions to send over 6 million clients of calls by 30 June this year. There is no law, and at the moment these entities are not allowed to make any decisions. This is not feasible. Customers are called to make statements about the tax residence. Our amendment extends this deadline and gives the chance to ensure that the law is implemented correctly. I'm asking you to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u203	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The extension of this deadline by at least a quarter, and preferably by the end of the year, for financial institutions to send a request to their clients - let me remind you: 6 million customers - is necessary. Even the Minister at the committee meeting admitted that this should be done, because this law is being implemented with quite a delay and no financial institution will be able to comply with these requirements. Therefore, instead of returning with this Senate law, accept this good opposition amendment prepared by Mrs Czernow. Really, Mr President, nothing will happen if you bend to the opposition arguments again today and support our good solutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u205	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that the committee requests that the amendment be rejected. Nobody wants to speak? The minister wants one? [[Voice from the room: No...]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are making an amendment and you do not want the Minister to... [[He wants to, he wants to.]] You're asking a question, and you don't want the minister to... [[Voice from the room: We want, we want.]] Minister Filip Świtała. There you go. [[Minister, come on!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u206	Thank you, guys. Excuse me. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions. I explained this for a long time, substantively during the committee meeting. I have presented you with rational arguments that support our position. We have a plan to do it the right way. You know that. I have explained this to you and I completely do not understand why you do not want to accept these rational arguments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u207	Well, that's the answer. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, actually the only one, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. For - 180, against - 215, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question, Mr Grzegorz Długi asks. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I admit that during the committee's work, the atmosphere of the conversation was good. The Minister, so to speak, explained to us the government's position. That doesn't mean that this government position is acceptable. These are two completely different things. [[Of course.]] I'm the last person who wants to support the banks and cry over their hard fate that they're going to have to fill out so much paperwork. But I'm crying over the fate of bank clients, because it's going to be the result that banks are going to call on customers to fill in, to provide information, and we're all -- I'm also a bank client -- we're going to have to fill in, we're going to have to provide different information, because banks are going to have to speed up a lot of information. Really, this deadline could have been longer and a big problem for us is to accept this law for precisely this reason, and I do not guarantee that all my colleagues and colleagues will support this law, precisely for this reason. Not because we oppose the exchange of information. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u209	Thank you. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 3293, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. In -383, against -8, 10 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Parliamentary draft law amending the law on the circles of rural hostess. The additional report shall be in print No 3278-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Richard Bartosik to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u210	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Today, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has been working on a parliamentary bill amending the law on the circles of rural hostess. The Commission proposes to reject the proposal to reject the law in its entirety and to accept the amendments tabled in committee. High Izbo! A good bill, which is very much needed for rural hostels' circles, is supplemented by the demands made by the rural environments. I'm asking you to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u211	Thank you very much. Let me remind you, it's 3278. The Commission presents minority proposals as well as a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and an amendment. We are voting first on the motion to reject the bill in its entirety. I would remind you that with regard to the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, the committee asks that it be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question will be asked by Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, on behalf of Polish judges, I would like to thank Members involved in the work of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for their fight against these unnecessary, harmful rules on VAT rates for the Polish fruit industry. [[Applause]] We were able to defend it, and thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank, of course, the decision-making centres in PiS, including Mr Marshal, for their vigilance, although whispered in the ear, and to ask that similarly in this case - on the issue of harmful Polish farmers' organization, especially rural hostels, dividing the circles of rural hostels for better, worse, better PiS-owskie, worse, i.e. those which have functioned so far, often for 150 years - present a proposal for a break, convening the Convention of Seniors and withdrawing this project. Because it does not help the Circles of rural hostesses, it divides, differentiates these very important for the Polish village organization. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u213	I understand that this is an appeal from the Member because I have not heard that this is a formal conclusion. [[Motion to the president.]] [[It's an appeal not to give the village housewives their money.]] So, Mrs Agnieszka, go after her.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Circles of rural hostels are more than 150 years of tradition and above all the self-organization of villages. No politics, ladies and gentlemen. The state should support the circles of rural hostesses and should support their activities, as they often carry out tasks for the country. And it's a good thing that you're spending money, but the question is, why just for some people? This is how you're gonna break up the country housewives' circles. Why do you not want them to remain part of the non-governmental society, civil society, as is included in the project previously submitted by the Kukiz Club15, but you want them to become a proper extension of the government agency? That's what ARMIR is like. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u215	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have to say that when I listened to the debate yesterday, it almost took my speech away because I heard that the PiS wanted to root the circles of country housewives in the country. Do you hear yourselves? What nonsense are you saying to justify this law that divides the Polish village? Do you hear that? [[All we have to do is listen to you.]] You want to root 150 years of tradition. It is about 150 years, during which the circles of rural hostesses rooted Polish tradition in the Polish village, 150 years when they cultivated Polish culture. And now you recognize that these 150 years aren't important at all, just set up your wheels and root them. A really, worse project for the Polish village with a candle to look for. But you can show today that you respect the Polish village, respect the circles of the country's hostess. You can vote against this bill. Then we'll sit down, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will prepare together a good project that will respect 150 years of tradition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u217	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u218	The question is: Do you respect the Polish village and do you respect the circles of the country housewives? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u219	Thank you, sir. Mr Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the fall. r. you have adopted the law on the wheels of rural hostesses. We voted for it, even though it was proceded during a local government campaign. You wanted to give away $90 million during the campaign. It didn't work. You've just spent over $16 million because it's only about $5,000. The housewife's wheels went to the president of the agency. So it didn't work out, so this time, during the European Parliament elections, you want to give away another 40 million, but there may be a problem with that too, so you've prepared over 1.5 million for a special proxy to activate the entrepreneurship circles of rural hostels that have been operating for almost 160 years. We can't accept that. The question is, before the next campaign, this autumn, will you again add money to make sure that the rural hostels who go to the president receive it, or will you continue to differentiate them for the better and worse, those who go to the president, or those who do not go to the president? Ask the circles of the country hostess what they say, because today they say: Enough. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u221	The Deputy Minister of Development, Mr Andżelik Możjanowska, asks for the floor. Please. [[PiS lied, lied, and lied.]] [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u222	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! High Parliament! [[PiS lied, lied, and lied.]] I understand that some people regret the fact that this law is good for social organisations in rural areas... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...we've only been processing for a certain period of time. Maybe I'll remind everyone who doesn't know the provisions of this bill that... [[PiS lied, lied, and lied.]] Mr. Marshal! It is very difficult for me to explain to people who do not know the provisions of this law. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, do not shout and make it difficult for the Minister to speak. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Andżelik Możjanowska: Ladies and gentlemen! What gives this law to the circles of rural hostess who have been social organizations for 150 years, which are really valuable, create local, cultural, folklore identity, build civil society and really combine tradition with modernity? These are the circles of rural hostesses which, before the entry into force of this law, had to share their membership contributions, had to share their income, had to give up 1/3 of those funds to the organizations that were patronising them. Many times they had to be held hostage by local authorities. [[Applause]] [[He's lying like a PiS.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What did this bill introduce? First of all, simple legal personality. Each Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture shall be seconded by a representative. Rural hostels' circles. He's not an incident person, he's one who supports, who registers, who advises you in the process of raising funds. Simple legal personality allows these ladies, economic and exceptional women, to raise funds from local governments, local authorities, district authorities, marshal offices. [[The voice from the hall: But it's dusty, but it's dusty.]] Each harvest can simply be financed by local government funds. [[Applause]] [[He lied, he lied, he'd lie.]] Any organization of celebrations will be able to be financed. In addition, system support. Well, no one has ever appreciated the hard work of economic and exceptional women in rural areas. [[Applause]] Now they have received from 3,000. Up to 5,000. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You can tell yourselves it's not much, but it's 16 working days... [[The voice from the hall: He lies and he will lie.]] ... 16 million PLN, 8 thousand PLN Circles of country housewives today... [[Voice from the room: The last eight years.]] ... 130,000. economic and exceptional women. And you punks insult them? I'm never gonna let that happen. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Okay!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Simple legal personality, the possibility of using these funds, but also European funds. 2 days ago, the Ministry of Investment and Development announced another competition together on European funds. And we were finally able to extend this support to the country housewives' circles. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: He lies and will lie.]] The Ministry of Culture - thank you, Minister - small FIO, economic and exceptional women have already benefited. Ministry of Digitalization - training, free program. Ministry of Health - pro-health prevention. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Do we have more opportunities to achieve health-promoting prevention than with those 150,000? Women in our little homelands? Where there is near rural hostels, there is our little Poland, there is everyday patriotism. I'll defend it. This is the first pillar, the legal personality. [[You'll be defending for 1.5 million.]] Listen to me, because the Ministry of Finance has never prepared such solutions. Possibility to conduct business within the framework of the regulation, i.e. folklore, culinary activities, precisely this statutory activity, without the fiscal cash register. All revenue achieved, developed by the rural housewives' circles, is exempt from income tax. VAT exemption - up to 200 000 zł. Care of the representative in every office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, Ministry of Investment and Development. Entrepreneurship support. CIT exemption for 2018. Exemption in case of electronic signature. Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of this law, we listened to the voices of all the associations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We met with 5,000. economical, exceptional women throughout Poland during regional consultations. It was a real regional consultation. We heard the voice of nonprofit associations and volunteer firefighters. Extension in the case of CIT-8 until October 2019 and free of charge the possibility of using an electronic signature. We're listening to the people we're seeing. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] Moreover, this enlargement, this today's amendment, is a guarantee of what we promised that support in every budget would be systemic. That's 16 million that have flown to our little homelands. In Wielkopolska there are 3 million PLN, in Małopolska there are 2.5 million PLN, in Lublin - 2.8 PLN. Million. Ladies and gentlemen, is this an act against the local community or in the interest of the local community? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Against!]] We respond to the demands of local government officials, to your interpellations that came to us in connection with the circles of rural hostesses. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] [[There's a backlog of answers.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was these circles of rural hostess who worked, who acted in terms of tradition and culture, over the years, that could not benefit from the benefits of this law. We're expanding it in these cities where there are settlements. It's about cities of up to 5,000, where there's this designation line where women can use the RDP. These are the municipalities, for example. in December they were rural municipalities and acquired urban rights, such as the municipality of Pacanów. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's the way out. Against expectations, not blocking. No PIT/0 is true because ladies have the opportunity to act as legal persons, legal persons. If anything, it's a CIT duty. What are the differences? Why did we create a simple legal personality? I think this needs to be clarified clearly and precisely. What's the status? [[Applause]] An ordinary association in old age, which did not give the opportunity to engage in activities for economic and exceptional women. They could not obtain any systemic support and apply for EU funds. The second personality was the KRS. Are the ladies from the country housekeeping circles supposed to be accountants? It's never gonna be okay. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] These are the personalities that fight for our little homeland, they build civil society, and we have a duty to help them in these pro-entrepreneurial initiatives. In the next perspective, EU economic and exceptional women will be able to benefit fully from EU funding. Thank you very much. I'll explain any doubts. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[PiS lied, lied, and lied!]] [[You feel sorry for her, don't you?]] Thank you, Minister. I would like to address your Members who will shout. Some of them have to be told by name that they are in violation of the article. 175 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. It is about Mr Szłapka, Mrs Pomaska and Mrs Lydia Gądek. I'll name others when you yell. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There were 391 Members voted. For - 159, against - 224, hold down 8. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Minority proposals 1 and 2 and amendments 1 to 4 have been tabled in Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. In the first amendment to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1a applicants propose an amendment to the calculation. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the narrative in the case of this law is the grasping of a razor. You want to root in the village 150 years of tradition. Indeed, in the contemporary world of bigger jokes in no parliament have they heard. This narrative of yours can only be defined in one way: PiS lied, lied and will lie. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u225	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention under Article. 175 for obscene statements related to insinuations towards a group of Members. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is a quote from Minister PiS.]] I'm following you because next time, I'm gonna impose a penalty on you. Mr Dorota Sunday. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u226	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister for Investment and Development speaks very, very nicely, but we know exactly why he talks so much and nicely. Is it true, Minister, that in the Circle Act, the amendment to the Circles of Rural Housewives Act stated that one and a half percent of the 40 million... [[Voices from the room: One and a half!]] Or one and a half or a half, that's 1,600 grand. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]] 1,600 thousand. PLN was written, 4% of the 40 million was written in the bill and was intended to serve Minister Możjanowska to campaign in the field. [[Touchdown, applause]] The Minister has placed herself in the task of promoting the circles of rural hostesses. For God's sake! [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] 160 years of tradition and Minister Możjanowska will promote the village circles of country housewives? [[Voice from the Chamber: Because he runs for Europarliament.]] Will she want to win? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Euro-elections for the money of the rural housewives' circles? [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Mrs Niedziela, but also others of you. Firstly, as regards the amendment to which questions should be asked, these questions did not concern the 1st amendment and were not questions. [[Is it true that? It's dead.]] If you want me to allow questions, ask questions for a specific amendment in the form of a question... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But there was information.]] ...not in the form of debate or discussion, because there is no room for discussion at the moment. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Is it true that? You're the marshal's teacher.]] I therefore draw Mrs Niedziela's attention to the fact that you have exceeded certain rules of procedure here. [[But it hurts that money goes to people, but it hurts.]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 383 Members voted. For -374, against -6, holding down 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1a applicants shall propose the new wording of point 2. The question is asked by Mirosław Maliszewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am astonished and admired by the enthusiasm and dynamics of the expression of Minister Możjanowska in the fight for the circles of rural hostesses. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I just regret that I did not see such enthusiasm, dynamics and such concern in the previous period when you were Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's office. [[Applause]] Back then, the village housewife's wheels weren't in your circle of interest. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Ooh... it hurts. It hurts.]] I think that if the Minister found out that two days ago, or yesterday, we took off financing your business with an amendment from this bill and you didn't get those 1600 thousand, that expression and dynamics would probably be completely different.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u229	Mr President, ask a question to the first minority proposal. [[Don't review.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u230	The question is about the request of a minority, which should actually be the request of the majority, because in it we propose that the circles of rural hostess be established where there are actually rural hostesses, where agricultural activities exist, and these are not just rural areas. Why do you - I am addressing the applicant - do you not want to support this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] a good minority proposal enabling the association of rural women? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u231	Thank you, sir. Mr Lydia Gądek has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have just heard a speech such as the election rally, which had absolutely nothing to do with the circles of rural hostesses and their situation in the countryside. I can say it because I've been a member of the country housewives' wheel for 20 years... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...more than that, I've made dozens of circles of country housewives in the county...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u233	Madam, please ask the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u234	And now...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u235	...on the first minority request. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not interrupt.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u236	Mr. Marshal! You've taken my time. It was an introduction to the question. The question concerns this minority request. Why do you once again, regardless of the 150 years of history that you now want to root over again, differentiate the circles of the country's hostess? 150 years ago, there were a series of rural hostels in the areas that were now incorporated into the cities in normal mode. We're growing, there's agglomerations. They exist there, and you throw them completely out of parentheses. Why? You don't understand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish village, you don't understand associations that in this... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u237	Thank you, Member. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska has the floor. Let me remind you that the minority proposal is to add to the article: cities to 20,000. residents. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And that's what I asked you, marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: The Marshal doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u238	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The truth is that PiS treats the state budget as the budget of its own campaign, and here we have an excellent example. You wanted $1,600 million... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ... 1,600 thousand. You don't even want to sit down with them. But the worst part is, if you listened to the Minister, you'd at least think that the Minister in the previous...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u239	Madam, please ask a question about the first... [[But that's something to understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u240	... sat in opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u241	I would like to draw your attention to Paulina Hennig-Voice... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Do not intimidate Members, Mr Marshal.]] ...that in accordance with Article. You're in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Game in the O.R.]] I will then speak to each of you about the violation of the seriousness of the Sejm. [[The marshaling will be over soon.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No, Mr Marshal... The campaign is complete.]] So be careful, be careful. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Campaign in full. This is an attempt to intimidate Members.]] I ask you, Members, that you do not... [[Game in the O.R.]] Please don't disturb me now. [[Voice from the room: With corrigendum...]] I ask you, Members, not to shout... [[Voice from the room: No, no. Formal conclusion.]] ...because I'm gonna think that yelling that kind of thing, that kind of thing, is obstructing... [[But don't scare us, we're adults.]] ...or at least an attempt to hinder the conduct of the Sejm. [[We're gonna run out of marshals.]] [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Formal conclusion.]] We're voting. Which one of you... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Member, please sit down, because I will have to say that I will have to introduce the rules of procedure for you. Have a seat. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: For what?]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But a formal conclusion.]] Please take the seat indicated by the Marshal of the Sejm, so where you are sitting, in the seats of the Sejm. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are afraid of questions about Podkarpat.]] [[Mr. Marshal, it's pathetic.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: A typical example of PiS culture.]] We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 383 Members voted. For - 162, against - 218, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 2. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 376 Members voted. For - 367, 1 against, 8 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second minority application, applicants propose not to add Article. 25a. The question is asked by Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u242	Art. 25a concerns the representative of the government for small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm thinking what his role in promoting the country housewives' circles might be. Why should the minister of regional development, why should the spokesman under his command, perform such a function? There is the Minister of Agriculture, there is the Minister of Family and Social Policy, there is the Minister of Culture, there is the Prime Minister - these are the institutions and bodies that should actually promote the circles of rural hostess, because that is their task. What does small and medium-sized entrepreneurship have to do with this? That's not the job of the country housewives' circles. The task of the rural hostels is to integrate the environment, cultural and educational activities. This is a task for the village housewives' circles. There is no way that a spokesperson would perform such a function. Therefore, we propose to delete this provision from the bill, so that it is not the spokesman who promotes the circles of rural hostesses, but someone completely different. And today, including some of the programs of the "Agrobiznes" type, I have the impression that it is not the spokesperson who promotes the circles of the country housewives, but the circles of the country housewives who promote the spokesperson, which is often an example of your dancing spokesperson in the circles of the country housewives, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shown on public television. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u243	The question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u244	The club would suit you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, that's the proxy we're proposing to delete in that minority proposal. I hope that it will, will become a majority proposal, although the majority in this room unfortunately has no idea how the rural hostel circles work, and that is very sad. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my...]] And that's what it's like when people who think they know something are making laws. Then that's the result. The rural hostels' circles promote themselves perfectly, promote local self-governments. And the nonsense is what we have just heard from this speaker, that they will only now be able to raise funds from the European Union, from local governments, from other resort activities. They've been doing this for at least 50 years. [[Applause]] For 30 years, it's actually a big scale. And now, today, instead of subjugating it to local governments, you are proposing to subjugate it to one single party. What happens when the party changes? You thought... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u245	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u246	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you straight away: Why are you instrumentally treating rural housewives' circles and politicising them, most normally in the world, making them dependent on the finances they can get or not depending on whether they comply with your requirements or not? And to your marshal, I have a request not to intimidate Members of the opposition because these fears don't work for us. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u247	Madam President, this is the first time I have heard that a Member is so scared. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We're voting. [[Voice from the room: Maybe it isn't.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You do not understand what is said to you.]] Who among you is in favour of the second minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 380 Members voted. For-- 159, against-- 217, holding off on four. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose among others. add Article. 27a-27d. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The questions are asked by Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform Club. [[Countrykeeper.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment, which you made during the additional committee meeting, at second reading, is, my dears, incompatible with the constitution. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] It goes beyond the statutory application that you submitted to the marshal's staff. This amendment must not be voted on yes, it perverts the entire bill. You want, without agreement, because it's very important, without even agreeing with the KRS, your KRS, to get past the KRS and to put an amendment against the constitution into this bill. That is why I ask the question, Mr. Marshal: Why are you breaking the constitution again, as always? [[Applause]] [[Oh, my gosh, he's so brave.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u249	The Constitutional Tribunal is from taking decisions, assessing whether the Constitution is being violated. [[But you weren't asked.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: There is no such thing.]] Maybe you think it's like this. Then we shall proceed to the vote. The Sejm will decide. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 4 and 5, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 376 Members voted. For-- 223, against-- 148, holding off on five. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 3 draft law. The question is asked by Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u250	On our allegations that you are making the country, the PiS, your tool of political influence, that you distinguish, you divide the circles of the country's hostess into those who are subject to political supervision, and on the worse ones that, despite the impossibility of being co-financed by such supervision, do not give up, you answer that it is not true that there is no policy here. About our argument that you're directing 1,600 grand. For the promotion of the European campaign for the Ombudsman, for the election, you said it wasn't true. This amendment, this minority proposal, will allow you to consummate this theory of yours. This proposal shifts the entry into force of this law to 1 July 2019, i.e. the period after the European elections, after these most intense political actions. If your intentions are true, vote and support this minority motion. And the question is, will this reflection reach you, or will you still be from the circles of country hostess making your tool of political influence? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u251	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the third minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 374 Members voted. For - 154, against - 213, 7 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the whole question, Mirosław Maliszewski raises the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u252	First of all, you're dividing the village housewives' circles for better and worse. The Circles of rural hostels in Poland are over 150 years old. These are the oldest wheels operating today on the basis of the law on socio-professional farmers' organisations. In recent years, the activity of rural women has been very intense. They set up circles for rural hostesses based on the Law on Associations. Both were supported by local authorities. You've come up with a formula that, by, you don't know why, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, and especially by the president of this agency, distribute funds, i.e. for your own and for the unsympathetic, for the unsympathetic. This bill has flaws, for example. This law has flaws because not everywhere where women are active, you can establish circles of rural hostesses. This law has flaws in the fact that it imposes too much responsibility on these wheels in relation to their capabilities. And thirdly, most importantly, this spokesperson is ridiculous. It shouldn't be that way to use public money... [[Voice from the room: Don't insult me.]] ...to the election campaign. [[Voice from the room: Don't insult women.]] I wanted to end it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to say that for these reasons our club cannot support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u253	Thank you, sir. Mr Dunin has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! During the second reading, I think all opposition groups have made it clear to you that this bill is wrong, it is another legal bubble. This law has not been discussed with stakeholders, i.e. the circles of rural hostesses. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The ones you used to wear. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, listen up, women: this bill is prepared only to buy you and drag you to the PiS. This bill has nothing to do with your improvement. You'll get one if you're on your knees with the president of the agency. Ladies and gentlemen, this law - apart from the fact that today by the amendment voted by the PiS it becomes unconstitutional - divides women into villages. Ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I appeal to you: vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u255	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u256	That's why the Civic Platform... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...will not allow... and will vote against this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u257	Mr Ewa Lieder has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u258	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! It has already been said here today why this bill is evil, unreasonable, foolish, without consulting and dividing women in the countryside. But the curiasal statement by the rapporteur, who spoke about the rooting of the rural hostels' circles in the country, is really, ladies and gentlemen... And now the question will be that the Marshal should have no objection. Is it true that this law is pouring roundup on the 150-year-old roots of the village housewives' circles [[Applause]] And you destroy those 150-year-old roots of the village housewives' circles? Women are looking at it. This is an attack, another attack on the Polish village, on a beautiful Polish village. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u259	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a villager, on the one hand, and on the other hand... [[Voice from the hall: Rural and urban.]] ... attached to Catholic social science and the principle of subsidiarity, not to the state of every bottom-up structure, I would like to say that the circles of rural hostess are developing perfectly. Moreover, already at the moment, the wheels of the town housewives are being built, e.g. Świeradów-Zdrój. Yes, the wheels of the city housewives also arise, by themselves, without State interference. And today you're state-owned, you're trying to get country circles of country housewives under state control. In the country where the service lies, the modernisation of the army lies, the judiciary lies, Mrs Mosbacher is responsible for the whole foreign policy, not the minister of this government - the state deals with state and populist social transfers. This is state after 3.5 years. Imposibilism in its entirety as regards the real tasks of the state and dealing exclusively with populist electoral activities. Total embarrassment. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u261	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a way of asking questions, not making statements. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Bartosik, asks for the floor. [[If it's asking questions, why isn't anyone answering?]] Mr Bartosik, so listen to him because he responds as rapporteur for the committee. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u262	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I would first like to appeal to PSL Members. Ladies and gentlemen, do not act against the rural hostels' circles. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It's your last words, your latest decisions that make PSL activists down there need psychological help. [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] They can't understand you. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, what is this?]] High Izbo! This bill [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It was because the hostess' circles fought for this bill, this law demanded for many years. [[Who?]] Law and Justice has introduced this law and gives full effect to the village hostels' collectives... [[You put them all on.]] ...all the houses of the country... [[No, I didn't, not all of them.]] ...because I would like to repeat that every wheel of housewives, which works 10 years, 20 years, that which arose today, can come forward and benefit from the benefits of this bill. And that's why she was born. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to refer to the amount of 1.5 million or 1600 thousand. It was the Law and Justice that withdrew this project while imposing additional obligations on the government's representative for small and medium-sized enterprises. These responsibilities are designed to support the rural housewives' circles to promote entrepreneurship in order to help the rural housewives' circles. Ladies and gentlemen! Not more than two days ago, because three days ago, Monday, I was at a meeting of the country housewives' circles... [[Ha, ha, ha! 3 days is more than 2.]] ...in a Turkish district organized by an old lady. There were circles of country housewives that have been operating for several years and which have arisen now. All of us are enthusiastic about our solutions. And it's a good thing that these solutions are. I'm surprised you guys-- or maybe that's why-- [[In short, farmers love you.]] ...you feel guilty today - you haven't made, you haven't passed such a bill before. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And who threw away apples?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u263	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No. 3278, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 361 Members voted. For - 215, against - 137, the 9. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. [[Applause]] And the debate and the vote were listened to and watched by local government officials from Brzezina, Godiesze and Szczytniki communes. Welcome. [[Applause]] I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 29 hours 13 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question may not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer may not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. An additional question may not last more than 1 minute. The supplementary response may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question, formulated by Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska and Cezary Grabarczyk, on security in military aviation, the absence of reports and follow-up recommendations on the black series of air accidents in the last 15 months, is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. Please, Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Within 15 months, there have been several accidents of MiG-29 aircraft: one fatal accident, one MiG-29 fire at Malbork airport and at least two cases of hermeticisation of cabins. In addition, three helicopter accidents took place between mid-2017 and mid-2018. So I have three questions. First of all, how the Minister thinks, how they feel and how they feel on MiG-29 planes pilots who fly them all the time without knowing what happened during these accidents, including what caused one fatal accident? To this day we do not have a report of those accidents, and since we do not have a report, we also have no recommendations on what situations these pilots should avoid so as to fly safely. Question two. Not more than two days ago, there was a nomination for Colonel General, who is the head of the MON Security Officer, Mr. Robert Tierak. I wanted to ask you if the fact that these reports are missing is the reason for your appointment as a general. Question three. We talked about MiG-29 aircraft, but there is still the issue of F-16 aircraft. I would like to ask you what the technical condition of these aircraft is and how many F-16 engines are currently waiting to be repaired. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u265	Please, Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm gonna start by bringing up a few points of order. If you are looking for information on F-16 aircraft, please submit such a question. Then we will be happy to answer, because now this question goes beyond the matter of the questions that you put to the marshal's staff three days ago, which is directly to the marshal. Second thing. As far as General Cierrak is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I have really called on many times and I repeat this once again: we can argue in such an acute political dispute, but I very much ask you, and especially Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska, not to involve in this political dispute experienced, proven officers who faithfully serve the Republic. Once again, Commissioner, I repeat my hot request for this. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last 15 months, the Polish Aviation Accidents Investigation Commission continues to conduct 12 safety investigations, including 5 of 2017, 5 of 2018 and 2 of 2019. In 2018, the committee completed a study of 19 events, including 7 of 2018 and 12 of 2016 and continued a study of 15 events. In 2019 the committee completed a study of 5 events. About 2 of the above. events, these have taken place in the aviation of public policy services, i.e. the police, the Border Guard. As part of its statutory activities in 2018 alone, as a result of the work carried out by the committee on 19 aviation events, the committee issued 84 preventive recommendations, including 51 final and 33 preliminary recommendations for various types of organizational units of the Ministry of National Defence. For events completed in 2019, the committee issued 23 preventive recommendations, including 7 final and 16 preliminary recommendations. In the case of events which have not yet been completed, the committee has so far issued 27 preliminary preventive recommendations. Since neither the Air Accident Investigation Commission nor the Air Safety Inspectorate carry out control activities, the preventive recommendations are valid for the post-flight safety recommendations. I inform you that safety investigation is a complex process and involves, among others. in cooperation with various specialist institutions, not only the Ministry of National Defence but also civil ones, in which they are carried out, among others. studies in the field of aerospace technology, aerospace medicine, phonoscopy, etc., which have a particular impact on the development of the final report after the event. It is precisely the expectation of such expert expertise that the length of the committee's research will be greatly extended. This is particularly the case for air accidents. In addition, cyclical meetings of the Working Group on Risk Management are organised as part of the implementation of tasks arising from the activities of the Flight Safety Supervisor. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! As early as 2013 risks related to the frequent occurrence of aviation accidents due to damage to parts and assemblies of all aircraft operated in military aviation of the Armed Forces were presented during the next extension of technical resuscitation due to the exhaustion of their durability resources. The problems reported concerned mainly MiG-29 and Su-22 aircraft and helicopters of the Russian construction. Such a risk is due to the possibility of errors in the airworthiness assessment of aircraft operated during the extended technical resuscitation period, which would make it impossible for users to determine their actual technical condition. In identifying such threats, the Inspector-General for Agriculture and Rural Development The safety of Flights was based on the following facts. The first is: more than 30% of the Russian aircraft fleet is operated during an extended technical resuscitation period with the prospect of their next extension for MiG-29 aircraft from 20 years of technical resuscitation given by the President up to 40 years of operation, for Su-22 aircraft from 20 years of technical resuscitation up to 30 years of operation respectively. I would also like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, so that this also sounds in this House as regards the question of Mrs Siemoniak, that this extension has been done not in the rule of law and justice, but at a time when the Minister of National Defence was Tomasz Siemoniak. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: What did Minister Błaszczak say in January?]] Proceed, ladies and gentlemen. Air events that occurred in the case of MiG-29 aircraft due to damage to parts and assemblies caused by the exhaustion of their durability resources or deterioration of the reliability indicators of on-board aircraft weapons systems MiG-29 and Su-22. Analysis of the value of the damage rate of on-board weapons systems in the case of the above mentioned. aircraft causing aviation events and the proportion of those damage causing failure to the flight task has shown that every other failure of these systems [[♪ The bell ♪]] caused an aviation event and one third of the damage resulted in failure of the task. Similarly, data analysis...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u267	Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Maybe I'll finish the second part, if you don't mind. The Minister will, of course, still have time. Now, please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are asking about these three specific crashes of MiG-29 planes and we do not receive an answer. We want flights in Polish space to be safe, flights performed by professional soldiers. In this case also the experience and practice of Polish pilots are important. A professional soldier receives a special allowance - that is to say, a remuneration component - if he performs flights of no less than 30 hours on a supersonic plane and 40 hours on another military aircraft during a calendar year. This allowance amounts to over 2 000. monthly. It is received by pilots serving in headquarters and headquarters, i.e. in structures above air bases. And the D.N.O. wants to take that supplement away from those pilots. It's about safety. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you want to make sure that pilots with the greatest experience do not have the opportunity to use this form of perpetuating experience, maintaining practice? It's an act bordering on sabotage. I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u269	Thank you very much. Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In your question, you pointed to events that have occurred in the last 15 months, so I answer. [[Three.]] At this point, when you're asking me in detail... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: But three.]] In the last 15 months... In the first part of my speech, I presented all the indications that were implemented because that was the content of your question. As regards the incident of 18 December 2017, the MiG-29 aircraft crashed during the approach to landing, there was a collision of the aeroplane with the area before the runway threshold. Prophylaxis applied. In aircraft operating MiG-29: do not approach landing by instrument type..., conduct practical activities with flight simulator execution, organize and conduct content training for group flights in terms of group flights using a radio-location station, stop group flight training when using a radio-location station, check normative and substantive documents, etc., etc. These are the indications that were used in the procedures... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: But the report is? Is there a report, Minister?]] ...as far as the MiG-29 plane is concerned. As regards the incident of 5 July 2018, the MiG-29 plane crash, this was an aircraft accident involving the loss of fuel during the flight, which caused the two engines to be switched off, which caused the pilot to leave the aircraft. The course of the catapulting process did not provide the pilot with the possibility of survival. Prevention applied in this case: for all catapult seats of type K-36DM and K-36DMs. 2 Recognize flying personnel and engineering and aircraft services with the occurrence and preliminary findings of the aviation accident investigation committee, withdraw the operation of the ring which was performed in WZL No.2 SA, withdraw the operation... [[Mr Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: corrected.]] ... TWU-1-ZD-0.5 pyrites. And these are the indications. You ask about the indications and they are implemented. [[And the report.]] As far as the final report is concerned, it will be presented as soon as the committee has completed the investigation of the air accident. In the first part of my speech, I pointed out that, due to the studies carried out, due to the speeches which the committee also submitted, the report is not yet prepared. Once it is prepared and signed, it will probably also be at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And the accessories? Extras, Minister. Pilots are waiting for that answer.]] [[We're waiting, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u271	Here you are, Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u272	Minister, I've been misunderstood by you. I asked about the report and the follow-up recommendations, which are the result of the audits carried out and the final report. We're at the beginning of the road all the time. How are pilots supposed to feel safe flying MiG-29 when they don't know what caused those events? As far as MiG-29 is concerned, in January Minister Błaszczak said that these are very safe aircraft and can fly quietly until 2030. So don't rely on the decisions from a few years ago. When we talk about accidents and helicopters, and MiG-29 planes, the longest preparation of a follow-up report takes longer than explaining the Smolensk disaster. Well, Minister, we'd like to know when the reports will be. Maybe they are, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You just don't want to show them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u273	Thank you. Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u274	Thank you very much, Marshal. Madam President, it is about listening with understanding. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: I listen with understanding.]] The committee's work is not finished. The final report has not yet been prepared, it is in preparation. Up to the moment of the last requested expertise, he will be ready. It is difficult to discuss something if it is not prepared and it is not published. That's one thing. Secondly, I have also drawn your attention to the fact that, in the event of any air accident, recommendations are prepared first and foremost, which are made to the relevant services and soldiers to be implemented. Such recommendations, as I have pointed out to you, with regard to these last two or three accidents, are in the process of being implemented today, ladies and gentlemen. The final report will take these results... [[The committee's results.]] ...which will also be submitted to the committee by experts, not only military but also civilian. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: I understand everything, only when, Minister?]] Madam President, if we are talking about these cases, I really think that this is an area that certainly needs a fair explanation... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: But they're back to flying.]] ...not hurry, so that the soldiers feel safe... [[100 years, 100 years.]] ...and so that similar incidents and accidents do not occur in relation to... [[And the accessories?]] [[Mr Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Minister, but the planes are flying, they are back to flying.]] But the report, Commissioner, is not ready. When it's ready, it'll be published.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u275	Thank you very much. [[And the accessories?]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: We will not make any changes related to accessories so that I ask for peace.]] [[Well, you can't ask anybody to calm down, Minister, because you're being rude then.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Mr. Marshal, do I have to argue with Members?]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Get your shit together.]] [[Well, that's not very elegant.]] What is it, Member? In no mode, huh? Good. Let's move on to the next question. The question was formulated by Mr Jan Warrzecha, Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec and Mr Bogdan Rzońca, and this is a question about the anti-smog program "Clean air" in Podkarpacie and Poland, addressed to the Minister of the Environment. Please, Mr Jan Warecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u276	Dear Minister, Poles have waited a long time for a program that could significantly reduce CO2 emissions and, most importantly, eliminate harmful smog. The government of Mateusz Morawiecki met these expectations and wants to allocate huge funds, PLN 103 billion, in the perspective of 10 years. In the unfavorable government of the nationwide journal, the credibility of this program and its meaning are undermined. It states, among other things, that the European Commission does not intend to allocate EU money to replace old furnaces with new ones, i.e. those which use fossil fuels for heating, namely coal and gas, because this would allegedly conflict with the European Union's climate policy. Minister, please answer if this could actually cause some kind of perturbation in this form of support for the replacement of Cinderella kilns. Please show how the programme is implemented in Poland and Podkarpacie. Which regions are the most interested in the programme? How many proposals have been adopted in 2018 in a formal manner and how much this year and which forms of support have the greatest interest. [[They're happy.]] Are there breaks in the acceptance of applications, and if so, what is the cause of them? Are the IT systems for submitting applications efficient and expensive? Isn't the voivodship environmental fund missing specialists in the entities implementing this program? Are there any changes in the programme in the near future, e.g. Does the government, the national fund, the regional environmental fund intend to change the way in which the maximum subsidy is determined in respect of income in a given household? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u277	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister of Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! The government, of course, faced the problem of contaminated air and wanted to solve it by implementing a program called "Clean Air" with a huge financial scale. The programme is planned for 10 years and has been implemented since 19 September 2018. Here I answer the question in part. Last year, 18,000 applications were submitted. beneficiaries. As far as the press releases are concerned, the threat to the implementation of this programme, of course I do not confirm this information, although with regard to sources of funding, among other things. One of the expected sources of funding is European funds in a perspective relating to 2021. We are in constant dialogue with the European Commission. As far as the degree and conditions of funding for solid fuel boilers are concerned, of course, these negotiations are still ahead of us, and as far as the current state of the programme is concerned, the priorities are of course gas fuel boilers and electric heating, but where there is no other possibility - also solid fuel boilers. As far as the implementation of this programme is concerned, 36 thousand were due yesterday. proposals at national level, of which - here I will answer right away - on Podkarpacie it was 1900 applications. As far as signed agreements and decisions are concerned, on the scale of the signed agreements is 1909, and the decisions issued, which are approved by the resolutions of the voivodship board of funds - 4124. As far as Rzeszów is concerned - 123 contracts and 120 subsequent resolutions of the boards. The biggest interest in the programme, which is quite understandable, is in the Silesian Voivodeship - 4700 applications, the Małopolskie Voivodeship - 3600 and in Mazowsze - 3600; although this is because of its size in Mazowsze. After about 2500 applications he is in Wielkopolska and Pomeranian and Lublin voivodships. As I said, less than 2000 is in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. There were questions about breaks, whether they occurred. The programme is a continuous programme, i.e. a continuous recruitment of applications and a continuous examination of applications, the signing of contracts and the payment of grants. Grants have also been paid. However, there was a technical interruption in the first days of January, related to the implementation of the tax credit, which is one of the sources of funding for this scheme since January 2019. The implementation of this tax credit into the scheme, to the programme and to the IT programme supporting these applications resulted in a technical interruption, but probably on 18 January this recruitment was resumed and is now operational. Regional environmental funds are the operators of this programme, so they accept applications, examine them, issue decisions and sign contracts. After the implementation of all these changes, these works have now really started in full steam. It can be said that the voivodship funds have already fallen into the right rhythm, which means that almost 1900 contracts signed were signed this week, because previously there were also resolutions. Now it can be said that this cycle has become engulfed, so there is also processing requests, and taking resolutions, and signing contracts. I think that on average, it will be around 2000 and 3000 applications per week, so this pace will be appropriate and the proposals will be dealt with on an ongoing basis. As far as the amounts applied for or the types of applications are concerned, so far, as I said, more than 36 000 have been received. applications for PLN 770 million, of which 570 million - applications for grants and 200 million - applications for own contribution loans. The IT systems are, of course, functional and there are no congestions here. As regards the productivity of workers, in general, the voivodship environmental funds have been delegated to work on the operation of the "Clean Air" programme 20-40% of their own [[♪ The bell ♪]] employees, i.e. about 10 and 40 people are working on this programme, i.e. around 400 people are working on it on a national scale. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u279	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr Bogdan Rzonec.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! When the Law and Justice covered power at the end of 2015, it inherited a huge problem which the Court of Justice of the European Union pointed out to Poland. Namely for the years 2007 and 2015 - it is known who ruled at the time: Civic Platform and Polish People's Party - the European Commission has sued Poland for the notorious violation of EU air cleanliness standards. As Law and Justice, we are engaged in the elimination of this evil state of affairs. Indeed, the programme is excellent, comprehensive, long-term, aimed at civilians and will produce positive results, while, Minister, I wanted to ask how we deal with this problem which has been left to us by the Platform and the Polish People's Party. I have heard of huge penalties that could threaten Poland. Someone has to pay them. It must be made clear who caused such punishments to be possible, God forbid, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There may be a place where someone should be blamed for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u281	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u282	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen! In addition to this statement, I will say that in fact in the spring of this year, in April Poland was sentenced by the Court of Justice of the European Union for violating air purity standards as one of two countries. Such judgments were handed down against Poland and Bulgaria, although I would like to point out that in the European Union 16 countries have violated the standards of air cleanliness. So in the European Union, not everyone is treated equally and not everyone is given judgments - that is also worth noting here. On the other hand, after the publication of this ruling, Poland presented the programme - we had already prepared ourselves before, because it is not because of the judgment that we know that the air is contaminated and that we do not meet the standards, that we were aware of and that the programme was prepared - so after the announcement of this judgment at the end of May we presented a comprehensive programme - a comprehensive programme, I stress once again, because it allows to achieve many objectives, not only to protect air from pollution, from PM10, PM2,5 dust, but also to achieve energy efficiency - this is the second component related to reduced energy consumption for heating single-family houses, including subsidies for heating walls, replacement of windows, i.e. for deep thermomodernization of a single-family house. Thus, this comprehensiveness, energy efficiency, air protection and the presentation of this comprehensive programme have led the European Commission, despite the infringement decision, not to ask the European Court of Justice to impose financial penalties, and the natural order is always that, once the infringement has been found, there is a request for financial penalties. At this point in time, this program, you can say, we've shown and proved... and the program is highly praised as a model, shown. I also had the opportunity to present this programme during the meetings of the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Council of Environment Ministers, and it has great interest. All countries are looking at the implementation of this programme with great interest, with great appreciation. Thus, at the moment, there is no such request for penalties, which is actually if no one interrupts the implementation of this programme, this programme will be executed, then we will of course avoid financial penalties. It is important that this programme be implemented so that it is implemented consistently. It has been neglected for many years, for all the years anyway. This was not only pointed out by the Court, but also by the Supreme Audit Chamber in its report, it was clear that in 2007 and 2016 the actions were insufficient. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She also considered in the report, even in the last comment, that the exception was the year 2018, when the government actually took care of air protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u283	Thank you, Minister. We move to the next question, formulated by Mr Urszula Augustyn, Ms Katarzyna Mrzygłocka and Ms Walda Dzikowski, on wage negotiations with the professional unions of teachers. This is a question to the Minister of National Education. Please, Mrs Isabella Katarzyna Mrzygłock.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, as you rightly pointed out, the question was addressed to Mrs. Anna Zalewska, Minister of Education. Mrs. Anna Zalewska does not exist, apparently thinks that the situation in education is not as dramatic as it is. What's she like? Maybe that's my question. The situation, the atmosphere at the Polish school is very hot. Solidarity protests in Krakow, the Polish Teachers' Union is holding a referendum among teachers. Its results already show the determination of the environment to organize a strike. Parents and students experience exceptional stress - a double yearbook, an exam at risk. What's more? That is why we are asking for reliable information about the stage of wage negotiations. Who are you talking to? What's the deal? When will public opinion know the decisions and commitments made to teachers? Prime Minister Morawiecki talks about the state's excellent financial situation. When will teachers and educational workers feel this in their pockets?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u285	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzena Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u286	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We believe - we believe so, we ourselves are, and Minister Zalewska and I, teachers - that teachers are the professional group that does work of particular importance. Therefore, any wage regulation for this group should be shaped according to the status of the profession pursued. Therefore, strengthening the prestige of the teacher's profession, among others. by guaranteeing wages at an appropriate level corresponding to the specific social role of this profession, it is one of the priorities of government action in the field of education policy. And here it should be noted that the first actions that caused the first twitching of wages since 2012 were undertaken in 2017 - teachers' wages have been valorized. Since April 2018, a systematic implementation of the announced government plan to raise teachers' salaries started, raising them by 5,35%, later, as of 1 January 2019, a further 5% increase in teachers' salaries was introduced. , and as early as September 2019, teachers will receive another tranche of the increase. Within these 17 months, teachers will receive more than 16 percent wage increases. This makes more than 60% of teachers receive about PLN 508 more for the monthly basic salary. This will also translate into an increase in allowances and consequently an increase in the average salary of teachers. The basic salary of teachers with a Master's degree, with the preparation of pedagogical courses, will be increased by PLN 371 for the trainee's teacher, PLN 381 for the contract teacher, PLN 432 for the teacher appointed and PLN 508 for the trainee. As a result of the planned increases, the average salary will increase, and we know that the basic salary is one of the elements, because the teacher's salary shapes the basic salary and allowances. Therefore, the average salary will increase in the case of a trainee teacher by 444 PLN, in the case of a contract teacher by 493 PLN, in the case of a teacher appointed by 640 PLN, and in the case of a teacher qualified by 818 PLN. We know that this average does not apply to all teachers, because salaries, including allowances, are differentiated, e.g. Functional add-ons are included. But that's what an increase in average wages is like. I would also like to point out here that additional funds were provided for the 2017-2020 period to finance salary increases of more than PLN 6 billion, PLN 6.3 billion. In addition to the rapid increase in wages, we have now prepared a number of other changes, including. the extension of the entitlement to the allowance for distinguishing work for contract and appointed teachers. We propose that the allowance for outstanding work should be for the contract teacher 200 PLN, appointed - 400 PLN. The diplomat will receive an allowance of PLN 500. We want to introduce and introduce an additional benefit for trainees' teachers at start-up. Since September 2019, the trainee's teacher will receive this benefit twice during the internship period. Let me remind you that this is a $1,000 benefit. zł. From 1 September 2019 we will increase the number of hours at the Director's disposal in the framework teaching plans. We want to strengthen the funding of teachers' salaries for the pursuit of activities of developing interest and talent for pupils. Let me remind you that we have eliminated the card hours, while there are interpretation problems with extracurricular activities, hence these records here. The draft law amending the Teacher's Charter and certain other laws, containing provisions enabling these amendments to be introduced on 1 March 2019, was addressed to public agreements and consultations. We have done a preliminary calculation, a calculation of the wage demands offered by trade unions. The implementation of the postulate of the Polish Teachers Association is almost PLN 15 billion, the Trade Union Forum is about PLN 18 billion, NSZZ Solvency - PLN 6.5 billion. I would like to stress on behalf of Anna Zalewska that trade unions are important partners for talks with the Ministry of National Education and with the Government. Since the beginning of the Ministry's term of office, Minister Anna Zalewska has been in dialogue with trade unions. We have fulfilled most of the demands of the National Section for Education and Education of the NSZZ.Solidarity. In total, almost 200 meetings took place in different forms. In consultation of the draft regulation on minimum basic wage rates [[♪ The bell ♪]] talks took place between the Minister of National Education and representatives of the trade unions representing teachers' associations. What I'm saying is that these talks will continue. On 12 March a meeting took place with representatives of the NSZZ.Solidarity. The meeting was attended by Minister Anna Zalewska, Undersecretary of State Maciej Kopeć, from the NSZZ Mr Henryk Nakonneczny, member of the Bureau of the National Commission of the NSZZ (Solidarity) Social Dialogue and Negotiation, and President Richard Prox. We're still talking. We understand that these proposals and the assurance of growth do not satisfy teachers, but we hope that we will come to an agreement. I appeal to all Members, Members of Education, for some responsibility, because the scale of negligence in terms of teacher increases is great. We are not able to meet all the demands within a year, while there are increases, we are planning further increases in wages in the coming years, and we hope that the situation of teachers will improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u287	The next question will be asked by Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u288	Thank you very much. Minister! If it's so good, why is it so bad? You actually answered me just one question: you're having conversations with a trade union. I understand that the Polish Teachers' Union is not worth talking about. In the draft law amending the Teacher's Charter Act and some other laws in the article. The following entry is added: between 1 September 2019 and 31 December 2019 the average remuneration of teachers, determined as specified in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Act as amended by Art. 1, increases by 5%. Why is the question of increasing teachers' salaries regulated in the Teacher Charter Act rather than in the Around Budget Act? Why is the duration of the increased remuneration of teachers only until 31 December 2019? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In view of the increase in teachers' salaries since 1 September 2019, will local governments receive an increased education subsidy? You owe the local government more than PLN 700 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u289	Thank you, Member. You're welcome, Minister Marzena Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u290	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I answer as precisely as I can at such a limited time. First, I presented the scale of the raises. In fact, less than two years, that's over 16%. I said it was a lot of meetings. Of course, Minister Anna Zalewska also met with the Polish Teachers' Association, and the whole team of the Ministry of National Education met as part of the team on the status of teachers. It was fruitful, which doesn't mean it's easy to meet. I would also like to say that we have really implemented a lot of the demands of trade unions. We basically had to reverse the bad changes that were introduced in 2009, including. to strengthen pedagogical supervision of the curator. What is very important is that we stopped uncontrollable school closures and stopped avalanches. Teacher layoffs. Let me remind you, there were almost 47,000 of them. On the other hand, as regards the revision of the Teacher's Charter, which will allow teachers to be increased by 5% from 1 September onwards. salary, it's just that allowing for this increase without changing the budget, which does not mean that there is no money in the budget for this increase. I think what's important, what I want to talk about is how We have implemented the demands of trade unions, just negotiating with trade unions and listening to their demands. I want to make that very clear again. No one here, nor Minister Anna Zalewska, nor any of the Ministry of National Education, nor any member of the United Right coalition, says that teachers' salaries are excellent and are sufficient. We were just pointing out that we're increasing it by 16%. and that there will be further steps to improve the situation of teachers. What we can do right now is we've offered the teachers. However, the fact that in many cases teachers feel it as too small a raise, I think, is understandable, but since 2012, I will remind you, there have been no raises, and we have introduced... [[This is manipulation.]] ...if I may respond, very important changes and we have strengthened the role of trade unions. We have strengthened the role of trade unions in the school as regards both the assessment of school worksheets and staff matters in general. Even now, we're introducing... [[But that's not what I asked.]] ...such a change so that the regulations for the remuneration of teachers in local governments are adopted every year and that the unions in this process can take part. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We respect trade unions, we respect teachers. We also ask for a responsible approach to education. There's no good education without teachers, but there's a child in the center of education. And I call on us to take care of this child's well-being, to take care of his future together and not to take advantage of the internal disputes of adults. Thank you. [[Minister, that's not what I asked. What about the subsidy? What about the money?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u291	Okay, I'm sick of these speeches in no mode. Thank you very much. We move to the next question, formulated by Mr Maciej Masłowski and Mr Piotr Apel of Kukiz,15, on the forthcoming conference of the World Postal Union. Question for the Minister of Infrastructure. Please, Mr Piotr Appeal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u292	Thank you, Marshal. A conference will be held in Berne in the near future, at which a decision will be taken on tariff changes, in particular those advocated by the American side, especially as regards developing countries. We are very curious about Poland's position on this issue, all the more so because, as we know, we have to bear these different tariffs, costs. And that's also an additional question. What are the annual costs? What is their change in recent years, and are they really increasing dramatically? There is also a question of how our position on this issue is consulted and with whom, whether with third countries, and whether this entity is probably the most important in determining this position, Polish Post or other post offices, which have to bear the costs associated with this tariff difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u293	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the Minister of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u294	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the World Postal Union is to ensure the functioning of a worldwide postal network providing quality services and products. The work of the union is mainly carried out during plenary sessions, the closest of which will take place in April 2019. Participation in the work of the union provides Poland with the opportunity to negotiate favourable legal regulations in international postal trade covering issues of clearing, security, quality of customs procedures and standards. Poland participates in shaping the system of final fees for international mail, in activities aimed at improving the quality of services. It goes on for example. about the quality fund, the introduction of uniform operational standards, IT systems, the security of postal services and the development of the financial service. During the next plenary session, Poland will be represented by experienced negotiators from the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Office of Electronic Communications and the Polish Post. The basic cost of national participation in the work is a membership fee, which has so far been determined by each Member State on its own. In the case of Poland, this cost is around 217 630 Swiss francs. This cost shall be borne by the State budget. A reform of the organisation's contribution system has been under consideration for several years, in the light of which contributions would be systematically determined on the basis of measurable economic indicators and the failure of the Member State to pay would have had certain consequences. The objectives of the reform are questioned by many countries for which such a change would entail significant burdens. A compromise solution which could be accepted by a sufficient number of countries has not yet been reached. The planned changes will result in a significant increase in the contribution from Poland, which currently pays to the bank a significantly lower amount than is apparent directly from economic indicators and from the potential of postal turnover. The scale of the change is still impossible to estimate, as any change in the assumption of the algorithm significantly affects the estimated amount of the contribution. I would like to add here, or else, to the second part of the question, because one question was about congress, and the second question was about the consequences, I understand, of the announcements of the United States coming out of the World Postal Union and the direct consequences of this. On 17 October 2018, the United States announced the start of the process of leaving the World Postal Union. They justified this decision with too low rates of charges for the foreign postal delivery of small parcels resulting from the system of final charges. They use it, among other things. China, which is classified as a developing country, pays less for shipments to developed countries, among others. The United States, which seek to renegotiate the organisation's rules in this respect, while at the same time engaging in discussions, including: with Poland, as far as the possibility of bilateral regulation of postal traffic from the USA is concerned. As part of the negotiations with the World Postal Union, the United States proposes to introduce a system under which the final fees will be determined independently by each country. This proposal is supported by countries where the rates of charges are currently too low in relation to costs. These include among others: Canada, Australia, Denmark, Norway. Many countries, including e.g. Germany considers that this is too radical and risky for postal turnover, especially for low-developed countries. In the World Postal Union, compromise options are considered, increasing the relative burden of the so-called. developing countries, but not fully liberalising end-user charges. The consequence of the exit of the United States from the World Postal Union would be the need to bilaterally shape the postal turnover of all States from the United States and, on the other hand, to significantly increase the contributions of the other Member States of the organisation in order to bridge the budgetary gap. On the other hand, the adoption of a system of fees proposed by the United States within the World Postal Union will undermine the balance of postal trade between economically weaker countries and developed countries imposing high rates of charges. Poczta Polska S.A. conducts calculations of the impact of proposed changes on its financial results. As a rule, the effects of adopting any of these proposals, only reducing the distance between the fees of developing countries and other countries, are acceptable for Poland. The impact of adopting the US proposal as it stands is impossible to estimate. Neither the scale of the increases requested nor the scale of the reduction in postal turnover can be estimated. Nor is the full list of countries that would raise the rates known, but they will certainly be significant and unfavorable for Poland. I hope this answer exhausts the expectations of the questioners. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski with an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u296	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Half the minister answered our question. But there's one more part we're missing, which is why I'm going to repeat that question. Well, we very much care, Minister, to find out what the annual costs that Poland incurs for the implementation of this project are, because we know that there is this division between developed and developing countries and Poland bears the costs of these developing countries. And that's why we'd really like to know the cost. Are we more in this group of countries, can we say, with the United States, with their vision, or are we in the other group? Thank you very much. [[It's about the costs of Polish Post.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u297	Is the Minister answering? Please, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Well, in my reply I already talked about the amount, which is charged annually to Poland, i.e. the Polish Post, with the necessary amount of the contribution. We are in the second group of countries whose burdens are not as heavy as in the first group. I would like to remind you that in the case of Poland, the cost of annual fees of the World Postal Union amounts to about 217 thousand. Swiss francs and this cost shall be borne by the State budget. [[But if you'll excuse me, sir, it's about this pay gap...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u299	But now it's... Mr President, you have already exhausted your ability to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u300	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u301	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Mr Paweł Pudłowski on the grounds and reasons for arrests of presidents, managers and other senior executives in the Treasury companies since 1 January 2018. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u302	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club We have a modern question for the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. I'm really glad you're here personally to answer that question. The question concerns the arrests of presidents and high-level directors of State Treasury companies. We've heard about two of these in a short time. Our question is whether the detentions were justified. Persons detained were released without charge. Two days ago, television broadcasts a program that shows what the prosecution's non-standard actions were to stop. It is also impossible not to ask the question whether the time limit for these arrests was not accidental. We remember that he covered himself with the publication of one of the newspapers concerning the role of President Kaczyński in investment negotiations of two towers in Warsaw. And suddenly we have two arrests, as well as other detentions and information in other matters not involving the Treasury companies. That's why I'm asking you an additional question, using the situation, to your prosecutor. We would like to make sure that the prosecution is not being controlled and used, especially as regards the time limit for the cases that you are dealing with. It is hard to suppose that there has been such a convergence of these terms when it comes to the fact that we have so important detention of the highest managers in Poland in matters relating to events before 2, 3, and that of events, as we later learned, of a low level of responsibility for their weight, at the same time as the charges against President Kaczyński appear. I ask you very kindly to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u303	Thank you very much. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bogdan Święczkowski is responsible for the first Deputy Prosecutor General.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u304	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Messengers and Members, First of all, as a national prosecutor, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my surprise that this question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. As legislators who adopted the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2016, you must know that the President of the Council of Ministers has no power over the prosecution as an institution upholding the rule of law. Such a question may be answered by the Attorney General or by his deputy, but we have decided to meet with you as soon as possible in cooperation with the High Chamber to give an answer. The problem underlying the answer to this question is the generality of the question asked. It is difficult for me to answer this question in relation to the specific criminal proceedings that the prosecution has recently implemented in the fight against economic crime. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, the grounds for detention are very clearly set out in Article. 247 Code of Criminal Procedure. The prosecutor may apprehend a suspected person or a suspected person, i.e. a suspected or suspected person when he is not on call, may impede criminal proceedings or where there is a need for an immediate preventive measure. In every case, ladies and gentlemen, in which prosecutors make so-called. implementation, i.e. decide to apprehend suspects, I stress, suspects, i.e. persons on whom the order for the statement of objections has been made, is taken when there are indications as set out in the article. 247. The referee, the prosecutor conducting the proceedings in each such case, shall take a decision on its own, taking into account the objectives of the proceedings and the fact that the proceedings will be conducted correctly and that appropriate evidence will be obtained. This was the case in any case involving recent detention of former or current members of supervisory boards, boards of various types of companies, both private and companies of the Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, politicians, no politicians have an impact on the dates of these proceedings by prosecutors. Of course, these decisions are taken by the prosecution in such a way as to achieve all the objectives of this procedure. Given the expectations of your Members, any term would be wrong, either because there are elections or there are extraordinary events in politics, in public life. The prosecutor cannot pay attention to what is happening in public or media life, but must take into account the responsibility of the perpetrators of crime to uphold the rule of law that I mentioned earlier. Ladies and gentlemen! In any of these cases, there was no situation in which the defendants were not charged. Each person detained was subsequently charged with charges. After questioning that person, the prosecutor decided whether to refer the application to the court for temporary arrest or to take measures of liberty. As you may well know, since 1995, the prosecutor has not applied a precautionary measure in the form of a temporary arrest. By 1995, the D.A. could have made those decisions. Currently, the prosecutor merely addresses a request for a provisional arrest to the court and the independent court takes a decision in this regard. Either it applies, at the request of the prosecutor, a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest in an unconditional manner for a specified period of time, it applies the so-called. Conditional arrest, that is to say, applies arrest and at the same time reserves that a person may leave temporary detention after payment of a certain amount of money or under a guarantee of property, or applies freedom measures. Recently, ladies and gentlemen, in some of the proceedings carried out by the National Public Prosecutor's Office for the fight against economic crime, prosecutors have sent applications for temporary detention and have decided to apply the measures of freedom. In the case of some of these proceedings, the court accepted requests from prosecutors to apply these temporary detentions, in part not, it applied free measures. On the other hand, I have not come across a situation where the court considers that there is no general condition, i.e. that there is no high level of suspicion as to the existence of criminal offences which have been alleged to the persons concerned. Of course, in the course of further proceedings, when the prosecutor decides whether or not to direct an indictment, the case will be assessed in full by an independent court. The person in question will either be convicted or acquitted, ladies and gentlemen. That's what the prosecution is for, and that's why it's an independent, independent judiciary, so that this cycle continues, so that innocent people don't take criminal responsibility, and guilty people have a severe criminal responsibility for economic crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u305	Thank you very much. The additional question is, are you...? No? Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next set of questions. Mr Waldemar Andzel on the reorganisation of public transport in smaller municipalities and rural areas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u306	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Almost 14 million Poles live in municipalities where there is no organized public transport. The investments made and the large omissions made so far have only increased the distance between large cities and smaller centres. In the 1990s, city transport used 7.3 billion passengers per year in Poland, but statistics began to change rapidly. In 1990, PKS was divided into 176 local companies. Of course, there were many local private carriers on the market, but mostly they organised long-distance journeys on which they could earn money. The decrease in the number of routes of the former PKS network by half caused that up to 20% of the village in Poland did not reach any public transport. This involves some problems. Forced motoring cannot be used by minors because they do not have a driver's license, as well as disabled and sick people, as well as those who are simply afraid to drive. A trip to a neighboring village, where there are shops, clinics or schools, is often a matter of long journey. When the bus is gone, a dozen kilometers It's an insurmountable distance. The problem is also the fact that one in 10 Poles cannot afford a car, and having one in rural areas becomes a requirement for employment. This results in discrimination against a certain part of society. Candidates who do not own a car are often rejected at the recruitment stage. I would therefore ask the Minister to answer the following questions: What part of the funding from the "Infrastructure" programme will be devoted to restoring local connections in small cities and municipalities? During what period is the implementation of the "Local Connection" programme planned? Does the Ministry provide for an educational campaign to promote the use of public transport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u307	Thank you very much. The answer is given by the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u308	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Waldemar Andzel very much for this question, which concerns an extreme issue, namely the fight against the exclusion of communication, which was taken by the Government of Law and Justice, building two pillars of this undertaking. The first pillar contained in the so-called The fifth Jarosław Kaczyński, the second in the fifth Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. It is the reconstruction of local communications connections, it is the elimination of white spots on the communication map of our country, it is the fulfilment of the expectations of thousands, you can say: millions of Poles who hope that they will be able to safely leave their village for 7 days a week, reach the health center, school, work centre and matters that are important for themselves to other institutions or simply in human terms for shopping, family or friends. That they would be able to take advantage of public transport, bus transport. As you have said and how you have formulated this thesis in your question, today we have a difficult situation, because the predecessors unfortunately acknowledged by adopting the law on public collective transport in 2010 that this invisible hand of the market will straighten everything out that the invisible hand of the market will solve the problem of car transport in small towns. And what has this invisible hand of the market done? It has resulted in the elimination of many unprofitable connections. The state must support the citizens excluded by communication. The state must put on this in a reasonable, balanced way, bear the expenditures that will liberate energy and allow Poles to believe that collective car transport can also function in Poland as it was many years ago. This is what the Self-Government Road Fund is for. I answer Mr Waldemar Andzel to one of the questions: the fund will be funded annually by at least PLN 800 million from the state budget. This amount will reduce, this amount will reduce, this amount will remove the deficit in transport on specific bus lines. This amount, combined with the efforts of local governments, will also help to close the deficit on lines that do not have so-called. Coverages, i.e. are not popular among travellers, but must function among others. Or, above all, for reasons I have already mentioned. The question is, at what time, sir. We hope that the High House will agree to the bill submitted, which is already in the process of consulting, that we will already be able to apply this law in the second half of May. I hope this is a real term, because this is the term we declared to the Poles, it was declared by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I had the great privilege of participating in this undertaking, confirming this declaration. So we'd like it to be in June, July, in cooperation with local governments... Because this project will not work otherwise, if there is no commitment, there will be no support of local governments, because it is the local governments that know exactly at the municipal, district and voivodeship level, which lines should be reactivated. We hope that the local authorities will interact with our programme, that the local authorities will indicate the line, confirm with countersignation of the appropriate level, whether it is the council of the municipality, district or sejmik, that the line, where the deficit will be financed, is reactivated or will be established, created where it has not yet functioned. We will then be able to regulate this deficit together and be happy that the inhabitants of small towns will be able to communicate. I hope that this will be the case: with connecting nodes, with railway stops, with railway stations, with stops on national roads or with bus stations, if we mean bus transport. Well, this project will be supported, already supported by the Fund for Roads of Local Government. Let me remind you that the voivodeships are already conducting the recruitment for this year, another one already, because last year the recruitment was also carried out in September, and in August this year there will be another recruitment for the next year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will be able to allocate PLN 6 billion under the Self-Government Road Fund for municipal and district roads. This should also help to combat the exclusion of communications by increasing road safety, improving municipal and local roads. Thank you, Marshal. I'm sorry I extended my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u309	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Ms Teresa Wargock will ask a question about differences in earnings between women and men and measures to improve the situation of women in the labour market in this area. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u310	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, has taken many steps to improve the fate of the most vulnerable. Law and Justice supports Polish citizens, restores dignity to Poles, supports them, invests in the family. I would like, Minister, in connection with the 500+ programme and the announcement of the extension of this programme, to ask the Minister how the situation of women in the labour market is shaping. How have the earnings of men and women developed in recent years? What is the pay gap between pay for men and women and is there a difference in pay for high positions, management or management? What is the number of active women and what is the trend in this regard. What forms of employment do women prefer, how often they benefit from flexible working time, and how often do they benefit from incomplete working time? Does the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy conduct research in this area? If so, please zoom in on their results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u311	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Stanisław Szwed, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! In answer to the question about the gender pay gap and how to improve, I will start with this issue related to the pay gap. Today, the situation in Poland in this area is definitely changing, these figures on the difference in salaries between women and men compared to other highly developed countries are beneficial to us. I will quote data from the latest PwC report published in March this year. The wage gap rate in Poland reached 5% in 2017, after Luxembourg, we are the second country with the lowest level of this indicator among the countries analysed. Eurostat presents another measure of this gap. Also according to these calculations, the difference in earnings of men and women in Poland is small. In 2017, it amounted to 7.2%. At the same time, the average in the European Union was 16%. This is one of the lowest values in the European Union. The lower level of this indicator was observed only in Italy, Luxembourg and Belgium. The pay gap between women and men among public sector workers is generally lower compared to the private sector. In 2017, this indicator in Poland amounted to 2.8% which was one of the lowest recorded values. In most EU countries, this indicator is higher than 10%. Against wage gap in a situation where women receive lower wages than men for similar work is an important activity, and in Polish conditions, mostly on the side of employers. In the public sector, where wage setting is formalised, the wage gap is low, there is virtually no wage gap. Unfortunately, in the private sector it often reaches a dozen or even dozens of percent. In Poland it is on average 16%. With regard to the situation of women in the labour market, this report indicates that Poland made very significant progress in improving the situation of women in the labour market, especially in the last 3 years. Poland in the ranking improved its position from 19th to 8th position, i.e. an improvement of up to 11 positions. Again, it was the second highest score among the respondents after Luxembourg. I also think it's worth emphasising. This shows that although indicators can be optimistic, action must be taken to improve the situation of women in the labour market. I think it is also worth showing how low unemployment at the moment affects easier to find employment than a few years ago. This is reflected in the increase in employment rates for women aged 15 and 64, and most importantly, 25 and 49-year-old women and women of pre-retirement age. This employment rate in the third quarter of 2018 was more than 77% and compared to the previous year, it was 2.4% higher. The employment rates of women with children in this age group are higher than the average rates in the European Union. It is also worth noting that the situation of women of pre-retired age, i.e. at the age of 55 and 59, has improved considerably in recent years. In the third quarter of 2018, it was almost 62%. and this rate was higher by almost 2% compared to the previous year. I think it is worth stressing here that one of the key actions we are taking in the Ministry is actions that improve not only the situation of women but also access to the labour market. It should be mentioned here, above all, about the "Maluch+" programme. Here, this threefold increase in expenditure, from PLN 150 million to PLN 450 million, allows for greater support when it comes to daycare as well as family assistants. All these activities are being undertaken to help women combine work and child rearing. The issue of the Labour Code, i.e. parental leave, is also well regulated and this improves the situation. The last question, because I am running out of time, very important information about the percentage of women employed in management positions in Poland. In 2017, according to Eurostat, it amounted to more than 41% and was one of the highest among the countries of the European Union. The EU average was 33%. So what we often hear - that in Poland there are fewer women on company boards - doesn't match up to the data we have. We also have data on the boards of large companies themselves - more than 27% of women in our country, and the percentage in Europe - 21%. The measures we are taking show that the situation in both this trend in the labour market of women and the wage gap has definitely improved. We're just happy for you. Of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure there's still a lot to be done about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u313	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, on the financing of cancer treatment, on the example of the refusal of NFZ to provide funds to hospitals for the purchase of medicines for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u314	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! We know, the statistics say that one in four people in the near future is going to get cancer. That's epidemiology. One of the most common cancers is lung cancer, and among lung cancers more than 80% is non-small cell carcinoma. Although a regulation has been in force for several months, which talks about a drug program using immunocompetent molecules, it turns out that patients do not have enough help and support, and we know that it is easier to treat survival, to survive at all, when using modern medicines, and the period - whether in the first or in the second line - the survival of patients when using more modern medicines is longer, even a few years. It's in every single man's life that matters. Suddenly it turns out that we are dealing with a situation even curiosity. The National Health Fund does not give money for a drug program that is applicable to the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, and in writing corresponds to health care institutions: The National Health Fund obliges the hospital to implement the contract for the provision of healthcare services for drug programmes in accordance with its provisions and the provisions contained in the regulations of the President of the National Health Fund. But then he adds, "We don't have the money and the money for this drug program we won't give. You mean what? You want the principal to steal, plant his money? Where's he gonna get it? The Fund obliges to receive treatment under a given programme [[♪ The bell ♪]] a drug that's been around for a dozen months, and there's no treatment. What's it like, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u315	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maciej Miłkowski corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u316	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Honourable Members! To answer the question, I wanted to inform you at the outset that the National Health Fund is signing a contract with healthcare providers for the implementation of, among others. medication programs. For each drug programme after its launch, a competition procedure shall be carried out in each branch for which the Director of the National Health Fund Branch is responsible, which shall allocate certain funds in this respect. Regarding the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, in 2017 there were two programs, in which a total of about PLN 45 million was transferred to drugs. In 2018 benefits were realized for the amount of PLN 83 million. So that growth is almost twice as high. This is related to the fact that since May Ub. additional medicines have been authorised for funding and under the same programme. As a result, the directors of some departments of the National Health Fund have additionally contracted, increased the value of contracts with healthcare providers, and in some branches they have launched additional competitions. At the end of the year, the value of benefits that were not refunded, i.e. after 15 February... We have received a report from branch directors on the benefits provided and in these programmes the unpaid medicines funds amount to 4759 thousand. and 511,000. [[In the case of this program?]] This program, just this program. A total of 5271 thousand. PLN 83 million. These funds after start-up, after the change of the financial plan of PLN 444 million from the reserve fund, which was increased, rebuilt by the amendment of the law in December Ub. They will be distributed either in March or in April this year. for all healthcare providers, not only in this programme, but in all drug programs that occur. Unpaid benefits for the previous year for all drug programmes are 55 225 000 for medicines. And 17,500 thousand. - applications, qualification for programs. It's 72,780,000 in total. zł and this will be passed on, as I said, in April this year. That's about 0.4%. the value of the planned benefits in terms of the total reimbursement budget last year, which amounted to PLN 12 772 million, of which PLN 4.2 billion are earmarked for drug programmes and chemotherapy. As you know, drug programs and chemotherapy are the fastest growing area. The increase in this area over the last 6 years has been on average around 13 and 14%. At the same time, the increase in medicines sold at the pharmacy was on average 1.2% per year. So that the Ministry of Health attaches great importance to increasing the availability of innovative therapies and increasing the budget for financing innovative medicines. As far as waiting times are concerned, we have monitoring of waiting times for drug programs. We don't really see these people together at all. Among other things, at the centre mentioned in the press, for 60 people... [[Are you referring to the Minister of Lublin?]] Yes. ...there were only three people who were reported on the waiting list formally, where the National Health Fund knew that these people were expecting. That's what we're gonna be doing. I know that in some programs it is so that not all actors introduce patients, even though they have reported them. That's the problem we had, among other things. in the case of a hepatitis C treatment programme, where the waiting patients were significantly less than in the centres that these patients were concerned because it was found that there was too long waiting time and therefore no qualification and full diagnosis of these patients would be performed. But as the queue gets smaller, because there was a very large queue - now there is virtually no more in Poland - this problem does not occur. This year we're trying to, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So there's no time to wait for oncology therapy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u317	Thank you. Welcome to the primary school in Ćmińska... [[You can't hear me, Marshal.]] I will say it louder that we welcome the young people from the school in Ćmińska in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. We're very pleased. [[Applause]] You're asking an additional question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u318	Minister! The money in April, the special procedure, and the NFZ for months responds: we don't have the money. So this is really just a treatment on paper, and I have to say that this situation is unacceptable. You started talking about those debts. I would like to ask for information on the scale of the NFZ's debt to hospitals which treat oncology, i.e. unlimited benefits, overperformances, drug programs, on a yearly basis, in respect of the past year. How much does the NFZ have to pay the hospitals? I would like to ask, because very interesting rumors are circulating in the medical world, that the NFZ answers at all: you treat, but we will not give you money, because the scale of the debt of the NFZ is 10 billion PLN at all. Minister! Because I see you're surprised. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second question I ask is to answer in writing, explaining what billions are, what debt it is, what it is under this line. [[And where did you read that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u319	Thank you very much, Member. Minister, please, I understand that you will answer in writing. [[One part in writing.]] One part in writing. Yes, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u320	As I said, for all drug programmes, the debt of the National Health Fund is 72 788 thousand. zł and this is debt in terms of medicines and medications. [[And you just said 55 million.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u321	But you have already asked questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u322	Medications - 55 million, applications - 17 million. A total of 72 788 thousand. There's, I don't know exactly, I don't have the data, the debt on other oncology benefits. These benefits will also be paid. In total, all benefits not paid in hospital treatment for the previous year, which we have identified, is PLN 326 million. And these are different ranges, not only oncology, but also all the others. And as far as the others are concerned, I don't know this press release, and I don't know what it could be...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u323	This, Minister, I will also ask for a written reply on the whole oncology treatment, what debt is, plus in writing what concerns debts in general of the NFZ Centre, this amount of PLN 10 billion. I'll have that, marshal, in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u324	Madam, you already had time. [[I'm taking advantage of the Minister's time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u325	Yes. I don't know about that, but I'll give it all to you in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u326	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, a question about the illegal export of medicines from Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It must be acknowledged that the prices of the vast majority of medicines in our country are much lower than those in Western European countries. This is also affected by the fact that they are established through negotiations with pharmaceutical companies. For example, the same drug, which costs 100 PLN in Poland, in Germany, France or another country can cost up to 100 EUR. In many cases, the price difference is even greater. Therefore, unfortunately, the practice used is also to export them and sell them abroad. In this way we are dealing with the so-called. A drug mafia. The value of illegal medicinal products is estimated at almost PLN 2 billion. They are exported using specially created pharmacies, wholesalers operating double accounts, fake clinics, and even veterinary clinics. As a result, almost notoriously, about 200 medicines are missing on the pharmacies shelves in Poland, which are very necessary for the treatment of various diseases. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether efforts are being made to effectively cut back on this practice and to really prevent the illegal export of medicines from Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Miłkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, again responds. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u329	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. This is our main subject, the subject of our concern. There is now a great deal going on in this area, in terms of changing the law, because we are working on this subject for many years, during all the term of the Sejm, so that illegal drug exports are stopped. As we can see, this mechanism is mainly based on the acquisition of medicines from the retail market by wholesale traders for the purpose of their resale abroad at an overpriced price, as you have said, also by medicinal entities. Regulations were introduced in 2015, but they proved insufficient. We see organized criminal groups that are linked to this reverse distribution chain and in which all entities, i.e. manufacturers, wholesalers, pharmacies, medicinal entities, are involved. This, of course, leads to a reduced availability of important medicines on the market. Of course, the very important point is that the Economic Commission, which negotiates drug prices, is a very efficient collegial body that negotiates drug prices, and we actually have low prices... [[So he negotiates that the prices are higher.]] ...although manufacturers often treat Poland worse than many other countries. So that we have relatively low drug prices. Currently, it is being processed, it has been submitted to the Sejm jointly prepared by the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Justice by a proposal to amend pharmaceutical law, which restores, first of all, the Penalization of conduct consisting of illegal trade in medicinal products. The project includes various legislative initiatives, including: improving the rules allowing for a smooth inspection or control of economic activities in the field of medicinal products, extending the scope of cooperation of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection with the Police and Border Guard, introducing a ban on the supply by pharmaceutical wholesalers of medicinal products from retail traders, clarifying provisions that clearly indicate that the purpose of the operation of public pharmacies and pharmacies is to directly supply the public with medicinal products, through a precise indication of how medicinal products are disposed of and transferred, and clarifying the rules allowing voivodships to impose financial penalties for the illegal sale of medicinal products. Proceded rules, as well as those introduced into pharmaceutical law during the last year, which prevent the grouping of different entities in one hand, i.e. hospitals and pharmacies are beginning to be used so that they are not ordered and sold at the same time. When it comes to drugs at risk, there are currently about 340 drugs on the anti-export list, this list is more or less constant, but that means that these are drugs that have individual... They are not always different medicines, because they are different types of packaging. It is a total of 156 items, medicines, but drugs with an active substance are less than 100. This list is created on the basis of weekly reports by voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors, which are reported on the basis of reports from 5% pharmacies that tell you there's a problem with your medicine. This is often linked to an exceptional situation in a given region or area. These are often short-term shortcomings, sometimes production problems in producers or some other incident problems that make the situation worse. The situation is that actually drugs are available. We are fighting against medications not to go abroad, as well as the fact that no pharmacy has any problems with deliveries, it is about incorrect delivery, asking for additional information, e.g. if you have a PESEL or a prescription number. Any illegal operation of the wholesaler is legalized, we always get involved and it's getting better and better, and we get less and less information that pharmacies have a problem that they're discriminated against other pharmacies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] as regards the supply of medicines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u330	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Marek Kwitek on the functioning of agriculture...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u331	Yet, Marshal, an additional question...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u332	Would you like a Member?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u333	That's how it was written. [[He thought about it, and he doesn't want to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u334	I don't want to. Good. Thank you very much. Mr Marek Kwitek will ask a question about the functioning of agricultural retail trade.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u335	Minister! The amendment of the law on agricultural retail trade was very expected by farmers, as it offers great opportunities to increase the profitability of small and medium-sized farms. It is basically a solution to the expectations of the market and consumers. Farmers may sell the food produced and processed on their farm directly to the consumer, without intermediaries who often earn more on margins than producers. Consumers are guaranteed to purchase directly from a well-known source of healthy and fresh food produced by farmers by traditional methods under domestic conditions, wholly or partly from their cultivation, breeding or chow. It is also possible to negotiate the price of the product, which is beneficial for both parties. This agricultural activity does not need to be approved by the health or veterinary services as it was before, but only registered: in the case of plant processing - in the case of health inspection, but in the case of meat processing - in the Veterinary Inspection. Farm trade can be carried out directly on the farm, on markets, during exhibitions, festivals, bazaars, and since January 2019 the new rules that farmers have been waiting for extend the possibility of selling food products, among others. retail for final consumer, including shops, restaurants or cafés. Manufacturers at every stage: production, processing and sales must, of course, ensure adequate health safety for food. Farmers who receive additional income from the sale of processed food also have tax incentives because they are exempt from paying personal tax on income up to 40 000. Only above this amount will the farmer be required to pay a flat-rate, 2% tax. Minister! How did the new rules improve the profitability of small and medium-sized farms? How many farmers are involved in the agricultural retail trade? Did the new rules cause farmers to leave the so-called "farmers"? The gray area? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How have farmers been informed about the change of the rules and facilitations introduced, the benefits of retail business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u336	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Ryszard Zarudzki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Farm retail is one of the important priorities of the Ministry. As you have put it, the work that we started almost three years ago is now as if it were a percentage. In particular, the recent enlargements that allow agricultural retail trade to become an element, I think, of increasingly growing entrepreneurship in rural areas are also important. Let us remind you of what we said: We are expanding a possibility, there is a greater possibility, there is no tax on income up to 40,000. That was mentioned. It is also possible to sell directly to shops, restaurants, thus creating conditions allowing in particular to secure the income of small farms without increasing the economic activity of... All you have to do is register. The honourable Member asks how the introduction of this form of retail trade, because agricultural trade is retail, has affected farmers and how big it is today, as we inform farmers. There's a few elements here. First of all, we have to say this: From the data that are currently available, it appears that under supervision is almost 2900 - actually not close, but precisely. We have two inspections here, which are friendly - we still need to convince farmers about this reality - I stress: in a friendly way they control... They control that is too big a word. Inspections help farmers: Veterinary Inspection - those who process animal production at their farm, and health inspection - those who are involved in plant production. And now for the first part, we have nearly $3,000. such operators, farmers engaged in agricultural retailing of products of animal origin and composite food. This is the first case. As far as plant production is concerned, these data are partial because accurate information will be known at the end of March. But right now, we estimate it's about $1,000. holdings. So a total of about 4,000. holdings have taken up plant production, processed animal production or direct sales in the framework of agricultural trade. You could say, "Well, that's 4,000.? Is that a lot, or is that not enough? Depends on how we look at it. As far as a process is concerned, please bear in mind that we need to create a certain belief that it is worthwhile, we need to encourage farmers, however, that these small investments, which do not require registration, large expenditures, large modernisations, building some technological strings, exist. I will also say that we partly want to see what has been decided so far, to see the light of day, so that the grey zone shows its values, to show that it is worth going to the surface and to start to function normally within the law. This process is happening, which is why I think there's going to be a significant snowball effect here. I don't know if it's a lot or not, but I know this process is happening, that it's a few thousand farms across the country. We're going to analyze this process. And the best example of the fact that this is developing is the last recruitment within the framework of the so-called. lines for the processing and marketing of agricultural products. I have up-to-date data here that indicate that close to... not close, but exactly 746 applications were submitted for funding up to 100,000. zł as a support, i.e., it can be said that a large proportion of those farmers who have registered agricultural trade, or those with which this has led to the need for registration, make such small investments. Up to 100,000. Support can be obtained and the investment can be worth up to 200,000. But these are the maximum sizes, so you can do 50, 60,000. invest, renovate the kitchen, you can make such a friendly investment in small equipment needed for processing, meat processing, in certain strings that will enable us to secure ourselves, if not so far, and in the form of a friendly one, which will also be indicated by this office, which registers it, i.e. the Veterinary Inspection or health centre. It was the first call. I'm personally satisfied. This is a very good process, as we inform you. I'm thinking farm advisory centers. Since 2005, we have nearly 190 small gutters, i.e. there are small gutters in the municipalities and we must also make this retail trade open up to these direct possibilities in a more civilised way. That's why I think [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a good start. It's a start, and you just need the consequences and the time to make it a mass enterprise. And that's why I thank you for that question. I'm sure we're going the right way, in the right direction. We monitor it on an ongoing basis to overcome the problems that arise. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u338	Thank you very much. Ms. Anna Maria Siarkowska asks a question about the aid granted... [[Excuse me, Marshal, another question. May I?]] Well, if you must, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u339	I'll refer to what the Minister said. First of all...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u340	That was an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u341	...is the money pool, as far as this aid is concerned, exhausted? Does the Minister predict that in the autumn, even with regard to the fruitors, another edition could be launched? And one more thing. Is the promotion appropriate? Does it really reach farmers effectively? And what further action should be taken in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u342	Please, Minister Zarudzki is again responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u343	Never enough promotions. I understand the Member. I know what kind of voivodship you're from and where you work every day. A lot depends on counseling centers. You have to sit with them, verify what I want to do, what analysis I want to do, in every voivodship. At the moment I am at the stage of determining how many new RHDs are registered in the field of plant production and animal production, I want to see how many have applied for support from each voivodship with nearly 800 applications, and I want to settle advisory centers. [[I've got the data.]] It's one of the criteria of evaluation, it's just that. So I understand your question. I have a meeting next week with the heads of the centers and, please, these voivodships are about to present me with these analyses. That's one of the points. There's enough money. I also want to point out that we need to be careful enough not to fire the baby with the bath. This is important. The snowball effect shows: it's a little hard to start, but you have to make certain requirements, minimal, for example, so as not to cause any unnecessary turbulence that will bring us back to square one. So, calm down, consistently. This is the stage. After all, the recruitment ended recently, two weeks ago, about the agricultural retail trade. I don't know the accounts of my directors at their work yet, and that's one of the elements. I now have a tool in the form of means for counseling, advisors must be valued. One of such criteria for assessing the directors themselves, among others. this is how many groups are for innovation and how the agricultural retail trade in the voivodship is developing. This is a point of reference for me that we're going to be working on. Here we have a good trial, and I'm calm that we're gonna get better results. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u344	Thank you very much, Minister. Now Mrs. Anna Maria Siarkowska asks a question about the assistance provided by Polish consular posts to parents residing in Norway, whose office Barnevernet takes away children.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to raise a loud topic, which the whole of Poland lived a few weeks ago. It concerns the situation of Polish families in Norway, which for various reasons receive children from Barnevernet, a Norwegian service theoretically established to protect children. Polish public opinion has long been appalled by the abuses that occurred in the framework of Barnevernet's activities towards Polish citizens in Norway. Fortunately, the Polish diplomatic and consular authorities reacted strongly in such cases. Unfortunately, a few weeks ago there was a scandal, because during the intervention by Polish Consul Sławomir Kowalski in Hamar there was a violation by the Norwegian police of diplomatic immunity and the integrity of the personal consul. The Norwegian police prevented him from carrying out his consular duties in accordance with international conventions. And here comes the question of the subsequent actions of the Norwegian party, which considered your consul to be persona non grata. These actions met with a symmetrical reaction of the Polish side, but this certainly does not close the whole issue. The questions are: What consequences have been drawn towards the Norwegian police who violated diplomatic immunity, the personal immunity of the consul, preventing him from carrying out his consular duties? Whether the unlawful action of the Norwegian police towards the Consul Kowalski was notified to the Norwegian party as an incident in breach of the provisions of the Vienna Convention on consular relations and diplomatic relations. The additional question is: Does the Ministry have any knowledge of the fact that Polish officials, who from social assistance centres subject to local governments, were directed to training in Norway, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Were they trained by Barnevernet officials? Is that true?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u346	Thank you very much, Member. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Simon Szynkowski, aka Sęk, is responsible. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u347	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Thank you very much for your interest in this matter, because indeed both you - I think - and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very much at the heart of the welfare of Poles living outside our country. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, like the State, is concerned about the cases of Barnevernet's proceedings, the office appointed to protect children and young people, of which there are significant doubts as to whether it is always operating within and within the legal framework. The incident in Hamar, mentioned by Mrs Hamar, has been reported. That's where I'd like to answer the first question. The facility reacted very clearly to this incident. It took place in the summer of Ub. r. The institution sent a protest note to the Norwegian authorities, indicating that the intervention of police officers in that institution went beyond the framework of the Convention, violated, in our opinion, the Convention. Such an opinion, such a note of protest was given. That's the first thing. Second thing. The Consul, who has already left Norway, has indeed deserved very much in terms of decisive, first of all, effective interventions in the protection of children and young people who are Polish citizens. I would like to point out that in 2017 social services took action against Polish children in 56 cases which were reported to our consular services. 34 new cases of this kind emerged in 2018. Thanks to the support of the Consul of the Republic of Poland, nearly half of the matters connected with Barnevernet's intervention in parental power ended with the return of children to biological parents. The protection of Polish citizens, actions for them and in their defence are, always have been and remain one of the foundations and priorities of Polish diplomacy, which I would like to stress with all my determination. In a situation where the Norwegian authorities have provided an expectation, also notified in the form of a note, to withdraw from the role of the consul who effectively carried out that obligation, the reply in this case was refused. As you know, when a measure was applied to a consul that considered him undesirable in the territory of the Kingdom of Norway, the Polish authorities, the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, applied mutual actions here. On the other hand, I think that in some ways it is meaningful, and I would like to stress that Mr Kowalski, when he returned to the country, was offered the role of deputy director in the Polish and Polish departments abroad. Consul Kowalski accepted this proposal, so his knowledge, experience, its effectiveness will be used by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. One last thing. I have no knowledge, because it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to have officials at local level going to Norway for some training. I have no such knowledge, but I know that Barnevernet officials visited Poland in early March at the invitation of the Ombudsman. You invited them to see the effectiveness of our child's rights protection system. As I know and as the report shows, it was a very constructive and useful visit. We want to show that our child's rights protection system is effective and does not refer to such drastic methods that Barnevernet's family care system refers to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u348	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Andrzej Kryj has an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u349	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to express my appreciation for the actions undertaken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also what the Ministry of Justice takes to protect Polish families, Polish citizens. And I would particularly like to address warm words to Consul Sławomir Kowalski, who behaved as a Polish diplomat should behave in such situations. At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister: Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have current knowledge of the Barnevernet proceedings taking place against Polish citizens at this moment, in the first quarter of 2019? If so, what information has been obtained and does the Polish website obtain such information on an ongoing basis? Second question: Did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, take action to develop a procedure with the Norwegian party for the transfer of children from Polish families in Norway to foster families in Poland? The provisions of the Hague Convention on Jurisdiction permit this [[♪ The bell ♪]] of 1996 Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u350	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, again responds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u351	Thank you, Marshal. As for the first quarter in 2019, we do not yet have such data. I've recounted the data in the past two years, but we're monitoring this situation on an ongoing basis. I would like to point out here that the consular service has such a specificity that it most often responds to applications of Polish citizens who feel injured in connection with the conduct or decisions in question. However, because this problem is a complex problem - and our consuls are allergic, the consul who will go to the place and replace you with Consul Kowalski is also aware that this is one of the important problems of Polish citizens in Norway - we try to look at it in a comprehensive way. I am so convinced that the consular service, which moves within the framework of the law, carries out 110% what can be done for Polish citizens. I would like to stress once again that the protection of Polish citizens, the activity for their benefit, regardless of what the position of individual institutions or foreign offices is often, is and will remain a priority of Polish diplomacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u352	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current meeting of the Sejm will consider information on the legislative measures taken in 2016 and 2018 leading to the sealing of the tax system and the guarantee of budgetary revenues allowing the implementation of the numerous social programmes requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, representatives of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal may authorise the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Gabriela Mastowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u353	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Improving effectiveness in the fight against crime and tax abuse and in the fight against aggressive tax optimisation have become a priority for the rule of law and justice and the United Rights. Many years of negligence in this regard caused multi-billion-dollar losses of the state budget, estimated at at at least PLN 250 billion in 2007, and we meet estimates of up to PLN 400 billion as far as VAT is concerned. High Izbo! The leaking taxes were already mentioned long before 2015, for example in the alarming reports of the European Commission. There were also industry reports. The fuel, steel, electronic and other industries have repeatedly asked for a response. It wasn't secret knowledge. All you had to do was go into the finance department to see the thick files covered in dust, unread complaints about the activities of VAT carousels. It was also necessary to look at the dynamics of VAT revenues to the budget, or rather the lack of this dynamic. There was no need for outstanding experts to see that there was really something wrong with VAT, since it grew well below that time's growth in GDP and consumption. Inaction and omission in the fight against crime and tax abuse have dared criminals who have moved from one sector to another and have made them unpunished. Poland under the PO-PSL regime has become an infamous example of a growing tax collection gap, which in 2015 was 7 times higher than in 2007. In 2007, we had the best results, only the Netherlands had a bigger gap than us. During these few years, from 2007 to 2014, as a country, we have achieved the largest increase in the VAT gap in the European Union to 2,26%. The PiS government, with unprecedented consequences, has joined legislative and organisational measures aimed at sealing the tax system in order to guarantee budgetary revenues, equalise the competitive position of fairly clearing taxpayers and traders and build the principles of healthy competition. As a result of sealing activities in 2017, the revenue of the State budget from VAT increased by as much as PLN 33.7 billion compared to 2015, i.e. by 27.4%. Sealing the collection of income taxes has contributed to an increase in PIT and CIT revenues, both in the state budget and in the budgets of local government units. In 2018, PIT revenues increased by around 34% compared to 2015 and CIT by around 35% compared to the same period of 2015. Poland's experience in sealing the tax system based on dialogue with taxpayers, based on incentives for innovation, is appreciated by European countries. The three-year period of experience is appropriate to assess the effectiveness of the numerous solutions implemented and to continue to work on simplifying the system, eliminating existing inconsistencies in the legal system, irrationality and introducing instruments to facilitate the application of the rules. Thanks to such a policy of the Law and Justice Government, we were able to finance on a large scale social policy expenditure, mainly pro-family policy, which we could only dream of in previous governments. It is not only about 500+, the school trip, it is about free medicines, it is about mother's pension, pension+, but also, ladies and gentlemen, helping entrepreneurs, lowering CIT or small ZUS and many other activities. Topic of this information [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's supposed to serve us...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u354	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u355	...to assess individual instruments and possibly information on planned actions in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u356	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for inviting me and giving me the opportunity to present the measures that the government has taken to seal the VAT system. Ladies and gentlemen, the first important element of sealing the system is that the Ministry of Finance has a team of professionals with support, i.e. We have backup that tells us: yes, you do it. We're gonna pass laws that are gonna get you to seal the system. The conditions for success are the employment of professionals, and we have done so, and the support we have in the Sejm. I also thank the opposition for this support. Thank you for supporting sometimes difficult solutions that require additional reporting requirements that impose certain obligations, sometimes unpleasant. Despite this, not only Members of the Government, but also Members of the opposition support these difficult solutions. Thank you very much for this. What was done? In 2016, it was evident that such an increasing problem was simply theft of VAT. This VAT wasn't getting any worse because someone wasn't doing... i.e. because someone does not issue invoices, but above all because undue refunds take this VAT out of the budget. This is why the most urgent issue was carried out in 2016, i.e. the so-called. fuel package. The fuel package has led to a significant increase in VAT and excise revenues in relation to the so-called. legal fuel trading. Suddenly it turned out that a few percent increased the revenue from VAT on fuel. It was that within a few months these increases were very significant. It was such a first impulse. The second issue was dealt with in 2016. It was called. JPK_VAT, a system, is a very important monthly reporting of VAT sales and purchases in the format xml. What does that mean? This means that the tax administration receives a very good set of data that can be easily analysed. But that is not enough, because the analysis of the data itself is not enough, and now we need to take appropriate action. These actions were e.g. information that went to taxpayers that there were some inconsistencies. What happened? In 2016, ladies and gentlemen, we introduced JPK_VAT for the largest companies. But these biggest companies have shown us that they have invoices in their purchases from small and medium-sized enterprises, sometimes single-person enterprises. We saw that some of these invoices are not reported for sale by those companies. We have therefore taken appropriate action. In 2017, this system was extended to small and medium-sized enterprises and in 2018 to the smallest, i.e. all. Since 2018, this system has been complete, covering around 1600 thousand. registered VAT taxable persons. In 2018 we observed that we do not actually have unfolded JPK_VAT files. Unfolded JPK_VAT files are about 1 or 2% the general population. Another very important reform, which may not have been related to the VAT gap, but very significant from a behavioral point of view, was a reform in mid-2016 - the adoption of a general clause against tax avoidance, i.e. the adoption of rules that were in public space, I do not know, since 2002, when they were repealed by the Constitutional Tribunal, but then nothing happened for a long time. Probably in 2014 projects appeared to reinstate this clause. Only in mid 2016 was this general clause introduced. In 2017, at the beginning, the fiscal administration was consolidated. One thing is to make provisions that give tools and use these tools to collect analytical data and take appropriate action, and the other is to have people in the field who are doing this. The flow of information between these electronic data sets that we have and the people who do this in the field is rapid and smooth. This was achieved through the consolidation of the National Tax Administration in March 2017. In 2018 we introduced STIR. This is a system that completes the existing reporting related to JPK_VAT. Namely, we have in JPK_VAT reporting monthly purchases and sales in the case of those companies which are VAT-oceans. Thanks to STIR we have information about payments in accounts in business relations to business, i.e. between entrepreneurs who are VAT-entrepreneurs. We can compile these data. We're putting them together now. This allows us to react very quickly when we see suspicious entities. We can cross them off the ledger. We're able to react very quickly because we can freeze the funds in our account, what we're doing. We are able to react very quickly, to act preventively, because we will not register someone who is unbelievable on VAT. Banks also make their own assessment from the VAT risk point of view. They also see that someone who cheats VAT is not a good customer for them. They're happy to throw him out of their system. This makes it increasingly limited, almost impossible to extort VAT from the state budget on a massive scale. Finally, in 2018, halfway through, we introduced split, which is a split payment mechanism for VAT. This is also a mechanism that provides real protection for economic operators against embezzling them into VAT carousels. To the entrepreneur comes a customer, a contractor and says: Buy the goods from me. Normally he walks in 123, and I'll sell it to you for 111. Super Offer. Then this entrepreneur can say great, I'll be happy to buy it from you, but I'll pay you in the split payment mechanism, okay? No, in the split payment mechanism it is not - says this counterparty. And that's the turkey that says something's not right. [[Why doesn't he speak?]] That's why he says no because he sells for 111. That means he doesn't pay VAT. [[Exactly.]] This is a situation that was additionally built up by the mechanism introduced by us so-called. White lists, i.e. very extensive information on who is a registered VAT taxable person. [[That's not true.]] In 2015, it was possible to check whether the VAT number was a VAT number. It was possible to verify that the invoice NIP number was registered as a VAT taxable person. Yeah, he's a registered VAT payer. That's it. In the systems we've put in place when it comes to the so-called. Black list, we have information on who's been crossed out. The counterparty can see that it is this VAT account that this company has been deleted, why it has been deleted. Did she stop working and then resume her business because she didn't make VAT returns for six months? Something's not right. This is additional information for entrepreneurs, additional security for them not to enter into such agreements. We intend to introduce a compulsory split payment mechanism in areas that are very vulnerable to VAT fraud. We intend to enter an even improved white list, where full information will be provided, the whole history of VAT registration with the account numbers to which the company accepts VAT. There will also be so-called. Split account, which means there will already be a full case giving 100 percent certainty. If we look at this new, expanded white list, we'll be clear. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u358	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. The list of Members shall contain 20 names. I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. The first Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u359	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The opposition often claims that it introduced a single control file, so-called. JPK, and it was their idea. Please indicate whether the JPK was actually introduced in 2015 or whether the solution introduced at that time is different from the one currently used, introduced in 2016. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u360	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u361	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, tax revenues in Poland have been growing significantly in recent years, but if we wanted to think deeper for a moment about why this increase would have to be noted, first of all, that we have economic growth and that tax revenues are extremely procyclical, which means that in times of economic growth, they are growing faster than this growth. This is also a warning about what can happen when there is a slowdown, when these revenues can grow much slower. These today's higher tax revenues are also the result of the actions undertaken by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL, which led the government's programme of activities that sealed the tax system and improved the efficiency of the tax administration adopted in 2014. The impact of this scheme was very clear, annual, since 2017 it was PLN 17.5 billion - so much higher was the revenue of the state budget. [[Applause]] But these higher tax revenues are also to some extent the effect of the tax increases you have introduced and the new taxes, and finally the PiS activities in this area. There are actually a lot of them, they are to some extent a continuation, but there are also negligence and omissions. Such a flagship example, very disturbing, is the Central Register of Invoices. Concept 2015 Then there were the assurances of Minister Shamacha, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister Skiba, that this programme will continue, that the online invoice register will become a fact - 3 billion a month. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u362	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u363	Just one word, Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u364	No, sir, it is very late, there is a delay. You have to stick to the discipline of time. [[Speech outside the microphone, applause]] Are you an MP? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, There is a committee of inquiry dealing with the VAT gap. The issue of extortion of this tax is often present in the media. Can you specifically indicate the figures on the government's activities in this area? Do VAT revenues increase? Isn't this growth the result of inflation? Since prices are rising, the tax included in the price of goods also increases. [[It's true.]] We are also hearing about sealing the entire tax system, but maybe an increase in tax revenue is due to the economic economy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u366	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u367	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like some details. Mrs Masłowska said about VAT gap, PLN 250.400 billion. Show one example, big, 10, 20, 50 billion PLN, then we will believe you. And that's how you manipulate economic growth with 30 new taxes and tributes. Act implementing the JPK - 2015 It was the Civic Platform that introduced this solution in September. Effects in 2018, because that's what we asked... Comprehensive analysis, 175 analyses. Returns on sealing in total in 2016 and 2017 are PLN 176 million, in 2018 - PLN 268 million, not billion, and in the first half of 2018 - the amount of tax due by 574 million. It's not a VAT refund, it's an adjustment. Second thing. Critical applications, established company. You didn't do it. You're putting in a lot of money without that mechanism. Finally, STIR, facts and myths. Introduced in 2018. With the number of taxpayers and the need to provide full information - 20 blockades in 2018 for 12 entities, for the amount of PLN 6 million. And when it comes to extending the blocking time over 72 hours - 17 locks. What are you talking about? If you're talking about 240, 400 billion, show me one subject. And as for the fact that it is economical, there is economic growth, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's assume that Poles pay. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u368	Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u369	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would not, of course, like to step into the Minister's shoes, because he will respond in detail in a moment, but, as far as the specifics are concerned, Mrs, the 500+ programme, 500 PLN for the second child, and now 500 PLN for the first child as well... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But this isn't VAT...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u370	Member, please don't shout.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u371	Thirteen for pensioners, those are the specifics you're asking about because the money came in. And the money, as one of your ministers said, wasn't meant to be. Well, you've got a pretty good idea about that. You have to read the rest, but I can see there's a problem with that. [[But we're talking about Vata.]] Back to the questions about the tax. Minister, a possibility was introduced on 1 January 2009 that any entity that registers may account for itself in quarterly form. As it turned out, taxpayers used it meticulously because these companies, these pillars... It could have been used to make a company like this. After a quarter she didn't have to account, she could shut down the business. It was a period needed to participate in financial carousels. So I have a question for you. Minister, did the limitation of the possibility of quarterly accounting improve tax collection, improve the functioning of honest, reliable Polish taxpayers? Does the Ministry have any calculations? As to whether it really was a step in the right direction? Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to talk about the anti-tax avoidance clause. As the Minister mentioned, it was introduced in mid-2016 in July. The projector predicted in the OSR that the revenues through the clause would amount to about PLN 100 million per year, in the first period less. According to the Ministry of Finance, according to the reply given to the parliamentary request, one proceeding was concluded between 15 July 2016 and 30 September 2018 and resulted in an impact of 530 thousand. PLN plus 70,000. interest. So instead of 100 million, we had, ladies and gentlemen, 600 million. What's going on? [[600,000.]] So the flap's complete. The Ministry is making changes. The Ministry doesn't say that the flap is complete, it just says that the changes are meant to serve a fuller implementation of the rules, to further limit aggressive optimization, so it says it's good and it's going to be even better. So I'm asking if and why they tried to hide it, because nowhere in the materials was there a word about this failure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u374	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u375	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The so-called phenomenon of fiscal services was known as the pathology of fiscal services until 2015. breeding arrangements. At the time, the tax inspection offices were premiered for the amounts of the findings made. It caused that, for example. checks were prolonged indefinitely during which the entity continued to carry on its criminal activities, thereby increasing the amounts of the definitive finding. The final findings from which the entity did not appeal were highly valued, most often because it was a pillar without any assets. The amounts of irregularities found were impressive and were the basis for the payment of the premium, and only after the transfer of the decision to be executed did it turn out that a negligible percentage of the funds were actually recovered into the budget. Minister, how did the Ministry, in cooperation with the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, end this pathology? Second question, Minister. There's a technological revolution going on in front of our eyes. Many of us today have a phone in our pockets. A question for the Minister. Are the government, the Ministry of Finance and tax law following this revolution? One more answer for the Member who kept bragging about the uniform control file. The single control file was not put into effect until July 2016. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u376	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When in previous terms we introduced various legislative solutions, which Poland also benefits from today, unfortunately they were not supported by today's rulers. They usually held back so safely from the vote. [[Applause]] As for today's fight against the gray zone, crime, you have told me, my previous speakers, how the VAT investigation committee does this. I'd say the committee also sees things on the basis of the documents we're getting. One interesting story, which has already been mentioned in the committee, also shows not exactly the clear role of one of the European Parliamentarians of Law and Justice, who contacts an entrepreneur who has problems with VAT, meets him three times in luxury hotels - I am talking about Richard Czarnecki - and then gives him a phone call to Ernest Bejda, Ernest Bejda meets him, and then there are several meetings at CBA. Ernest Beida met him at least once, because this interested entrepreneur also confirmed it. The person who arranged this meeting - in other files we have information, another witness claims so - took a million zlotys for such favors. So as not to be literal - I am talking about the VAT committee - I will quote a passage from this statement. In August 2016 - without names I will speak - Kinga met me with Krzysztof. Krzysztof met me with Vice-President Richard Czarnecki of the European Parliament. I've seen him three times. One meeting was at the Sobieski Hotel, one at the Sheraton Hotel, and one at the Mercure Hotel. I told Mr. Czarnecki what the problem was. In the second meeting, I gave Mr. Czarnecki a letter, which he later wrote to Prime Minister Szydło as a MEP. At the third meeting, Mr. Czarnecki gave me a call to the head of the CBA, which I went to for a meeting. In other statements another witness: From Jadwiga I know that Grzegorz paid Krzysztof 1 million PLN. Ladies and gentlemen! Now that you're talking about fighting the VAT mafia, fighting VAT crime, it's worth getting your ranks together, especially as it concerns the MEP, and we're just ahead of the Europarliament elections. Thank you. I filed a notice... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u378	Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is a great deal of talk in the public debate about VAT refunds, among others. is such a allegation that the stagnation of the VAT revenue in the years 2008 to 2015 and its subsequent dynamic growth after 2016, are mainly the result of the economic downturn and are actually minor in connection with the sealing operation. Is it therefore true, Minister, that the increase in VAT revenue in recent years has been several times higher than the rate of economic growth or the rate of increase in consumption, i.e. clearly indicates the effectiveness of sealing measures and that the fight against tax fraud was correct? And I have one more question, Minister. They ask questions about the VAT gap and questions about excise duties. I have a question about income taxes. Is this an area free of irregularities? In the past we have heard about people and companies hiding their income from tax. I mean, for example, a document disclosed under the so-called. Paradise Papers. Does the government work in any way in the area of income taxes to address irregularities in this area? And what are the consequences of this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u380	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Tax Administration Act has been in force for over two years. In introducing it, the head of this service, Marian Banas, assured that this reform was intended to stabilise and promised that there would be no layoffs. So? Reality has shown something completely different. It turned out that this reform primarily serves staff cleansing and mass job reduction. It was intended to lead to the creation of strong organisational units of the National Tax Administration based on the substantive staff, and in practice the result of it is a wave of redundancies, about 5 thousand. persons, and the reduction of posts and salaries. Over 3.5,000. Officers have been civilized. The reform certainly did not bring stability to the tax administration either. Personal growth, chaos in offices, leaving work or serving people with great knowledge and experience, loss of state budget. This is the stabilization? Instead of helping, the reform has led to weakening and instability, to baseless redundancies, degradation of skills and reliable knowledge, to nepotism, lower professionalism of the service and civilization process, which is not known in civilised countries and is at odds with fundamental constitutional rights of man and citizen. The negative effects of the reform are also felt for the judiciary, as dissatisfied officials and employees flooded the courts with complaints and actions. In total, it is over 1,400 complaints and more than 450 actions. And that's the real impact of this wonderful reform of yours two years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u382	Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In mid-2016, the Ministry set up a company of Critical Applications to equip the Ministry with analytical programmes to better control tax information: detect illegal returns, detect avoidance of payment, type operators to control, i.e. provide analytical tools to improve the functioning of the tax system. Well, as always, with the establishment of such a company, which in this case 100% ownership is the property of the State Treasury, supervisory boards are created, boards, premises, equipment are needed. All of this entails the right costs. I wanted to ask you, however, what are the effects of this company's operation. From various information it appears that she did not carry out those tasks which she was supposed to carry out in 2017, in 2018, that what she did is incompatible with other databases and systems operating in the Ministry of Finance, that she pulled employees from the Ministry of Finance who were supposed to carry out these tasks as part of their normal activities, and now they do it in the company - either they do or they do not. And although the Ministry does not do it, neither the Ministry does it nor the company does it. In a word, it entails significant costs, it actually raises the wages of the ministry's employees, because they go through or even perform various functions in the supervisory board, and some may even combine one job with another, while the results are negligible after fasting. As if you could respond to what was supposed to be done by this company and what it did and if we really don't have a weak functioning there, and a lot of money goes for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u384	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u385	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In recent years, there has been a parallel increase in social expenditure, a reduction in taxes and a very low budget deficit. Minister, is it true that it would not be possible without sealing the system and redirecting tens of billions of zlotys from pockets simply to taxpayers, to the Polish budget? I have another question, about such basic, good experiences related to the creation of the National Tax Administration and the merger of the former tax services with the customs office. What exactly did the creation of such an institution bring? Because from my experience and from the information that comes to me, it appears that the combination of these two institutions has a real impact on the impact on the financial system that the fiscal system has clearly been better sealed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u386	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u387	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to start by saying that the situation of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki and the situation of PiS is tragic, because after these speeches today one can only say one thing: that and PiS, and the government began to believe in its own propaganda, the one practiced for over 3 years. Unfortunately, you're running out of term and you're running out of results. you do not see, but the figures that you have given here are still estimates. You guys are acting like Tey's famous cabaret joke: How much? 50, 80, 120, I'm gonna say piñcet without a goat. Where's the VAT gap? We need to get specific documents. I'm gonna say something about the National Tax Administration and what you've done with the National Tax Administration, because if you look at the numbers that have already been hard-counted, you look a little bad, Minister. I'm taking the official document in which the National Tax Administration, your officials, wanted to show off. Well? I can read something about the fuel package that there were 1000 effective controls on fuel smuggling, and as a result of these controls, 140 thousand were recovered. And illegal fuel. You could finish the first grade of elementary school and quickly count it as 140 l per check. That's how much the tractor's got in the tank, [[Applause]] Not in a tanker. Minister, to be clear, this is in the same document: there have been over 1,100 effective checks on alcohol smuggling. How much alcohol was stopped? 5400 l. That's 4.9. Did you women with nets stop or who? [[Applause]] [[What about prevention? What about fear?]] That's what it looks like. You reformed the tax administration over two years ago, kicked out good people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And now you've got these...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u388	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u389	...who can't even boast. And if you think all this... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u390	Mr President, please kindly end your statement. Mr... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u391	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u392	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u393	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before 2015, the offence of falsifying an invoice and extorting an undue refund was not well described in the Penal Code. General rules could be applied on fraud offences or forgery of documents. Moreover, the Supreme Court's rulings have disseminated a judicial line according to which, in the case of such offences, the Tax Code was to be treated as a lex specialis against the Criminal Code, resulting in the fact that in practice for criminal activities leading to extortion of tens and hundreds of millions of zlotys, there was a ridiculously low penalty, a prison sentence suspended or fined, while for example. 25 years of imprisonment for counterfeiting the banknote. It was powerful, I would say, a disproportion that gave indescribable possibilities for criminal action. Is it true, Minister, that you have entered into the Penal Code so-called. The VAT crime under penalty of up to 25 years in prison allowed for adequate punishment... [[Finally.]] ...the perpetrators of multimillion-dollar extortion? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u394	Mr Lech Kołakowski, Law and Justice. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u395	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have questions about the Central Register of Invoices - CRS. The opposition claims that we did not implement the CRS, in which all invoices would be reported in real time. Did work on the implementation of the CRS last before 2016? Was there a specific CRS technology? Have there been attempts to obtain a derogation in this regard? Has this solution been implemented in one of the European Union's countries or in the world? Do we have a CRS right now? Minister, my next questions are about social expenses and taxes. In recent years, there has been a parallel increase in social expenditure, a reduction in taxes and a very low budget deficit. Is it true that such rapid implementation would seem to be counterproductive targets as simultaneously reducing taxes, increasing expenditure and reducing deficits would not be possible without sealing the system and redirecting tens of billions of zlotys from the mob's pockets to the Polish budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u396	Mrs Urszula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish government, the Government of Law and Justice, has been very successful in the fight against the grey zone in the fuel industry. Many factors have contributed to this success, among others. Accelerate VAT sealing, energy package, fuel package, transport, as well as the creation of the National Tax Administration. Polish success in the fight against the grey zone in fuels was noted, noticed also abroad and aroused interest in our solutions such as countries. Germany, Lithuania, Switzerland. How much are we talking about? We're talking about a huge amount because it's estimated to be over 10 billion a year. This was the result of a gray fuel zone. That money went into private pockets. Now they're going to the state budget. How much money did it take, Minister, to rip out crime groups and give them to Polish families? I understand why this opposition attack on the government of the United Right. How did it happen, ladies and gentlemen, that under the Platform and PSL government, despite the tax increase, contrary to what your Donald Tusk leader said, and the overeating of the OFE money had lower revenue to the budget? With VAT alone, it's almost 57 billion. But my question, Minister, is this. It's known that criminals don't sleep and have new ideas. Are new legislative solutions being prepared to prevent further drains of resources from the fuel industry? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u398	Mr Marcin Duszek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u399	Dear Marshal, Minister! For the Government of Law and Justice the priority was and is the economic development of Poland. This is only possible through fair competition. As could be said about fair competition if, according to the Ministry of Finance, between 2008 and 2015, under the PO-PSL regime, the VAT gap amounted to about PLN 250 billion. The European Commission's statistics also show that the VAT gap in 2015 alone was close to 25% in Poland, which means that about PLN 40 billion was not affected by the state budget. One of the first issues was the preparation and introduction of a package of solutions such as the establishment of the National Tax Administration and the improvement of service efficiency. It deserves recognition that we can talk about success not only in the collection of VAT but also in the case of income taxes. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister the following questions. Minister, since the reduction in CIT for small companies was associated with an increase in revenues from this, is it considered to restore a 20% VAT rate? Economic criminals are often active in many countries, and cooperation between individual countries of the European Union is also crucial. Does the government plan and what actions in the fight against VAT fraud? And last question: How much is the VAT gap currently estimated? And yet, if I may, I would like to add that the PO-KO Members are asking, questioning, questioning the existence of a VAT gap, saying that, as a rule, 140 l falls for one control. In the meantime, I would like to say that if these checks had not been carried out, there would still be a belief that there are no controls. Then it would be like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As before and then we would certainly lose not hundreds, but millions of gallons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u400	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! ♪ To this sad gallery ♪ These various errors, omissions, omissions - some ask a dramatic question, whether involuntary, it is very sad, but such hypotheses also sometimes arise - I would like to add two examples, two cases of what happened. Namely, this was the practice, the phenomenon of the lack of joint and several liability of the importers' representatives in cases where this representation, e.g. the customs agency was of a direct nature. A solid responsibility was only for indirect representation, and it was a fact and a practice. The question is, what have we done with this, what do we want to do next, how do we work to change these terrible situations. And a second example. The aim was to avoid liability by the importer merely submitting a VAT declaration on the date of the VAT declaration-7, in a situation where no tax was paid, or to compensate for the fictitious transaction invoice which allowed the majesty to do so. Those are the two questions. What action do we take to close this gap or exactly these gaps, right? On the other hand, using the benefits of 2 minutes, I will ask you a question that is at my heart, whether it is monitored just this split payment, because for small companies, small companies that do not have liquidity, they do not yet have this accumulation of capital, they are on the acquis, but for them it is often difficult. The point is whether there are considerations and, as a result, may change the law to facilitate this, while maintaining the principle of the law, namely that. KAS... I'm against discretion, but for example. The tax administration could have some companies that are reliable, they pay bills, three years are on the market... Why them, for example? For six months they don't give, but every time they have to turn? I think it was discussed at the drafting stage of the bill, but I repeat this so as not to lose sight of important things. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u402	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u403	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Civic Platform took over with PSL in November 2007. She took over and took over the budget, quite nice, which prepared Law and Justice. The governments started with the PO and PSL since early pensions were not extended for a long period of work, the funeral allowance was reduced and then VAT was increased, the retirement age was extended, the funds from the Demographic Reserve Fund, which was intended to serve future pensions, were taken out of the OFE 150 billion. And so, in turn, all the activities of the Platform that were, were to take away people and give nothing in return. I would also like to remind you that the Civic Platform has been frozen in its budget for eight years. At the time when the Law and Justice re-entered governments in 2015, unfortunately the budget was indebted, because I will add that at that time loans were taken in commercial banks for the payment of pensions, that recently the case was won by pensioners born in 1953, because it reached here, introducing a restriction, to the bill, to take back the rights that had already been acquired. In 2016, when we started paying 500+, we restored the old retirement age, started to raise, including the budget, the services, and there were the first increases for teachers. Minister! If I hear here that the amounts are being questioned, estimates that there is even a questionable VAT gap, please tell me: Where did this money come from in the last 3 years that it has decreased [[♪ The bell ♪]] The deficit, and the money goes to the people? Did somebody win the lottery? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u404	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Would your applicant's representative like to speak? I can't see. Therefore, undersecretary of state in the Ministry of Finance Mr Filip Świtała. We're very late, Minister. I'd like to ask... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: How much time do I have, Marshal?]] Three minutes. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: 3 minutes?]] [[No, no, please don't...]] In what mode? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to those few Members who, after questioning, did not escape the room and are ready to hear the answers. [[Applause]] [[Well done for these Members.]] So that in this situation I think I should start by asking Mrs Krystyna Skowronska. It's kind of my bow to... [[Thank you very much, thank you.]] She asked the question of how it is that we have introduced so many different systems, and there are no spectacular successes in giving someone 50 million dollars of tax. Member, that is not the point. The point is, the system forces people to pay the right amounts. They make correct declarations in mass and pay the correct tax in mass, and that's what the billions come out of. At the same time, the same system defends against unfair mass returns, unfair fraud of this tax, and unfair tax optimizations. That's what the billions come from. They don't come from the fact that the KAS is coming and they're gonna make some spectacular multimillion-dollar tax. They come from the fact that we have system methods that make this tax paid on a daily basis in the correct amount. [[It's paid.]] I have very little time, so I'm very sorry, but unfortunately I'm not going to answer all the questions. First of all, I would like to show you some numbers. Namely these numbers look something like this. As a result of our efforts to seal the VAT gap between 2016 and 2018, the gap has been significantly reduced. And that refers to concrete, objective facts. Namely, there is such a thing as a theoretical VAT commitment. These are the statistically calculated figures, how much VAT should affect the budget. You take into account consumption, you get the right rates, and you get about... [[Respect.]] ...an estimate, an estimate of the amount that we should receive. And then we look at how much it's affected us. The VAT base increased by 16.8% between 2016 and 2018. This means that this overall base, this consumption on the basis of which VAT is calculated, increased by 16.8%. On the other hand, VAT revenues increased by 42,1% over the same period. [[Applause]] [[Numbers don't lie.]] This is twice as much as the growth rate of consumption. [[Hard facts.]] So the growth rate of VAT revenues - 42,1% , and the growth rate of consumption - 16.8 . [[Yes, sir.]] There's a lot of references here, too. That's why the tax is growing, and that's why tax revenue is growing, because overall the economy is growing, and the economy is growing. Of course, this effect cannot be underestimated, the economy is developing very well. [[Also, among other things.]] Yeah. [[And that's something to be happy about.]] But I can't show it to you, but I can give it to you and I'll give it to you. This is the dynamics of the growth of the theoretical VAT commitment, this orange line interrupted. On the other hand, the blue line is the dynamics of the increase in VAT revenues according to the European Union methodology ESA 2010. [[When I saw the falcon, I saw it.]] There's a graphical show here, as the gap closes. Year 2012, years 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018. And again, these are VAT revenues according to the committee's methodology... I'll give it all to you. [[Hardcover.]] This is a theoretical commitment, which is what we're counting according to the CUS. And this narrowing tunnel here This is the VAT gap. [[Voice from the room: Theoretical.]] [[So the difference between theory and practice.]] The difference between the actual influences that we actually got, cashily, and what is... I mean. the gap that was then in 2012. [[Between respect and influence.]] This is the space. That was 40 billion. It is now, as we estimate, in 2008, 23, but in 2017 there were 28 more. So you can see that these estimates show a reduction. Here's a very nice graph, and I'll give it to you too. This is the VAT gap as a percentage of GDP. Of course 2018 is estimated - we know, we have not yet counted it - but in 2017 we already have very reliable data. So here's the thing: in 2012, the gap was 2.5%. GDP. [[The GDP implications, not the gap you've calculated.]] [[Let the minister answer, we're curious about the answers.]] That's objective. Here we refer to objective facts, to GDP that is changing, GDP is growing... VAT Luka-owska in 2013 amounted to 2,4% GDP, in 2014 - 2,3% GDP, in 2015 - 2.2% GDP, in 2016 - 1.9% GDP. [[May I? Yes, you can.]] In 2017, 1,4% GDP, in 2018,1.1% GDP. But the coolest table is at the end. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I have also compiled hard data from 2006 to 2018, except that, of course, data from 2018 are estimated. In 2006, growth was 6.2%, 1% gap GDP. Growth of 7% in 2007 , the gap is only 0.8% GDP. Suddenly in 2008 there is an increase 4.2% GDP, but the gap is 1.5%. In 2009, the gap was 1.8% , GDP growth - 2.8%. The year 2011 is very interesting. In 2011 GDP growth was 5% , but the gap - 1,9 . [[And who was in charge then?]] I've already told you what the gap was between 2015 and 2016. You also asked about income taxes. Professor Nykiel asked about income taxes, about how GAAR works. He laughed that only one case using GAAR had been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is wrong reasoning again, because GAAR doesn't work that way that - sorry, I'm using slang... [[Don't teach. He's sitting here driving.]] ...general clause against tax avoidance. It doesn't work that way that we catch someone, we measure them, and we get an extra $3 million out of it. There won't be a billion-dollar budget revenue out of this. But to economic operators, which, for example, they draw up financial statements, the auditor will come and say: I will not give you an opinion approving the financial statements because I suspect that you have used unfair practices and may apply a clause to you. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] And it's happening on a massive scale. Thanks to this, our income tax revenue has increased incredibly, i.e. We have something that just gives us a total surprise. In 2018, there was a record increase in CIT revenues of almost 16%. [[Even we find that hard to believe.]] Thus, in 2018 there was a GDP increase of around 5%. The tax rates didn't go up, did they? Ba, they decreased because in 2018 the rate for so-called. Small CIT. So it was 15%. CIT for small CIT taxpayers, and yet we have a 16 percent increase in CIT income. Because, of course, we also have a 15% increase in PIT revenue, but we can say, well, employment is growing because the economy is going crazy, so okay, we have this growth. The fact that we have this kind of growth from CIT, that is, among other things. Thanks to GAAR and the actions we are taking. We're running out of time, but can I ask for one more minute, two minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u406	Minister, I've asked for some shortening, and you've said 10 minutes. [[We can't ask, can you?]] Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Then I'll just read it at the end. Today we received the NIK report on the gap. Following the control against VAT fraud, NIK assessed that the projects carried out by the Minister of Finance prove that the Minister is consistently implementing the strategy of sealing the tax system. Improving the efficiency of the tax system in preventing fraud, in addition to economic prosperity, has led to a clear increase in revenue from goods and services tax in 2017. [[♪ The bell ♪]] VAT revenues increased faster in 2017 than would result from the growth rate of the macroeconomic base. [[Applause]] [[An extremely valuable opinion. Bravo, Minister.]] Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda... [[I asked to be corrected. In correction mode, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[You still have time.]] And you didn't use it? [[I'd like to speak.]] Please? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, I know everything. Only I asked about the Member and you did not come forward. [[And I signed up to correct it.]] And what were you trying to correct? [[The Minister's misunderstood speech.]] [[But the Minister didn't quote anything.]] [[Of course. If you'd listened...]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u407	Mr. Marshal! Membership! I would like to thank the Members who have made it so far, when this item on the agenda is being considered, on such an important issue. It is sad, however, that the opposition cannot appreciate concrete achievements, which are very beneficial for all Poles, for our economy, that it is still looking for reasons to discredit these achievements. Because he says we're lying, that it's a lie, that we believed it ourselves. So if we are lying, then perhaps you will believe the European Commission, which I think you generally trust very much. Please take a look at the European Commission report of February this year, where it is clear that the highest increase in VAT/GDP ratio in the European Union is in Poland. Here you go. Here's the chart. It is this yellow, high pole, so high reaching over all the countries of the European Union. Maybe they didn't let us fool you. [[Are you sure it's from the Union?]] We also hear that it is due to economic growth and so on. Of course I do. Economic growth is not without influence, but GDP has also increased in the years 2008 and 2016. [[And we took care of that.]] And what happened to the budget receipts back then? In 2013, 2015 and 2016, VAT fell to a minimum of 6,8% even though you raised the VAT rate in 2011. He reached the lowest level - 6,8% - just in 2015. [[You're confusing pears with apples.]] In our reign, in these last 2 years, we have: 8.3 , in the last year, and 7.9%. So let us not ignore these achievements and the merits, which are here the evident result of sealing. If there are no arguments, then the opposition says it wasn't your fault, we did it. Today there have been such speeches, you often use them, the PO state, that you have introduced JPK. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, JPK is not due to the Platform, PiS, because this is an idea recommended by the OECD in 2010 - in 2010. The idea was that by electronic exchange of accounting data for control purposes, this check should be organised to make it more efficient and cheaper. Two stages are scheduled. And on the first one, who with control, with the sealing of the tax system really doesn't have so much to do with it, you stopped. Namely, such solutions were implemented there, that if the books are kept by economic operators using computer programs, the tax authority may request that these books be transmitted by electronic communication. You've only systematized the types of costs. It wasn't a seal. The seal was only in the second stage, in 2016, when the current government introduced the JPK on a monthly basis the obligation to transfer the file to supervisory authorities. And that's because of this government. You're talking about a tax avoidance clause. Such work was undertaken in your governments, in 2014, when this clause was tried to implement. Then, in 2015, the Council of Ministers postponed the examination of the project and then adopted it only after excluding the anti-tax avoidance clause. The project she was in was adopted, but then she was withdrawn. In addition, STIR - this is also 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have much time, but I have gone to the trouble of carefully analysing your contribution to legislation related to the genuine sealing of the tax system. I have already mentioned two cases, but this concerns many, many other issues. I mean, if it's like... That's what we talked about. That's what you didn't do. As far as the sealing package is concerned, only some solutions have been developed by you in January 2015. Listen, Members of the Civic Platform, because we will find out at the next meeting that you have done this. Well, in January 2015 some rules were presented regarding the sealing package, but they did not take the form of a specific draft legislative act at the time. These were solutions: eliminating the possibility for certain categories of taxable persons to use quarterly accounts, refusing to register entities as VAT payers and removing taxable persons from the VAT register, introducing an obligation to submit a VAT return. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this project was prepared only in December 2015. You've only signalled such problems. So either you signaled, and then you put it off and didn't do anything about it, or you had these projects actually, but you hid them, just like Mrs Leszczyn said in public...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u408	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u409	...so the PiS won't steal those designs from you. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And you might ask, where is the Anti-Liquid Act you've been cooking up since the campaign?]] [[Voice from the room: corrected, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u410	Thank you very much, Member. Excuse me. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law amending the Law Code of Administrative Procedure (Print No 3144). I ask Senator Jan Rulewski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, in what mode do you want me to address you like I can't?]] But, Member, what were you trying to straighten out? [[I wanted to correct it. If you understood the subject we're talking about...]] I quite understand, but I don't see the reason or the possibility of starting correction, because you were mentioned only at the beginning, it was like thanking you for asking a question. [[But it was pointed out there, there was a whole statement...]] You're welcome, Senator. [[I think I'll write you a letter someday.]] You're welcome. I'm sure I'll write you back, my fellow Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Senate, I would like to present to you a legislative initiative, which was taken on the basis of a petition of citizens, especially those citizens who are abroad, who have obligations to communicate with national administrations in Poland. The point is that the current provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure, in particular Article. 57 § 5, create many problems. These problems are based on the fact that such citizens are not treated equally with citizens living in Poland. These regulations say that the shipment given by a non-Polish operator - usually meant Polish Post - is not considered to be given in an important way. As a result, if the shipment did not arrive on the scheduled date, although it was already in Poland, then the citizen could simply lose a lot of rights resulting from decisions taken by public administrations. Therefore, the initiative aims to ensure that Polish citizens residing outside Poland, especially within the European Union and the countries concerned The European Economic and EFTA Area has been treated in the field of mailing as citizens in the territory of Poland. In other words, the date of delivery at the office of the designated postal operator in the European Union plus those other countries should be recognised on an equal basis with the date of delivery in Poland. Although the law has so far allowed a possibility and even sometimes created an obligation, the point is that Polish citizens who are abroad, where contact with public administrations is required, should establish a proxy. This would, of course, fill in the wording of the article. 57 § 5. However, this created problems, including financial problems. Another solution allowed us to use the help of the Polish consulate in the area of the country where the citizen is present and to send a package which would be honored in terms of time limits. It's the only thing that's got two ailments. One - that you need to be close to this consulate, and in some countries there are no Polish consulates in the European Union. But a second ailment - that this operation cost 20 euros. So that, as a result, the Senate has adopted the initiative which it is proposing to the High House to adopt, which exhausts the signs of equality, eliminates discrimination. There is also a certain implementation of the provisions of the European Parliament and of a regulation of the European Union which believes that there should be no discrimination against citizens of the European Union on grounds of nationality. As far as the opinion process is concerned, all the institutions covered by the opinion have given a positive opinion. The most interested, of course, Polish Post has also issued a positive opinion, but also a particularly hot Supreme Bar Council, Chamber of Chambers and Ministry of Finance, including the Ministry of Finance, so it can be seen from this that this project is not the implementation of European Union legislation nor is it contrary, of course, as I pointed out earlier, to European Union legislation. Thus, Mr Marshal, I believe that the project is suitable for presenting to the High House and proceeding in it with the intention of accepting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u412	Thank you very much, Senator. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Members Bartłomiej Wróblewski, the Law and Justice Club, Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Coalition Club, Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party Club, Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, and Małgorzata Zwiergan, the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle. All those mentioned submitted their votes in writing. We have one question for you. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform Club, with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know why everyone's in such a hurry tonight. Today's project should be considered as positive. However, I wanted to ask you why we have waited so long for this amendment. The draft amendment is the result of a petition to the Senate on 24 November 2017. It took more than a year to prepare an amendment which had already been in force in other criminal, civil and judicial procedures. For example, in civil proceedings, the provision giving such an opportunity entered into force on 17 August 2013. Such differences between procedures make the law inconsistent. Are there any other measures being taken to harmonise procedures to the extent possible? This is extremely important and bad that it took so long. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u414	Thank you, Member. The senator will answer, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Messenger! In fact, you're right, but I answer the question of why everyone's in such a hurry today. 'Cause maybe they have to send shipments with a deadline from tomorrow. But seriously: I believe that the deadline for working on the petition was quite short in the Senate, and I think it will also be competitive in the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-15-sejm-78-3.u416	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. (EFTA) - Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. (EFTA) - Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. (EFTA). in such a way that the sending of a letter in a post office of a universal postal service provider in another Member State of the European Union is equal to the sending of a letter in a Polish post office. It is worth adding that the civil, criminal and judicial administrative procedure already takes into account the possibility of sending a letter to a post office in another country belonging to the European Union. (EFTA). Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are addressed by the Senate draft law amending the Act Code of Administrative Procedure contained in print No 3144 to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 78th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have not come forward to make statements. So we're done here. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. That concludes the 78th session of the Sejm. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 79th session of the Sejm, scheduled for 3 and 4 April 2019, will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you very much. [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 16 min 59]]
