ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u1	I open the 80th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. To the secretaries of the sitting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Shh. ... ...I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Robert Dowhan. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Robert Dowhan. Mr. Secretary, please take your seats at the president's table. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 1980s second meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 80th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. High Senate, I inform you that on 29 July 2019 the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Senate about the implementation in 2018 of the Act of 9 June 2011 on supporting the family and the foster care system. This document is contained in print No 1272. On 2 August 2019 I sent information to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The committees took note of the document and informed me of it. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items 1 to 18 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's an objection. There's an objection. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, this is not on my part any obstruction or attempt to block the Senate's activities. I would just like to point out that this has become a rule in a passing term. There used to be two, three points like that, right now we have... But, Senator, are you reporting... Yeah, I object, and I motivate him. For what? Plus, to proceed in the mode that you proposed to the marshal. So against the wishes of your fellow senators, who asked me to shorten the deadline for committee meetings to be held today and yesterday, right? Yes, sir. I'd like to return... Okay, I get it. I'd just like to point out... So next time, I won't grant such permission to the senators. I would just like to point out that this is happening again and it has become a rule in this term, that we are proceeding in this way, in a way that is extraordinary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u3	As for all points is this conclusion, right? All points. Okay, well, then, because there's a vote of objection, we're gonna vote. Who is in favour... of my proposal to consider items from the first to the eighteenth draft agenda, even though the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure? So who's in favour of my offer? Who's in favour of Senator Pociej's proposal? Please report the results. 69 senators voted, 50 for, 19 against. [[Voting No 1]] I just want to... The senator's motion was rejected. I would just like to inform you that this is due to the conclusions that come to me, to the marshal, to the chairmen of the committee, so that the committees meet either on the day of the beginning of the session or the day before. So I agree, and the senator, if he were a marshal, wouldn't agree, I understand. But that's another thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the following points: the 11th, concerning the Law amending the Postal Law and the Telecommunication Law and consider this item as item 1 of the agenda; the twelfth concerning the Law amending the Rail Transport Act and considering it as item 2 of the agenda; the 21st concerning information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance and considering this item as item 3 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There isn't. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Ladies and gentlemen... The senator would like to speak. And in what mode? I'd like to report... I can't hear you. You can't hear me. It'll be a minute, Senator. I'll tell you when you can file a request and you should report it. There's still time to talk about it. There's still time. I propose that a joint debate be held on points six, i.e. Public procurement law, and the seventh law, i.e. The law introducing the law. Public procurement law. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u4	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I would like to make a request to supplement the agenda with a point on your Marshal's information on the incident in the Sejm in connection with the criminal threats of one of the members of the Marshal's Guard. I would ask for information on the security situation of Members and Senators in relation to such an incident. And shouldn't the law adopted in 2018 be re-examined as to the possibilities given to the Marshal's Guard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u5	Thank you very much. And is it a conclusion that I should present such information... Yes. ...as Marshal of the Senate? Good. I'm against it because this is no place for this... We can, of course, meet at the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee under some other circumstances. I'll report... Mr. Marshal is the highest authority in the Senate. Yeah, but we also have order... I'm against it. Okay, we're gonna vote right now... Yeah, okay. ...senator's motion. Who is in favour of bringing the Marshal's information on the Marshal's Guard, the security of Members and Senators to order? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted against, 21 against, 52 against. [[Voting No 2]] The motion was rejected. Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is the settlement of a great competition We are proud in the Senate that such a competition is being held in the Senate under the auspices of the Senate. I would therefore like to remind you... And I propose that we extend the agenda to include a point on the examination of the report of the Joint Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Family and Welfare Code and the Civil Procedure Code and the Criminal Code Act. He's walking around, of course. And I'm reporting it for the fourth or fifth time. It's about the parental alienation bill. What do we look like, deciding this contest if we've blocked such an important bill for hundreds of thousands of fathers? I'd really like to ask the Senate... And this bill is still blocked in the Seym. Nothing happened there despite your assurances that the government project would move independently. I'm asking you to vote this out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u7	Okay, vote out. So we're voting. Who's in favor of the senator's request? Who opposes the proposal? Please report the results. 69 senators voted, 20 for, 49 against. [[Voting No 3]] The motion was rejected. Would any of the senators and senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 80th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of the IXth term of office. Dear Senators, I inform you that the Senior Convention has decided to delete the third day of the session, i.e. 27 September this year, and the appointment of additional days of the meeting, i.e. October 17th and 18th. The meeting will be resumed on 17 October at 12 noon. Today, a break will be announced from 12:00 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. At 12:00 p.m., the opening of the exhibition will take place. German occupation in Kashubach and Kociewi, 1939. At 12.30 in room 217 there will be a solemn announcement of the results of the 5th edition of the competition "List to Dad." Therefore, during the sittings in the meeting room we will host the winners of the competition together with the guardians. Tomorrow, we will begin at 9.00 a.m. with the examination of the 20th and 21st paragraphs, i.e. Report of the National Radio and Television Council and information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018 Let me remind you that according to the article. 85h. A joint debate shall be held on these points in the Senate Rules of Procedure. Then we will consider the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against those repressed as activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. Tomorrow we will also proceed to the examination of the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs and the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States. At 12:00 p.m., of course I'm talking about tomorrow morning, an hour's break will be announced for the opening of the exhibition. Heroes and citizens. Tomorrow at 12:30, I invite you to a joint photograph of the 9th term senators, gathering in the lobby on the ground floor. Depending on the weather there are 2 versions where the photo will be taken. So, please, tomorrow at 12:30 a.m., a joint photo of the 9th term senators, gathering in the lobby on the ground floor. There will be no Senate meeting on Friday at 12:00, but I will inform you of this. The Semper Fidelis exhibition will be opened in the shades of the Senate building. The City of Independent Lviv in graphics. City. Guys, guys, guys, Events. To consider the last point, i.e. reports on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2018, we will proceed during the follow-up of the meeting on 18 October this year. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Post Law and the Telecommunication Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1295, and the committee report In print No 1295 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present to the High House an opinion on the Law amending the Postal Law and the Telecommunication Law. This law aims to ensure the correct application of the Regulation of the European Parliament of 18 April 2018 on cross-border parcel delivery services. This law primarily implements the obligation arising from the abovementioned Regulation of the European Parliament. It shall comply with the obligation for parcel delivery service providers to provide detailed information to the national regulatory authority. And here are enumeratively listed all the information that should be submitted. In accordance with the provisions of the Act on Postal Law, the parcel delivery service provider must provide the information and documents required by this Regulation to the President of the Office for Electronic Communications. In the event of a breach of the obligation to provide such information or documents necessary for the proper execution of this task, the President of the Office of Electronic Communications will be able to impose a fine. And here too are the amounts of these penalties: that's 2%. business income or equivalent of EUR 500 000. The amendment of the act "Telecommunication law" extends the provision specifying the tasks and competences of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications to the tasks arising from the provisions of the Regulation cited above. The bill was submitted by the government. He went through the whole procedure in the Seym. The Sejm adopted this law at its meeting on 30 August 2019. The law, according to the Legal Office, raises no objections. On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour of asking the High House to adopt this law without amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u9	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister, yes or no? Mr. Senator has presented this information so thoroughly, that only if there are questions... Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. Then I will close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held tomorrow following work on all the points scheduled for tomorrow. We proceed with the second agenda: amendment of the Rail Transport Act. The text of the act is contained in print No 1293, and the report of the committee In print No 1293 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, which discussed a draft law amending the Rail Transport Act. The committee was attended by Minister Rafał Weber, who presented the objectives of this law. The Law of 30 August 2019 amending the Rail Transport Act implements the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Court found that Poland violated EU law by failing to take the measures necessary to guarantee the organisational and decision-making independence of the investigating body, the State Commission for the Investigation of Railway Accidents, from the infrastructure manager, PKP PLK, over which ownership supervision is exercised on behalf of the State Treasury by the Minister responsible for Transport. The Court divided the position of the European Commission that the situation in which the State Commission for the Investigation of Rail Accidents performs tasks on behalf of the Minister and is formally an organisational unit serving his office while the Minister for Owner's Supervision of PKP PLK infringes the principle of independence of the national investigating body from the infrastructure manager. In conclusion, the Court has recognised a conflict of interest in the situation of this committee. This committee should be transferred to the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Act raises no legislative objections. One interesting question was asked by Senator Florek. He asked, by analogy, whether the tribunal had no objections to the functioning of such a legal organisation of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission. It turned out that the tribunal had no objections. He's got reservations here, and he's not here, despite the analogy. That's how it works, we have clear evidence of how these tribunals work. The Commission unanimously recommends that the Senate adopt this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? A situation similar to that of point one. Thank you. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone wish to ask the Minister such a question? There are no volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Nobody signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held tomorrow after the agenda has been exhausted. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we need to announce a 10-minute recess because the president of the IPN will be here at 11:30. We weren't expecting that kind of momentum. Is the president of the IPN here yet? There isn't. Then we'll have to wait. He has an appointment at 11:30. So I'm announcing a recess until 11:30. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 20 to 11 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u12	High Senate, resume your session. We proceed with the examination of the third agenda item: information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. The text of the information is contained in print No 1171. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission, at its meeting on 3 June 2019, listened to the information and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the President of the Institute of National Remembrance present at the Senate meeting of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals, Mr Jarosław Szark. Mr. President, I welcome you very warmly. I ask the President to take the floor and present the information. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u13	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The year 2018 was extremely important for the Institute of National Remembrance, because it was the year of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence and most of our actions were focused on this topic. We did not want this anniversary, which is extremely important for our identity, to be reduced to one type of action, to one point, i.e. November 11th. Our main purpose was to rebuild identity, memory, especially local, around this anniversary, and pass it on to the young generation. Therefore, we started our activities already on 5 December 2017 in a small village of the Guardian, in the primary school, where in 1913 there was an officer's school of the Strzelecki Union, through which most of the elite of later Polish Legions passed, headed by Józef Piłsudski and Kazimierz Sosnkowski. After 100 years, the Institute of National Remembrance financed the big glass banner standing in front of this school, a photograph of future legionnaires training in this place, so that the contemporary youth who comes to this school, every day, would meet with them, look at the faces of those of their ancestors who started their great march to independent Poland at this point. But that's why we wanted to show this at this school, because there's been a lot of this happening in other places, that there's also a big story going on in small villages, towns, that there's a lot of history in big cities, but it's about building a local identity around it, because these communities are part of this story, and they have this experience, and they're building this local identity. Much, much stronger is the impact of this story in large centres, where these fragments, the elements of history are more. And there were actions... The album was released devoted to the history of Hungary, i.e. the county city, to the recovery of... heroes from that time. We restore their memory. Thus, such an exhibition of the Independence Fathers, which already in May 2018 we presented simultaneously in dozens of towns in Poland, from Wasilków to Bochnia and Zielona Góra. This exhibition later visited about 300 places in Poland and abroad. There was a gathering of young people or local communities around it, because it was also a moment to extricate local heroes of independence from oblivion. Because we all know the names of the leading heroes, but these heroes of independence of that time - soldiers, teachers, clergymen - often remain forgotten. And the Institute of National Remembrance reminds them in their publications or renewing their graves. We calculated that in 2018 such activities of the National Remembrance Institute's own, related only to the subject of regaining independence, were about 1,000 and activities with external partners - almost 2 thousand. We have not forgotten our fellow countrymen abroad, and we have started our scientific work on this subject much earlier. It was such an idea for the Belgian debates that we started on 5 November 2016, on the 100th anniversary of the act of two emperors. And then every quarter in Belvedere, the greatest historians and scientists met to discuss it. These meetings, these discussions continued. In 2018, four such discussions were held, with a discussion on the subject. A hundred years from the millennium. Roads to the Independent, in the Royal Castle. The most outstanding historians, specialists from all epochs wondered what is the essence of Polishness for a thousand years, which gives strength to the Polish spirit. According to everyone, they said - whether they were medieval researchers or modern history - that this is freedom. And the desire of the Institute of National Remembrance is to pass it on to the young generation and to identify with it. And this story... It was our case that, at a time when it was impossible to talk about it - in times of occupation, partitions, communist captivity - the family was the place where the memory of history survived. And we have just turned to young people to look for souvenirs from their ancestors. We have announced such a competition, aimed at young people, so that they look in their environment, among their ancestors people marked by the Cross of Independence or the Medal of Independence. It was 88,000 people who were decorated for this activity 100 years ago, in the 19th century. Let me put it this way: the final of this competition, which was attended by young people from all over Poland and not only because there were participants and from Lviv, and from the United States... Young people's approach... Indeed, what we assumed happened, somewhere in the drawers, in the closets were found photographs, souvenirs and this Cross of Independence. The young people were proud of it, she talked about the story of her great-grandfathers and said that someone else in the family had it. That's what we want, this intergenerational bond. Moreover, we care about ties not only with Poles in the country, but also with all those who live outside Poland. Hence our idea for Stops History outside Poland, i.e. places where every quarter, every few months our employees come and meet with the school youth, prepare classes for them, teach them in an extremely attractive way, using all the educational aids that the Institute of National Remembrance has - from educational books, from games, from exhibitions. Only in 2018 did we open such stops, operating regularly until today - after New York, because it was there even earlier - in Chicago, then in London, in Zaolzie and in the East in Żytomierz, i.e. on distant Kres, in Lviv, Minsk, in a few weeks' time we open in Dyneburg, Latvia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important for the Institute of National Remembrance that these young people receive various educational aids, books. We have just prepared a manual for Polish youth together with the Senate of the Republic, together with the Polish Community. The author is Professor Włodzimierz Sulej, Director of the Office of Historical Research of the Institute of National Remembrance. Ladies and gentlemen, the scientific activity related to the 100th anniversary of regaining independence began at the end of spring 2018 in Rapperswil. Historians met in this symbolic place not only from Poland, but also from Great Britain, France, Germany, Switzerland. The topic of this session is.Magna res libertas, i.e. freedom is a great thing. The place was symbolic. It was started there in 1870, or 100 years after the bar confederation. There's an intergenerational bond here. As far as independence is concerned, we also wanted to be very wide-ranging, so to speak, to go out with this subject, to go out to people in some way interesting about history, not teachers, not scientists, not students, but to those interested. That's why we're doing this. The Academy of Independence operates in dozens of places in Poland. Its activities are still ongoing. We started a series of monthly, weekly historical lectures. Excellent historians are coming. Department, Cieszyn, Chaincut It's this kind of place. We operate in county cities. Every month, in a cyclical way, every few weeks historians meet from the Institute of National Remembrance or from outside the Institute. There are lectures and meetings, the subject of which is often the history of a given land. Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important for the Institute of National Remembrance that issues that are known locally, issues that are important... We're about to open an exhibition dedicated to the Pomeranian crime in Kashubian and Kociewi. That's a different subject. We want local history to be known nationwide. Therefore, our activity related to Silesian uprisings. We present Silesian uprisings throughout Poland, but of course we are involved mainly in that place. Ladies and gentlemen, these aren't just questions... Of course, we've published a lot of publications on this subject, we've published such a monumental... I think some of you have received six powerful albums dedicated to the Fathers of Independence. There's also an accompanying series about local independence fathers. It's a tiny pamphlet. Ladies and gentlemen, last year was not only the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, and I might focus on that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also an important 40th anniversary of the election of Charles Wojtyla as the capital of Peter. 16 October 1978 This day, this moment we wanted to remind not only in Poland, but also in the international dimension. Thus, with our Hungarian partner, the Hungarian counterpart of the Institute of National Remembrance, we organized such a powerful scientific session, for which we invited scientists from countries of the former Soviet bloc, from Romania and Bulgaria to Lithuania, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia. This session had 2 parts: the first in Krakow, the second in Budapest. It had such an international dimension. And I think I'm gonna say a few bitter words here. That this session in Poland, in Cracow, at the Jagiellonian University... She took place. There was interest. But compared to how we were, ladies and gentlemen, accepted in Hungary, in Parliament, in the building of the Hungarian Parliament... Our Hungarian partners gave us the main hall, the beautiful hall of the Hungarian Parliament, to host the second part of the session, with representatives of the highest Hungarian authorities, several hundred guests from all over Hungary. It was also an expression of gratitude to the Hungarian people. And we're seeing this, and it was also visible in the statements of scientists, historians who came from the former Soviet bloc. They are grateful, they are grateful, for they know what role John Paul played. II. There would be no fall in communism, no free states without John Paul II, without his first pilgrimage, which we also commemorated But it's already this year, so that's not the subject. The publication of this session will be published in Polish, Hungarian and English. Ladies and gentlemen, another such important moment: the 40th anniversary of the creation of free trade unions. First in Katowice, later in Gdańsk. This year, in a dozen days, there will be our celebrations related to the third place where WZZ Szczecin was founded. Free trade unions, ladies and gentlemen, I always say this, this is the First Personnel Company of our independence today. This handful of people who started operating in 1978 in Katowice, headed by Kazimierz Świtonie... Then there was Gdansk. And without that, there would be no solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, these aren't just scientific sessions, they're not just newspaper accessories, but we're mostly... This is extremely important for the Institute of National Remembrance to remember those people we owe it all to. And it was in 2018 that we started such an action so that in buildings where dead WZZ activists, such as Maryla Płońska and Henryk Lenarciak, lived, suspended plaques. This year it continued and will continue next year. Because it's also... We remind, we examine, we describe all of this, but it's also a material memory. And back to this issue of independence... Well, Valery Fame, isn't it? It was the Institute of National Remembrance that commemorated him, renewing his grave in Powązki, very neglected. And these commemorations of regaining independence, which remained after the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, are at the institute dozens. But there was also the first day last year devoted to the memory of Poles saving Jews. It was the Institute of National Remembrance that was the only institution that really, apart from organizing the ceremony, prepared certain materials that would remain. It was a big action of showing... And we also want to use other institutions to make sure that this knowledge reaches the widest possible range of our compatriots. And also foreign tourists. Because we also remember that millions of them are coming here. Therefore, cooperation with Polish Post, within which not only our publications are sold, but also in Polish Post buildings, in voivodeship departments, where thousands of people come, are shown our exhibitions. The first was about the operation of the Polish NKVD, and later about Żegota, or about the Council of Helping Jews. But there is, ladies and gentlemen, such an activity that, as I would say, universally, which is the additions to newspapers. Then, in 13 local journals, we prepared an addition on this subject. But, ladies and gentlemen, for the Institute of National Remembrance, it is also a very important question of search and identification. In 2018 there were 2 identification conferences. At this point in more than 60 places, our employees are working to find and then identify our heroes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance is also a publishing activity. Indeed, the authors of our publications are winners of many book competitions, historical ones. No, among others. The very prestigious award of the historical book of the year was received by Dr. Bagienski about the civil interview of the Polish People's Republic. This was the first place in the category of scientific works, but in this category, in which the readers vote, Pax Sovietica, which tells about the history of the national camp, the book of Doctors Muszyński and Bechta also won the first prize. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance is trying to work in many, many fields, especially for young people. For young people today the source of information is the Internet, so new educational portals, films are needed. This year we did not make it, but such a prequel of the film "Invincible," showing the history of Poland in the half century from 1939 to 1989... Well, 23 million people around the world saw it, so there was a prequel showing the time since independence, since 1918, and in fact from 1914 to 1939. We have a limited period of time, so I think maybe your questions... So the president's finished his speech, huh? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Do any of you senators want to ask the president a question? Senator Aleksander Pociej. You're welcome. Professor Żaryn? Okay, I'll write it down. Senator Chudowska too...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u15	Thank you very much. I would like to ask a question about this passage in which the President spoke about this international conference on John Paul II and that it was taking place in Hungary. She's been working together... You mentioned the Baltic countries, if I remember correctly. In all the publications concerning the election of John Paul II, I have repeatedly come across the statement that this choice was made at the very largest participation of German cardinals. So I'd like to know why this kind of conference... Well, I haven't heard. of some action in this direction on the part of Hungary and the Baltic countries. Why was such a conference concerning the election of John Paul II located between Poland and Hungary, which, as I mentioned, are not best known for helping and cooperating, and not organised with Germany? Was it a political choice, or did it have something to do with history? I would very much ask you to elaborate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u16	There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u17	Mr. Senator, this has a lot to do with history. The genesis of this conference was that the Hungarian counterpart of the Institute of National Remembrance, which we have been working with for many, many years... We met again in 2016 or at the beginning of 2017 with the head of this institute and talked about this cooperation. It lasts all the time, just like working with German scientists. I also met with the head of the institute popularly known as the Gauck Institute, there was such a big meeting in Krakow. So that these contacts are. And nobody picks up the German cardinals when it comes to Charles Wojtyla's support... During this meeting, many, many months before the end of 2018, before this anniversary, we met representatives of the NEB, the Hungarian IPN, and there was a discussion about what topics we would be dealing with together, what we care about. They wanted to study the structures of the communist party, how it looked later, during the fall of the communist system, and on the Hungarian side, there was a proposal to organise such a session in Hungary. Anti-communist opposition, the one before 1989, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, throughout the Soviet bloc, Ukraine, the Baltic States, in Russia is unanimous that the role of Poland, the role of John Paul II, the role of solidarity in the fact that these nations are free nations today, these countries are free states, is decisive. It was a Hungarian proposal addressed to us and we could not not answer it. So much for this issue. Mrs. Marshal, can I...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u18	Ask around. I'm about to announce a recess, so quickly, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u19	Mr. President, it appears from your statement that you didn't plan this yourself, but you did it because the Hungarians... No, no... Well, I'm sorry, but you just said the Hungarians came to you. I'm logically trying to strip your statement. For me, it is your statement that it was the Hungarians who initiated these events. You emphasized twice that it was the Hungarians who came to you. I ask: since the government says that also the national foundation was created for this, I will no longer talk about what money is spent on. To lie about things where they're lying... This is also the role of IPN. Question. My question is: why do you do it with those who said it? They're already convinced, and you're not trying to do it with those who say they're lying or aren't aware? Why didn't you do it on your own initiative, it was a Hungarian initiative?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u20	Mr. Senator, about the 40th anniversary of John Paul's election II, in connection with this year's 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland, the Institute of National Remembrance had many of its own projects, exhibitions, scientific conferences with partners in Poland and abroad. In the catalogue of topics proposed by the Hungarians to take together, there was also a scientific conference devoted to such a broad view of the history of churches. in all these countries. How could we not answer that? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u21	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'm gonna have to call a break right now. By 1:30 p.m. Since there will be questions for your president, please, Mr President, so that we can welcome you here at 1:30, after the adjournment... Good. Thank you. Thank you so much right now. I declare a break until 13.30 and invite you to the opening of the first edition of the exhibition. The German occupation in Kashubach and Kociewi, 1939, as well as the solemn announcement of the results of the 5th edition of the competition, the Letter to Dad, which will take place at 12.30 in room No. 217. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 13 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u22	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the third agenda: information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. We continue to ask the president questions. Mr. President, you're welcome to the podium. I have written down for the questions of Senator Zarin. You're Senator Lightning. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a few questions, but maybe I'll just try to ask three for now, and then, eventually, I'll ask for a vote and ask the others in the second round. The first case concerns a tiring me, but not just me, a problem. Namely, as in the perspective of the completed year 2018, the practice is visible. Not only legislation, but practice The Office for Remembrance and Martyrdom and Communication with the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage? There's an inaccurate record of competence. There is a request to explain where the IPN competences end and where the competences of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage begin. How is this in practice in relation to 2018? The second question is a request for you, Mr President, not so much a feeling as a position... One of the problems that came out when we were working on amending the National Remembrance Institute Act was a problem whether to divide the Public Education Office or not. Again, due to the unusual activity of IPN in both scientific and educational fields, I will ask what is your feeling today, Mr President. Did the division of the Public Education Office into 2 offices strengthen the two existing offices, namely the Research Office and the National Education Office, or was there in fact more pluses in what used to be the basis of the IPN activities, that is, in the previous law? And the third question in this turn, very important to me, concerning one of the most important research projects, the central projects that are being carried out. It is about Polish-Jewish relations, a project with Dr. Domanski at the head. How do you see 2018 from a scientific perspective? Can we tell ourselves that in this field... I'm not talking about other projects, for example. educational, propaganda, Polish historical policy, because these are separate topics, only about the scientific perspective. Is there any progress in peer research as President of the IPN from your perspective? I mean, is there experience of transferring knowledge between the community of Israeli scientists, American Jews or any other scientist who represents certain schools that study Holocaust and issues of Polish-Jewish relations during the war, or is it rather a monologue of two parties that do not interact with one another? I'm just asking about science, so pure. And in this series, that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u24	The first question concerned competence issues between the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the Institute of National Remembrance and commemoration of fighting and martyrdom. If any tensions arise, they occur at a lower level, official level, and concern only activities outside Poland, because this area of commemoration outside the country, related negligence, long-term omissions, especially in the East, is gigantic. But I think practice shows that you can communicate because, as I say, the scale of these works We and the Ministry of Education are so large that we can share and share tasks. The second point is the division of the Public Education Office. Mr. Senator knows very well that, at the time of this office's existence from the very beginning, since 2000, there have been tensions between scientific workers and those engaged only in educational activities. The Institute of National Remembrance is an institution that has specific objectives to achieve and divide... As for the division, it depends on the personality, the personality of the warden, the head office, it depends on the employees. We have branches in which such cooperation is very good and does not give rise to any disputes, but we have and those where it gives rise to disputes, but this only concerns the question of who to take certain measures. Are the scientists supposed to be involved... Well, that's for example. the issue of lectures. A concrete example: if it is divided, it is a question of whether or not. from open lectures completely exempt are researchers and whether this is just the task of education workers. It's this kind of thing. But as for the idea, it's Mr. Senator, the professor knows very well that it is that the Office of Historical Research is conducting activities, and that the Office of National Education is popularizing them. The third issue is the question of these Polish-Jewish relations, researching these relations. Last year... It was related to the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and the reaction to this law outside Poland. And what did this last year show above all? I'm talking about it because you have to learn something from it. Well, he showed that there is a need for sound scientific research. Because this discussion, or this dispute that was going on, was often a publicist one, it was a bunch of accusations, it was a bunch of numbers, and it was a bunch of numbers that were hard to verify, because... And since we're talking about sides of the dispute or points of view here, it's important to say that neither one side nor the other party has hard evidence here. The source of this hard evidence must be sound scientific research. And we at the Institute of National Remembrance just because these are extremely important issues, we moved some people, we made new jobs so that these issues could be investigated. And the scale too... It would seem that after several decades after the war there are few white spots from the times of occupation. This was investigated in the times of the Polish People's Republic, the former commission for the prosecution of crimes. It turns out that you need such basic, elementary research, and that's how we're going to start it right now. We have a few people who do that. We want to do it at county level, investigate the occupation area at county level. German troops are entering. This is what was shown just a moment ago at the exhibition. And how this first apparatus, the German army, is involved, then all the security institutions, the secret police, the public structures, the victims, and at the same time how the local population is involved in this apparatus of violence. We don't have that kind of research yet. And I think it needs to be done. This is a multi-annual project, but once we're done with it, we're finally going to have a certain scale, first of all, we're going to count the victims, and we're going to show all these mechanisms under occupation, how the occupier was leading to all these crimes. As for the other actions... One thing is, ladies and gentlemen, we have to deal with this... Even a moment ago, it was shown. This exhibition on German crimes on Kashubian soil, in Kociewi, the Pomeranian crime showed that on the one hand we just have a problem in the country with huge ignorance about certain issues and we have to face it from here all these educational activities so that we can get to the young people, to schools On the other hand, the idea is to show it abroad. And these Polish-Jewish relations due to the importance of this process... I think that maybe this year, and at the latest at the beginning of next year, but in its first weeks, the first Polish-English, Polish and English, periodical Polish-Jewish Studies, created by scientists from Poland and abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, just so we're clear... When we started to form a band of this magazine, there were voices on social media abroad calling for a boycott of this title. And this is a scientific platform, because the Institute of National Remembrance doesn't participate in publishing, etc. We're not discussing through invectives, we're discussing through the effects of our actions. We have partners outside Poland who want to cooperate, but they are definitely hostile environments, not only towards the Institute of National Remembrance, but also towards the Polish state. And a reliable scientific study of these issues, the Second World War, is, I believe, at this moment the reason of the state of the Polish state.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question is Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. President, first of all, my compliments. But I would also like to ask how much percentage or quota You lack the money to fully carry out all the tasks that are planned to be undertaken in Poland, because time is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, this answer is our proposal for the budget for next year. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is a picture of the Institute of National Remembrance as an almighty institution and an institution that deals with everything, all omissions, everything that the Polish state has not done over the years, its institutions have not done. Well, we have limited resources. Ladies and gentlemen, next year will be the 20th anniversary of the National Remembrance Institute. During this time we created the largest institution of this type in the entire post-Soviet area, an institution with a gigantic accompaniment. But also if we look back, we'll see that there were years when the Institute of National Remembrance, and I think that now such voices appear, too, was an unnecessary institution, an institution on which to save. Ladies and gentlemen, I merely remind you, in connection with these lying texts that appeared in the press, that the last salary increase at the Institute of National Remembrance was in 2007. I am merely reminding you that part of the Institute of National Remembrance is the Main Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. There's over 100 prosecutors out there. The salary structure at the institute... the higher average is that the salaries of the National Remembrance Institute employees are included in the salary of prosecutors, and every private prosecutor has a salary higher than the president of the National Remembrance Institute and deputy presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance is nearly 1 000 archivists, which is also more than 150 scientists, that is over 150 employees of the National Education Office. These are people who haven't had a raise since 2007. And these lying press reports probably from last year, that there are wage increases at the Institute of National Remembrance, that the Polish state is not on young doctors, on residents, and there are wage increases for the Institute of National Remembrance... Here we have, ladies and gentlemen, our internal regulations, which were the result of our savings, and our efforts to make those people who, as I say, last had a serious raise in 2007, increase by a few zloty salaries. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is that the Institute of National Remembrance for 20 years... We have a great staff of employees, specialists, and many institutions are being built from the Institute of National Remembrance. And from us, the best people leave because we are unable to guarantee them a better wage, and leaving immediately, they receive from 1 000 500 to 2 000 PLN... I remind you that the Museum of World War II is created on the basis of the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance, the entire director; in the case of the centre of freedom and solidarity at the Mine, the head is from the Institute of National Remembrance in Katowice; the Institute of Pilecki and all the facilities, all the documents that this institute has obtained, that is the work of archivists from the Institute of National Remembrance conducted for many months. Ladies and gentlemen, this is invisible, but behind all the activities that are so mediatically shown, like the issue of our diplomats in Switzerland Glory be to Ambassador Kumoch for doing this. The hard, invisible work of archivists from the Institute of National Remembrance. At the Institute of National Remembrance, there were more than a thousand searches for this, a query. There were several expeditions to find the remains of Mr. Rokicki Consul in Switzerland, the expeditions of the Office of Search and Identification. Each historical institution that arises and its scope concerns the history of the 20th century, especially the history after 1939. This is the Institute of National Remembrance. Ladies and gentlemen, after a committee meeting in the Sejm, I invited the members of the Sejm Committee to the archives at the Institute of National Remembrance. I also invite your senators to see the conditions under which we work. Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment we are finishing work on a large institution, the seat of the delegation in Bydgoszcz. There's money... If we get the amount we requested for the investment next year, there will be a move. For the funds we received last year, the Institute of National Remembrance will finally have its own headquarters after 20 years of activity. We managed to make a deal last year. Next year's move. You're... I invite you to the troops. There are branches that actually have new buildings, e.g. in Lublin, or after renovations, e.g. in Gdansk. But I invite you especially to the archives. We have nearly 100 km of files. Under what conditions... I cordially invite you to Kłobucka. You'll see another thing, too. The Institute of National Remembrance has this image in society that... at first it was just files and so on, and we do, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of other things. Please come to the archives. We have a project called the Full Memory Archive. We're taking over documents from almost all over the world. More, archive them, digitize them. The Institute of National Remembrance took over the entire Union Journal, a letter that had been published for 110 years in Chicago. He was threatened with destruction. We've preserved it. Two containers with copies of this magazine arrived in Poland. We organize archives in institutions of Polish emigration around the world. Now we have invited 25 institutions operating all over the world. They have their conference every year. This will be the thirty-first Permanent Conference of Museums of Archives and Libraries in the West. We invited them to Lublin. Polish Scientific Institute in Canada, Kościuszkowska Foundation, Polish Underground Studies, the Rapperswil Museum, there are our employees everywhere. We support the publication of publications. First of all, we organize the archives. We take over materials as part of the Full Remembrance Archiwum project. At the beginning of October, priceless documents from the American Falcon come to us. That's the Falcon that's in the country... They raised young people 100 years ago in their attachment to Poland. These young men later went to the Blue Army and fought at the end of the war under General Haller's command. It was because of the Boy Scouts that thanks to Sokoly these people in the next generation became Poles. They identified so much with Poland, although they were born outside Poland, that they went to fight for Poland. That's what we do, too, and we need funding for it. And how irrelevant history is today, I don't have to convince any of you. Our educational activity among compatriots abroad. There are History stops. Ladies and gentlemen, what the senator asked here... the Office of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom, the restoration of cemeteries in the Commonwealth... Ladies and gentlemen, you can say that this is going to happen in the next few weeks, we're going to be dealing with another cemetery, a cemetery in Odessa. Hundreds of Polish graves. We also renovate the Blue Army cemetery in Orchard Lake, United States. I think two days ago your Marshal Gosievska was... The renovated Soldier's Quarter of September 1939 in Powązki. These are hundreds of projects we need money for. There are voices, ladies and gentlemen, there are voices that the Institute of National Remembrance needs to be resolved. Well, here we go, we can solve the National Remembrance Institute, but that won't stop what we've done: nearly 3,000 published books, hundreds of conferences, 500 exhibitions. Yes, we have changed and changed consciousness, but I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u28	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Bogdan Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u29	Mr. President, just a little bit. At the time when the IPN Act was passed, unfortunately in January 2017 there was... The adoption of this law resulted in a deterioration of our relations with Washington and a drastic crisis in relations with Israel. What does it look like right now, after all these years? What have you done at the Institute of National Remembrance to improve these relations in one and the other? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u30	Mr. Senator, this bill has been prepared, passed outside the Institute of National Remembrance. We have adopted such a principle that we leave the legislative process to parliamentarians. Indeed, the Institute of National Remembrance was an institution Because the name of this institution appeared in this law on which it fell... It was us who fell, you can say, an attack from all over the world, for what this law did not foresee. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in this law it was written that there would be no publicisation of scientific activity or artistic activity, and it was from these communities, from scientific backgrounds, from artistic backgrounds that the greatest attack on this law took place. And this, ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance... After the amendment of this law, many scientists in the West, representing certain environments, lost contact with the Institute of National Remembrance. They said that, if so, in a situation where such a law was introduced, the freedom of scientific research is at stake and they will therefore not cooperate with such an institution. But, ladies and gentlemen, we'll say colloquially, excuse me. We're doing our job. We do research, we translate books. This is the same situation, Mr. Senator, as is the case with Ukraine. With Ukraine was or is it so that we were blocked the possibility of looking for memorial sites in Ukraine, all, in general, even though we on the Ukrainian side... I sent letters to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, proposed: let's look for our soldiers, heroes from Kostiuchnówka, from 1920, from 1939, also Ukrainians who fought in the uniforms of the Polish Army and died in the fight against Wehrmacht or the Red Army in 1939, soldiers of the National Army from 1944, from 1945, also our compatriots from Volyn and from Małopolska Eastern murdered by UPA. There was no answer to that. Now we will see what the answer will be, the real answer from the Ukrainian State. I, Mr Vjatrowycz, was already the former president, always said that although we cannot communicate in the case of Volyn, Małopolska East, our sensitivity is different here, we will not leave this, we will not forget the memory of our compatriots murdered in such a cruel way, we will commemorate them and demand this commemoration, these are also completely neutral topics, so to speak, emotionally: in 1920, the Petrula-Pilsudski alliance during the Polish-Bolshevik war, the 1930s, the great terror, and earlier the great famine, the Polish operation. Well, let's build on it. There was no answer, so we ourselves found the environments of scientists, archivists with whom we can cooperate. During the greatest amount of this dispute about the National Remembrance Institute Act, it was the Institute of National Remembrance, which was, you can say, at the center of this storm, that we managed to sign agreements with state archives in Chmielnicki or in Płoskirow, in Vinnica, Odessa. We received tens of thousands of documents about the victims of the Polish operation, about our compatriots murdered there, and together with the Ukrainians, with the archivists there we prepared an exhibition which we presented in 2018 in Chmielnicki, and this year in Odessa. It was us on the 70th anniversary of the genocide in Volyn in July 2018 together with Ukrainian scientists, but from outside the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance, that we prepared a scientific session. Here, to Warsaw, to our facility, scientists from Ukraine and Poland came. So you can talk, you can differ, you can discuss. But, ladies and gentlemen, about those issues that the senator started talking about, if certain environments don't want to work with us, then, excuse me, we won't... We have some consequences for the implementation of the National Remembrance Institute Act, but we are looking for other areas. As I say, there will be a magazine called Polish-Jewish Studies, there will also be other publications, soon there will be a monograph about the so-called. Navy police during the occupation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a big problem here in the country, because the Institute of National Remembrance, which has seven offices... One of these offices is this scientific institute, which is the Office of Historical Research. In Poland there are 170 people working in it and they deal with all the topics of the IPN - research on security, on anti-communist underground, on World War II, on anti-communist resistance, on solidarity, on emigration, on the Church. I ask: where are the historians from outside the Institute of National Remembrance? Why don't they study these subjects? Or are they studying them in the way that it was presented in the book "It's still the night?" Ladies and gentlemen, we presented the review of this work. It was the Institute of National Remembrance that said that unfortunately people with professorial titles have manipulated sources, which is unacceptable in the historical environment, ladies and gentlemen. Besides, we're still preparing another publication. There were drastic examples, even Germans were converted into Poles. Well, if that's how you do your research... Ladies and gentlemen, at the Institute of National Remembrance, this is not how we're going to investigate. Only the National Remembrance Institute is under attack... But as far as other scientific institutions are concerned, there is no discussion about this. There was no such discussion at the XX General Meeting of Polish Historians. Everyone doesn't talk about it. That's what it looks like. Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u31	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u32	I'll ask, if you don't mind, for such written information about relations with the Yad Vashem Institute. Because these relationships are both for your predecessor and for your sleep. The president of the Kurtyka were excellent. And they also produced good documentation regarding the Righteous among the Nations. So if right now these relationships As I assume on the basis of what you are saying, although in general, Mr President, they are weaker, it may be to the detriment of the various common projects that you should carry out.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u33	Mr. Senator, full agreement that some things have to be done together. Let me just ask you, under what conditions? I will check exactly when, but in Israel there was a visit of representatives of the Polish state with the participation of Minister Kasprzyk, perhaps Senator Koc and Vice President of the Institute of National Remembrance. This delegation also went to the Yad Vashem Institute and there, in this institution a Polish delegation was welcomed. By the Institute's private employees. Because no one else has found time for her. Mr. Senator, we are investigating these issues, commemorating Poles saving Jews, only sometimes we are amazed at such loneliness in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows what role the Museum of Poles saving Jews played for the Polish state. The Ulm family in Markowa, which shows these heroic examples. And it also shows examples of unworthy, examples of Poles collaborating with German invaders. But in the right proportion. Ladies and gentlemen, in Warsaw it is the Institute of National Remembrance just this year on the occasion of the day of memory of Poles saving Jews... On the wall of the Monastery of the Franciscan Sisters Assembly of the Mary's Family Mr. Senator will know better... I don't think there's a second convention on such a scale. "Industrial" can be said. In the conspiracy they were involved in saving the Jews. Mother Mathilde Getter Please, who knows this person? It's like the other half of Irena Sendler. They were the closest coworkers. Irena Sendlerova led Jewish children out of the ghetto, and Mathilde Getter's mother and her sisters were eating, you can say, taking in. Because it was a gathering that led the shelters, the kindergartens. So there were places to hide these kids. Ladies and gentlemen, these saved Jews are coming to these sisters today, to Iron Street, these girls... Ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho! Iron and... Yeah, Iron and Hoza. Those girls, ladies and gentlemen, until the 1970s, didn't speak Polish at all, so they didn't want to have any relationships... Because Poland was associated with the place of destruction. But then they broke it off, started coming. And it was us, the National Remembrance Institute, who renovated Matilda Getter's mother's grave. Now, this year, luckily, a stamp has appeared. There's a board on the wall in three languages. Ladies and gentlemen, a dozen sisters have the title of the Righteous Among the Nations, more than 100 sisters have taken care of this aid. There's a board in Sambor, and it's all over the territory of the former Republic of... Who knows this story, ladies and gentlemen? That's what I'm going to say, the concern of the Institute of National Remembrance. We get to know each day. I also personally have hundreds of such stories. I'm sorry, but we're not making movies about this. We're gonna do an exhibition, we're gonna... We show these places, and then somebody has to take care of it, show it to the world. Unfortunately, I am so convinced that we are often alone in these activities. Mr. Marshal, I would just like to say that this is loneliness, Mr. President, at your own request. Before such loneliness on that memorable night, when the law on IPN was being discussed, we observed the Senate majority in order not to lead to a crisis. It's come to him, and it's the result of loneliness. Thank you for your comprehensive answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u34	Thank you very much. The question you ask is Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u35	Mr. President, I'm sorry to tempt you with one technical remark. Of course, I can't influence your answers in any way, but I feel like we're asking short questions, pretty pointy, and you're telling the whole story. So that if you could ask for more point answers... what you had to say about the IPN, you generally said earlier. Well, we can sit here until tonight, and I'd love to sit here with the president. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You just reminded me... Mr. President says the way he likes it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...you were talking about a mixed delegation, government-senacko-ipeenovska, to Yad Vashem. I can therefore conclude that, to some extent, the activities of the IPN are part of a foreign policy. I would therefore like you to comment on your earlier statement in which you said . in relation to Ukraine Yes, we, the IPN, will never agree to a certain relationship... We, IPN. I would like to know if you are saying this more broadly, as a government majority, and whether you take into account that your actions, in the light of what you just said, are part of our foreign policy in the light of how you perceive the role of IPN. And I'd like to know if you're taking responsibility for the consequences... A historian speaking about the past is very easy to say, but you are part of an institution that affects the international relations of Poland. Do you, by saying "we" never agree, etc., speak on behalf of the IPN, or do you say this in the context of this part of foreign policy activity?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u36	Mr. President, before I give you the floor, there's a point. Mr. Senator, it is, however, a bit of a mistake to draw Mr. President's attention to how he responds to the questions asked by the senators. You, Mr President, have the right to answer as you see fit. Rules of procedure, Senator, regulates beyond doubt that the senator has 1 minute to ask questions. And that is what I am asking you to do in this time, because failure to comply with this is very much prolonging our debate. I'd be happy to turn myself in again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u37	Mr. Senator, the Institute of National Remembrance is not a government institution. The National Remembrance Institute is an independent state institution. That's all I can tell you. And we all know what's going on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u38	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u39	Mr. President, on the occasion, I would like to thank you very quickly for two things. Firstly, for the absolutely noticeable information in this term of office about what was happening in the East Not only in Volyn, not only in East Galicia, but also in other areas of the Kresów. Secondly, for helping the branch of the Institute in Katowice to create also for the resolution on the Silesian uprisings, the aid which was given to the Senate. And I have two questions. The first refers to the possibility of carrying out any research work, or actually identification work in the area of western Ukraine, once Poland. The border environments at the conferences in which I participate point out that this is the only place in the world where we cannot even place crosses at the burial site of our loved ones. This is the only place where private summary crosses are systematically removed. There are still people who remember that time and events. That's great, 'cause they're able to point to places. Actually, there are places that are recognizable. only geographically, because they structurally and infrastructurally do not exist. But we do know where these bodies might be, the remains of the bodies. This is the first question: is there any chance of exhumation and research? And the second question about memory policy here in Poland. Is such a situation that at a school in Toruń a 10-year-old Polish student has problems, including judicial, legal, because he points out that someone is spreading the idea of flagship, that a young Ukrainian is spreading the idea of flagship in Poland... And this student and his family have legal problems, including the probation officer and the case in court. Aren't you planning some kind of support as an IPN? All the more so, unfortunately, it can get worse.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u40	As for the search, as I said a moment ago, at this point our capabilities are completely blocked. If that changes, our specialists can go to these places the next day. Besides, we're looking in Lithuania... Recently there was a large funeral of the Home Army soldiers in Eishishki in Vilnius. This is the role of the Ukrainian state now. If it's okay... Perhaps the senator will protest that this is a lesson, but we need a lesson. I think, ladies and gentlemen, how to build an agreement with Ukraine. And that's what we're forced to do because he's our neighbor. I think Mr. Janusz Horoskiewicz's work is a good way to go. The Institute of National Remembrance has such a prize. Every year for 18 years he presents statuettes of the Custodian of National Remembrance to institutions and people who deserve our memory. For many years Mr Janusz Horoszkiewicz has been working for reconciliation between Ukraine and Poland in the vicinity of Stepańska Huta, looking for villages, after which there is nothing left, and placing crosses in the places of these villages. And that's our request too. The point is, there was a village here and so on. And he's not doing it alone. He does it with the Ukrainian people, he does it with the Ukrainian Orthodox or Greek Catholic clergymen. That's the kind of crosses he's set up for a few dozen. And for such activities he was honored by the Institute of National Remembrance in May 2019 with the award of the Custos of National Remembrance. Thank you very much. You ask the marshal... But there was a second point. The second question concerned this student from Toruń, who was accused of nationalistic behaviour, was brought to court, etc. Is the institute... Sir, I'll answer, too, maybe more, I'll give you a lesson. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a thing... Will you please? Don't talk to me like that again... Mr. Senator... In what mode do you ask... I'm asking you, sir. I'll be asking the question in a minute. Would you be kind enough not to speak to me like that again? Mr. Senator... But I'm asking you nicely. That's enough. Good. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken an interest in this matter. Indeed, it is unacceptable that the student in the Polish school should be repressed for such views. But from what we've learned, this case has been much more complicated. There were other issues involved. I'm just gonna make one point. Ladies and gentlemen, from France, on the other hand, we had such a signal that a young student of the school there, a Pole, protested against the contents that are in French textbooks and what the teacher said, that Poles were responsible for the murder... that they were accomplices in the camp in Treblinka. For this reason, he had a lot of unpleasantness, he didn't even get into a school where he wanted to continue his studies. He was ostracized by the students, by the teaching community, but right, they were on his side. And it was the Institute of National Remembrance that invited this brave young boy to Poland last year and gave him... This is our second prize, the witness of history. This is such a prize: a Polish Witness of History. We honor our fellow countrymen outside Poland who care about memory... And we honor, among others. For this kind of activity. It was a different matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u41	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Michael Seweryński. Mr. Marshal, I'm dropping the question because I wanted to ask you about your interest in the Volyn crime case. Mr. President has already referred to this case. Thank you. Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! However, I will ask about issues related to Polish-Ukrainian relations. Well, what are the real chances that we'll be allowed into Ukraine just to search, exhume and commemorate our countrymen who died as a result of... What are the real odds? It's not about what's going on in the verbal layer. It is six months after the presidential election in Ukraine. Besides, what are the chances of this kind of work, but in Belarus? Because here, in the report, there is a mention of Belarus, but can we really just look for our fellow countrymen there as well? And the third question related to the Eastern issue: whether in general the issues of Polish-Ukrainian relations, Ukrainian genocide should not be part of the central IPN research projects? There are some important projects. Isn't this the case that's ripe enough to be one of those central research projects? And a question from a completely different realm. Namely, the Senate was the initiator of the decounization law. It is about clearing public space from both naming and memorials commemorating communism. Do you have any? I don't know. The collection on what is the state of implementation of this law? Because he's going through you... You've been giving a lot of feedback on these issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u43	Mr. Senator, as short as you can. Well, it's on the side of Ukraine. Now we're just waiting for permission. I think in May 2018 we sent a letter about those places I talked about before the break. There are, like, 12 or 14 places in Ukraine where we want to look. Not only Volyn, Małopolska East, but also Kostiuchnówka, or 1916, 1920, the Polish-Bolshevik War, 1939, 1944 and 1945... We wait, wait. Now that I say so, the decision is up to the Ukrainian side. It's hard here... The declarations are so... But let me just say that there have been declarations before, and they haven't translated into real action. So now we're waiting for real action. As for Belarus, we've been searching there and there's no... This is an incomparable situation with the one in Ukraine. We found several victims of soldiers of the Border Protection Corps murdered by the Soviet Army in 1939 and together with the Belarusian authorities, we organized a very solemn funeral with the army in Pochości. It's a matter of decommunization. Well, I can prepare in writing an answer, how exactly it looks numerically. But the example of Warsaw's capital city shows how much more to do. 30 years after the beginning of the fall of communism in Poland, which played a decisive role in bringing down communism, it was a leader, a reference point for nations in the Soviet Union and throughout the post-Soviet area, in this fight which we fought before 1989, until today there are streets which should not have such patrons in independent Poland. This is important, the street patron is important because it works.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u44	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna clarify: Mr. Senator, would you like an answer in writing? Yes. Good. The question is Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u45	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I will return to this Polish-Jewish issue. Of course, I'm not part of Senator Klich's narrative, because when you tell the truth, sometimes you're lonely. But the problem, in my opinion, is that we, on the side of the scientific community, emphasize: scientific Jewish and, of course, archival environments like the Yad Vashem Institute, find, I hope, partners who also strive to learn the truth. Therefore, my question, following my first question, is: how many such meetings, scientific conferences or exchanges of archival experiences have been held in 2018 or to this day, e.g. under the law, between the Yad Vashem Institute and the Institute of National Remembrance, which was a testimony that on the Jewish side we have partners who also seek to recognize the truth and are not an enemy of the perceptive only in seeking true or untrue weaknesses on our side, e.g. legislative? Because these are two completely different issues. And the second question, following in turn the questions of Senator Czerwiński, concerning decommunization of both streets and monuments where they should not be. Is the experience of 2018... This question arises e.g. from such a sentence in the report: in 2018 under the above-mentioned Act That's the decounization. At the request of the voivods, 47 provisions concerning memorials and plaques were issued in total. Does the IPN collect information and is aware of what is the continuation of its substantive decisions? And I would also ask for a written reply to the question of how this case looks both in relation to the streets and in relation to the monuments. Because the competences of the IPN have limits, but I understand that it also has instruments to identify further the implementation of those competences which are in the scope of the IPN. That's the second question. And the third, I promise you, very short: Stop History. These stops have already appeared in various places of Europe and the world. Can you briefly, but, of course, if you want to share with us information, reflection, also statistical data, how much these stops really affect not only the Polish community, but also the community that lives in these countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u46	About the first question... As far as relations with Yad Vashem are concerned, maybe I'll prepare an exact written reply. I'm just gonna say this archival collaboration from the Holocaust museum looks good. We're going to do a joint workshop for archivists... Washington. Washington, yes, Washington. These relationships are somehow more fruitful. We have common plans in this area. The second question was... Here's what I'm gonna say. It kind of surprised us, I mean. the question of what happens next with communist or Soviet commemorations. Because there was a time when there were ideas to build some museums and so on. We were against it. But this issue has been resolved as if completely outside of us, it was up to them to solve these issues. Well, some of the plates... But it really is a very small scale. We even intended to prepare a place where we could store these things, but it turned out that there was no willingness to pass it on, because they were usually some kind of cement or impermanent commemoration. And the issue of plates... Well, some may be in the warehouse somewhere, but not at the National Remembrance Institute. And the third point, the question of the Stop History facilities. I think the nature of these facilities is different. Of course, there are others in the East and they play a different role, and there are others in the Western countries. We have two in the United States, Washington and Chicago. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of Polonia in the United States has changed. This is a different community than it was 30 years ago. Then the Polish community created closed ghettos, and today these are people who I think are our good ambassadors. And that's our idea. It's about getting to them, to young people or children, with a message, with material, with books, in general with knowledge, because that's the essence of the History Stop, that it's working in schools with young people. And let me put it this way: I was personally surprised when I opened this facility in London because of the demand for this type of activity. Still on American Experience It is already Polish young people who do not live in the ghetto, but do careers in the United States, often alongside American politicians of one party or another, people who are proud to be Poles who know the history of Poland. I think they really are our ambassadors, lobbying for Poland outside its borders. Ladies and gentlemen, one more last thing. At the Institute of National Remembrance we have a broader perspective, we do not operate within the term of office, etc., we carry out long-term activities. What is invisible And that's what we're focusing on. This is organic work among the young generation, the upbringing of young people, the upbringing of young people who know Polish history, who identify with our tradition, which has such an identity. I think that if these people grow up, in a few years, in a few years, they will be the elite of Poland. Then we won't have problems like this. And now only 30 years after we regain freedom, after the beginning of the construction of an independent Polish state we will have the first films about legions, about Józef Piłsudski. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u47	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u48	Thank you. Thank you very much. Can you hear me? No. 'Cause I don't see it glowing... First, I'm going to apologize to the president for that little wischenruf, as we call it at the theater. But that's just an excuse. We in the Senate are to be the law and correct the law that will eventually corrupt the Sejm. When information is submitted, especially by historians, it actually takes longer. Now we're only in fourth place, and we've got twenty-six of them. But I shouldn't have done that, and I'm sorry. And now that you have been gracious twice to reprimand me in a not very elegant way, I want to tell you that in 1991, when you were graciously graduating, I was raising money for the Lviv Cathedral, taking care of the altar, taking care of Orląt's cemetery as head of the Cracow Cultural Department. That was 30 years ago. And I'll tell you what, just in case, to add something about Ukrainian stuff, because I'm about to ask you a question... Under the leadership of Marshal Borusewicz I was in the Polish-Ukrainian-Lithuanian Parliament and we did many good, important things for Polish-Ukrainian relations, which today are not as good as they used to be. I didn't want to ask questions because you actually answered them, but... Mr. President, the unfortunate IPN law has caused that the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, who is not my government, because I am in opposition, has traveled the world from the United States to Israel for a few months, and explained that it was not the intention of this law to do what happened next. You were in the courtroom with us when I was interviewing the opposition's motion. Senator Anders, who is currently an ambassador of Poland, asked us not to vote on this bill. But it happened, and it was voted out by the Senators of the PiS, and then this misfortune began. Just tell me... You just answered Senator Klich's question, but please tell me: didn't you, as an educated man, a professor, a historian, have any influence on what is in this bill? 'Cause you could've stopped the finals and maybe somebody... I understand that smile. I understand. But the point is that this bill was prepared by young, completely inexperienced lawyers and its consequences were grieving for us. And we picked it up. You may not answer my question if you think it's too far-reaching. I just... We are all here only to see Poland in the world as it should be. We're all for the truth and our resumes prove it. It's too long for me, Mr. Marshal, and for that I apologize, but if the President is willing to answer whether he had any influence or not, please. And thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u49	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, too, for the reaction just moments ago. Mr. Senator, you're overestimating the role of the Institute of National Remembrance. I think we're in this situation right now... The issue of the National Remembrance Institute Act has been behind us for months. The point is to draw good conclusions for the future. Moreover, I see, and you can see that these conclusions are being drawn. You can't be passive in telling stories about our history, our history. There is the Institute of National Remembrance, there are other institutions that operate, arise, there are institutions of the Polish state and I think that the sum of these activities is already working. I think that's gonna be the best punch line. 1 September 2019 and the message that went into the world from Warsaw, from the square of Józef Piłsudski, from the cross of John Paul II, too, was, I think, in some part of learning from all that was before. Dear Senator, we have an important year ahead of us. The idea is to talk about the year 1920 and 1980 next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u50	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u51	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, I have a few questions. I will not ask what my colleague, the previous speaker, asked, because for me, your attitude towards this change in the IPN Act is clear. But regardless of this law, the institute tried to pursue something on a legal basis in a situation where, in a manner, it seems, clear and obvious in Poland, it violated the law which penalizes the glorification of totalitarian systems, i.e. Fascist, Nazi or Soviet? Have there been cases like this? Has the institute intervened in a situation where young people, so-called. Kibole, wore swastika T-shirts on one side and eagle or the sign of Poland Fighting on the other side? Or Celtic runes or other signs that clearly referred to Hitler? Have there been cases like this? That's my question for you. Next question, more general. Tell me what contacts with archival, historical, Belarusian, Russian institutions are like. And tell me if the institute is conducting research on Ponar. So it's also about contacts with the Lithuanians. And finally: do you think that including part of the authority's competence in matters of... the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom to IPN and assigning these powers to the Ministry of Culture was a mistake, or wasn't it a mistake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u52	First question: have we intervened? We intervened and intervened. We intervene not only on the legal level, but also monitor - To the extent that we can. The reports of the Western press and we are directing corrections. And in many cases such corrections have been made. Here it's... Mr. President, I'm talking about Poland. I understand that abroad is difficult... But there are also such situations in Poland or such situations. But no one's reported them to us... Doesn't IPN do that on its own? Well, we can't do everything ourselves... This is the operation of the Polish state, and there are other bodies here. If, Mr. Marshal, the law is being violated, then... And besides, in person, from myself, I'm going to say this: I think penance isn't always effective. The educational, educational, and awareness-raising activities are much more effective here. And that's where the Institute of National Remembrance focuses. Second question: Łódź. Right now, in these days, there are large ceremonies in connection with the ponar crime, the Institute of National Remembrance remembers this crime, has published a considerable publication on this subject, we participate in these commemorations. We remember that and, as it is on many other issues, we do everything we can to make this crime scene work, so to speak. And from my humble perspective, I make flowers when I visit Vilnius. The issue of archival cooperation with Russia. At this point there is no institutional cooperation, there are contacts with individual historians. It is similar in the case of Belarus, but, so to speak, it is wrapped up in the relationship of the other party. We had a meeting with Belarusian scientists. A dozen months... This cooperation is difficult because, I think, the awareness of the Belarusians or the scientific community there is completely different. Well, this is a country which, however, this Soviet system, oppressive as if it accepts. It changes a lot, changes a lot. For the first time in 2017 representatives of the Academy of Sciences of Belarus laid flowers in Kuropaty, where Belarusian intelligence was murdered in 1937. Our sensitivity to communism and our assessment of Belarusians is slightly different and this causes a problem, but we have contacts. Our Stops History works e.g. in Grodno. The issue of construction in Bobrujsk, a monument to Polish corpses in Russia, has already been discussed. At the last moment, the local authorities agreed... We were very close to educational cooperation, but then they pulled out of it. The eastern direction is very close to us, ladies and gentlemen. I always give an example of cooperation with Ukraine. It is many years of continuous activity, 9 volumes, thousands of documents published together with Ukrainian archives by the Archives of the Institute of National Remembrance. I'm talking about archives under the control of former Ukrainian security. It's happening. We're publishing these documents together. And there weren't any breaks here, despite the trouble with the search, with the memorials. The same applies to Lithuania. Together with the Lithuanian scientists, we published the first volume of documents from their archives concerning the compilation of Polish as well as the Lithuanian underground after 1944. Once opportunities are opened, whether in Russia or Belarus, we will be interested in cooperation, above all in archival cooperation. At this point, these archives are closed not only for us, but also for the historians there.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u53	Thank you very much. The question you ask is Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm going back to my first question. Thank you so much for being brief. This time the president was so brief, he didn't answer my question. I asked about your sense of responsibility for Polish foreign policy, and you escaped in a formula about who is calling you and that this is not a state office. I think exactly the opposite. I believe that you have a great responsibility in foreign policy, the same as your colleague on the Ukrainian side, Vjatrowycz. As it was realized that it works to the detriment of Polish-Ukrainian relations, he was just fired. I have a question for you. At the very beginning of your speech, you spoke about Valery Sławek and honoring his memory. I'd like to know something about the IPN work here. As you can remember, Valery Sławek, who was killed by his colleagues, committed suicide. I'm following the Mackiewicz's testimony. That crew that put in Berezy, among others. Nationals, it was an authoritarian crew. And I'd like to know about this connection just the memory of Valery Sławek, lost by this crew, and the people who suffered. Could you tell us about some of the work of the IPN on this subject that has been going on recently concerning these very infamous years of 1936-1939? I'd really like an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u55	There has been no work recently on this subject Prime Minister Valery Sławek had a very rich, long resume, worthy of commemoration. I stress, Mr Senator, that the main topic of our work over the 20 years is the years 1939 and 1989. These years of 1917 and 1939 were added to our activities in June 2016. And from the very beginning I said that the Institute of National Remembrance was unable to deal with all such subjects. We choose in these earlier years 2 such issues that we want to address Of course, without regard to the issue of independence, i.e. those years 1918 and 1921, because we are particularly concerned about this because we do not have so many historians, specialists. We choose two subjects from these years. First of all, these are Soviet repressions against Poles. And it's here, I'll say it immodestly. The great work of the Institute of National Remembrance in reminding the Polish operation. The second area of work is the activity of the Communist Party of Poland in Poland, the foundation of what happened after 1939 or 1944. That's it. Each issue of these 180 historians of the Institute of National Remembrance will not be addressed. There is the Polish Academy of Sciences, there are Institutes of History.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u56	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Comfort again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u57	I do not know on what basis you have made such a conclusion, that you have two priorities above all, because I did not see this in the extended law from 3 years ago. Well, you were three years old. I understand that these are political priorities. But I'd like to ask you again... You were talking at the beginning about future tasks and why the IPN needs to be able to make time, it needs to expand its knowledge. And in this context there were some issues concerning German crimes and it was said that there were also some priorities regarding the presentation of certain issues in Polish-German history. Mr President, I understand the action concerning the Russian direction, which for 40 years the Polish People's Republic was blocked... for 45 years the Polish People's Republic was blocked by the authorities. Indeed, there is a great deal of effort to be made here, and I was a little surprised that the President is not talking about priorities in this direction. However, the entire Polish People's Republic, from the Soviet uprising, dealt mainly with German crimes. A whole horde of historians who had certain tasks was involved in German crimes. This hatred for the Germans was so fueled that the letter of Polish bishops to German bishops was necessary. And I would like to remind you of the reaction of the communist first secretary of Gomulak, who got mad that someone was trying to bury ditches in Polish-German relations. The strength of Germany and France in today's Europe lies in the fact that immediately after the terrible next war and hecatombie, the victims covered the Polish-German divisions. And in this context, you're talking about the priorities of the German crime, as if for 45 years no one's been doing it. Could you explain to me why those were priorities, not this Russian direction?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u58	Dear Senator, first of all, I wouldn't call historians a horde. This is the first issue. Which is German, German... A Communist horde. Even... They were people, too, even though they fought our independence and murdered us. Dear Senator, maybe it's been studied for 45 years. Some of the research was propaganda. But how has it been studied, since we are today... In Poland, please ask: what is a Pomeranian crime? What is Sandbox? What is Szpęgawski Forest, Pomeranian Katyn, the murder of intelligence, clergymen, teachers? Why is nothing even to us, I suspect, telling you Pomiechówki, a fort in Pomiechówk, in which we recently organized a funeral? The next Saturday will be a scientific session organized together with that community from Pomiechówka. I remind you: on the grounds of Modlin fortress 15 thousand murdered, the elite of northern Mazowsze. Why doesn't anyone know about Dzia3dów? Also 15 thousand in the center of the city, you can say, in the former barracks of the German transitional camp. Several thousand victims, including bishops of the petty stork raised to the altars by John Paul II. This is the place of the greatest murder outside Dachau, where dozens of Polish priests were murdered. You can talk a lot about places like this. How is it that when we ask students of history, I emphasize, students of history, where Westerplatte lies, only 70% know. You can talk about all this for a long time. We're not doing this against anyone. We're not doing this against the German people. It's just like the Ukrainian people, which I was just talking about. We're committed to preserving that memory. We often do it together with German scientists and they understand it. That's all I can say right now. And for several years the scientists we have talked to, who are taking part in scientific sessions outside Poland, in the West... Several years ago, something extremely unfavorable began there for the Polish state, namely that Poland was an accomplice, alongside the German state, of the crimes that took place on Polish lands. That's what he's like in a lot of environments... Unfortunately, as a result of our passiveness, long-term passiveness created such a picture of Poland in scientific environments. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, this is not about the Institute of National Remembrance. It is no secret that in Poland I'm on political issues, but that's what we have to say. The Conservative Camp is the governing camp. So that's also... The Polish state is through the environment, the scientific community... Well, as in Poland, so in the West It is, isn't it? However, this left-liberal sensitivity dominates. That's what you put on... History is also part of a political dispute and this must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u60	Mr. President, two small questions, but I want to ask them. In this incriminated amendment of the law on IPN, the penalization of Ukrainian nationalism is... This applies to the period since 1925. Can you explain why since 1925? That's the first question. Second question. Did you or the head of the body that selected my former colleague, Krzysztof Wyszkowski, to the board of the institute after his scandalous Twitter entry, a public medium in which he wonders who the father of the child of President Gdansk... Were there any consequences? Or did anyone interview him morally, you or the head of the institution that chose Mr. Wyszkowski? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u61	Dear Mr. Marshal, Mr. Krzysztof Wyszkowski is an associate of yours from the Free Trade Unions, he was elected by Parliament to the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, which is an independent institution towards... He has some statutory tasks towards the Institute of National Remembrance, but he's an independent institution. Mr Krzysztof Wyszkowski's statement on Twitter should not take place That's what I think. So much for that. Thank you. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u62	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you. [[Applause]] I inform you that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance Jarosław Szarek has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Klich, Senator Czerwinski and Senator Żaryn. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz is the first. Welcome to the show.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! I'm afraid I can't be a positive judge of your activity. I'm sorry to say. Of course, many causes, research, etc. The IPN under your direction runs, publishes publications There is no dispute about that. But the first-born sin is that when the Sejm and the Senate elected members of the college and then you, they didn't point out... most of them didn't decide to bring in the scientists that the opposition offered. The PiS only introduced their nominees. After all, you're obviously connected to the PiS, that's clear, and the entire management is connected to the PiS. This is a bad situation. I was talking about this, we were talking about the fact that in order to have authority, this influence on the work of the institute, the management of the institute should also be influenced by people who present a different option. I offered Professor Dudek here. She didn't find that acknowledgment. He wasn't, and he's not an extreme scientist, he's a middle man. But that's the problem that lies at the root of my reserve over what the institute is doing. Only one option, represented by people related to the PiS, operates in the IPN and, to put it simply, gives direction to the work of the institute, which is a research and science institute, but also a criminal prosecution institute. And that's the problem, that wasn't before. Before that, however, there was an agreement on the authorities of the institute and the college or the council. There were talks, there was an attempt to build a common institute, not to own it by one party. I do not accept what you are doing, because you do not distance yourself from these changes, especially since the last amendment to the IPN Act, which introduced the Penalization, and basically the obligation to criminalize those who critically or badly write about Poles. You say the scientific and artistic spheres have been excluded from this. Well, from what you are saying at the moment, it appears that you accept this law, and we know what damage it has caused in Polish-Ukrainian, Polish-Israeli, Polish-Jewish and Polish-American contacts. After all, for the first time we entered into conflict with the United States, from which later this government and this Prime Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki, had to retreat from cancer. You were here during the discussion of this bill and agreed with these records. After all, we warned because it was clear what this might lead to. And the Lord sealed it with his presence. You can't do that. If you disagree... But I think you agree and still think it was a good bill, only scientists and the other critics didn't understand her intentions. I asked you why this penalization of the negation of Ukrainian nationalism from 1925 to 1950. I also asked Deputy Minister Jaki, who said honestly: I don't know. Well, if you don't know, you have to ask, but the institute should know why from 1925 to 1950. The negation of Ukrainian nationalism's crimes was introduced at various times when Polish territories were in completely different situations. From 1925 to 1939, there was a Polish state that pursued Ukrainian nationalism and put it in prisons, including Bereza Kartuska. From September 17, 1939 to 1941... On 22 June or 24 June, these areas were occupied by the Germans. It was a completely different real situation. And then the Polish state was reborn or functioning in a completely different geographical form, from 1944 to 1950. This involved another area, other people, etc. And there was a different situation. I'll tell you why since 1925 the penalization of Ukrainian nationalism... Because Jewhen Konowalec, head of the Ukrainian Military Organization, moved the head of the organization from Czech Prague to Berlin and broke off cooperation with Moscow. Until 1925 he cooperated with Berlin in intelligence and diversion, and since 1925 he has only cooperated with Berlin... So Soviet and Russian historiography now claim that Ukrainian nationalism was born in 1925. And we in this law, in the Polish law, introduce an interpretation of Russian history? Well, how could you let that happen? Where were you then? But it's not just that. The question of repetition: historical policy. When there's politics... The more politics there is, the less history there is. Either it's a history policy, or it's a history study, and it's history. This is a term used but completely contradictory internally. And what does this policy look like? You are doing something, picking up, etc., also conferences and studies on Pomerania, the situation in which people in Pomerania were oppressed when they were forced to accept the fifth group, the situation looked very different there than in the General Governor, was very different from the situation of Poles in the General Governor; it is about Kashubians and people from Pomerania Przywiślański. We're talking. And you say it again. Sandstone, Szpęgawsk, forts, fort near Toruń and many other places. On the other hand, as part of this historical policy, in order to strike a political opponent, the German option in Gdansk is now being discussed, replicating old stereotypes. Maybe it's in the short run, but what does it mean in the long run? Does that mean branding those people? The inhabitants of Pomerania, who suffered so much during the war, and then communist propaganda made them Germans. I come from a completely different place, my family is influential, but I know this situation and I know how people react. And you know, Mr. President, last week I was in the east of the Pomeranian Voivodeship, in a town which before the war belonged to Prussia, which was inhabited by the influential population. When I came in with a couple of people It was some kind of private exhibition. And when we answered where we came from, that from Gdansk, we heard that you were Germans. To such a situation propaganda, which is called historical politics, leads to stigmatising and lying. Mr. President, of course you have to fight this, but after what you said, I don't hope the IPN will take care of it. The IPN will continue to deal with fragments and will not speak on essential issues. That's what happened so far. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u64	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! You've talked a lot about how important an institution you represent. And how important is that to us? I'm looking at turnout. This is a partial answer. Unfortunately, the senators, as it were, pointed out here how important this institution is to them. I wish I hadn't, but as you can see, not only the opposition isn't here. In fact, there are no colleagues from the ruling party either. It is an institution to which we spent 342 million PLN. The president suggested that we spend more. In a situation where since... I'm sure you're part of a public debate. The government camp has been reforming the judiciary for four years. We spend PLN 158 million on the Supreme Court, 2 and a half times less than on your institution, and the queue for justice in the Supreme Court has doubled in the meantime. I understand that this isn't your problem, but when you ask for additional funds, you should lean on it and think about it. You have talked extensively about the fact that it is not so good that there have been no increases since 2007. About three or four years ago, during the debate, we had information about how many prosecutors in the IPN vertical have in a year of cases. It was a laughing stock of 3 cases a year. And prosecutors dealing with criminal cases in the D.A.'s office, so to speak, they can have 500. The Constitutional Tribunal has 37 million zlotys. The Supreme Board of Control, a powerful and very important institution... How is the party of power treated, and who does the party of power lead? That's what came out. But here's the thing, despite who you supported at the last meeting... It was an acclamation of the gentleman who became NIK's boss. This is an outrage. But I also find it scandalous that NIK has 100 million less than the IPN. I'm not talking about the Ombudsman anymore. Just decency... It should at least not cut the budget of this institution, which is important for our international existence and for the perception of Poland, by a few million, in order to add dozens to your institution. Mr. President, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was talking about one option and that under your chairmanship In my opinion, also This institution has become a political extension of the power camp. And what you were talking about, this joint conference, the Hungarians invited you, you can't invite others... I asked if you were cooperating to any degree. - Which would be a lot more compelling. With the Germans, in connection with the anniversary of the election of St. John Paul II. Well, you didn't come up with that idea because you're focused on one side right now. I asked you if you were interested... probably the greatest mystery of the interwar: Zagórski. Did you do something? No. Why? Yeah, 'cause it could be the icons behind that murder. You're looking at the historical truth? Are you interested? No, you're interested in selected directions. And these two directions chosen, Mr President, unfortunately, the negative ones for which you provide public television, propaganda, are Germany and Ukraine. As I asked you if you felt a shared responsibility for foreign policy, you snuck out by the side, by the formula that you were independent. Which, of course, isn't true. From the rulers, from the ruling camp. And you are also responsible, in addition to historical truth, for our international relations. And you have a very large responsibility in this regard, even if it is not written down. And with a future historical assessment, you're not gonna get away with it. And the deterioration of our relations with Germany and Ukraine is in the interest of only one country on this continent: Russia. And digging into this or heating up a public discourse in this area... that should also be, so to speak, in the function of our national interest. And I'm not against the truth, but certain actions and certain achievements, studies can be conducted so that they are purely historical, but you can also do what you unfortunately do. Heat the international atmosphere. Unfortunately, that's what you're doing. And you've reached a colleague on the Ukrainian side, if I recall correctly, Vyatrovych. And the two of you have done a great, harmful and unnecessary work, to such an extent harmful and unnecessary, that you have been questioned about the appeal of the master, according to every weekly You didn't need much work to ruin Polish-Ukrainian relations. President or President Vjatrowycz suffered the consequences. The Ukrainians came to the conclusion that his argument... For he also stood in the stand in Kiev and said, "The truth will set us free." We have to do all this. And he flew. Ukrainians learned a lesson that... Well, you can't punish yourself, being one of the most important Polish officials, leading foreign policy on your own. Many times in the Senate, hot heads have passed or tried to praise absolutely true - we have been dealing with this recently - resolutions concerning our history. Once the law and justice authorities responsible for foreign policy did not block it and we started a new chapter, very bad, in relations with Ukraine, the second time when it concerned relations with Germany, at the last minute someone in the government went to reason and blocked it, because the opposition did not do it, because of course nobody listens to the opposition. So that, Mr President, I absolutely believe that the balance of your actions historically may be reported. But as far as our relationship is concerned, It was a lot of talk about Israel here, so I'm gonna keep it quiet, it's just terrible. And I think you should think about whether or not you should do it yourself, because now it's difficult to cancel the President of the IPN, to take the path of your Ukrainian colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u66	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Unfortunately, I'm going to start with a certain malice towards my colleagues in the Civic Platform, above all, your marshal and a very nice senator, whom I crazyly like. Prove to me that the Institute of National Remembrance on the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II should not deal with crimes on the Polish nation committed by the Germans, by the Soviets, that in the year of independence, 2018, in the century of independence should not deal with the fathers of independence, but with topics that maybe the Senators of the Civic Platform would consider to be leading. Well, when you look at this report, and we're talking about 2018, which, of course, covers only a section of the activities of this Institute of National Remembrance, you can see very clearly that the Institute of National Remembrance, led by a particular group of people, must be aware that the impact on what we call national memory, which is historical memory, is connected with dates, anniversaries, some kind of important events to which it must appeal. And please consider whether there is any convergence in this report, and there is, just between the fact that there are important dates, such as anniversaries, centuries, was 1914, then 1918, and so until 1921, and what is among the main tasks of the Institute of National Remembrance. This convergence will be seen instantly, even in the albums that have been prepared, in the albums concerning the fathers of independence, in exhibitions circulating around the world, also concerning the fathers of independence. Do you gentlemen of the Civic Platform really believe that in the century of regaining independence, the IPN should not be involved in this, should it not be considered as a priority? Consider the words of the president... I know the answer to that, of course, yes, he should take care of it, it's obvious. Please consider not only that, but it was important, too. I didn't even know it, even though I've been involved with the IPN for many, many years. That since 2007, there have been no increases. These are officials, ladies and gentlemen, they're on official salaries, which means the last raise was when I was lucky to be the director of the Public Education Office, and that's when I proposed these raises, at least as far as the Public Education Office is concerned, and the dead. Janusz Kurtyka was, of course, the main perpetrator of these increases in all other verticals of the then IPN. So I have some satisfaction, but it's very sad that there haven't been any raises since. Well, not only are these increases important, but also the number of scientists, the number of educators. The philosophy of every management of the IPN is that it has to take into account human capabilities, because mobbing is not the custom of management relationships. Science workers and educators or other employees in the IPN, and must therefore set priorities. If you really believe that the priority for 2018 should be greater emphasis on the fathers of independence, please do not present such ideas so that IPN can deal with Berez Kartuska and Walery Sławek at the same time, and the assassination of General Zagórski, etc., etc. We know all that. Therefore, I ask: why? This is some kind of language of politics that the state uses in these stories. All in order to say that the IPN will always be a bad institution, both when it carries out research according to the obvious fact, because priority research paths need to be indicated, priority choices need to be made... Then it's bad. And when you don't recognize those priorities, it's bad, too. Well, from the Gospel we know Christ's conversations with the Pharisees. I don't know why you gentlemen want to be on the other side of Christ's conversations with the Pharisees. Why? I said, why? That was the malicious part. Now that part's less mean. Namely, I will address Marshal Borusewicz here. I know it's kind of next to the mainstream, and the president of the IPN said it. The President of the National Remembrance Institute had nothing to do with the amendment of the IPN Act. It was we who had as Members, Senators and Government, and the Institute of National Remembrance was not here, perhaps it was not wrong, it is indeed a question to discuss at all included in the procedure. Well, I have to say, I was in favour of amending the IPN Act. I believe that criminalisation is needed, and I voted in favour of this law full of conviction that we are right. The fact that sometimes As I said, in my opinion, When you act in the name of the truth, it turns out that you're alone, doesn't mean you have to be a cynic instead. If there's a choice between cynicism and being alone, then let's be alone, Mr. Marshal, and not be cynical. It is not in the Polish tradition, and you also brought your life story into this tradition of anticinism. In this situation, I have this question: why do we have so much misunderstood politics instead of the truth that you can boldly, with the testimony of your life, articulate? And you're avoiding the testimony of your life, and you're getting into these political areas that aren't the happiest. Why? Worth it? Thus, the amendment of the IPN Act was appropriate, in my opinion it should be understood. And from the fact that we've lost, it doesn't seem that we're supposed to say today that we shouldn't have done it. Sometimes, unfortunately, it gives way to the stronger ones, to those who have just turned out to be cynics, as we know perfectly well. We are not the carriers of cynicism, we are the ones who are, unfortunately, not interested in the truth being able to win. Which side in this regard is worth being, how do you have one life and want to be saved? I think we know. It should also be said that the Institute of National Remembrance now goes back to the main topic In 2018, of course, he had huge tasks. In fact, every year we see this extraordinary work of the Institute of National Remembrance. This is, of course, due to the leadership, but also due to a certain specificity of this institution, and this specificity is that it is one of the few Polish institutions that never required decommunization, because no communist has ever worked there. Unfortunately, we cannot say this about all Polish institutions. This is followed by a second very important quality. Namely, it is an institution in which people work very often, starting in 2000, 2001, 2002. I can't even remember exactly what year you've been working with the president of Jarosław Szarek. Probably since 2001, maybe since 2000. I've been working since 2000, just like a lot of people. Well, answer me one question. That's really the last question I'm letting out in space. Is it really possible to say that all these people still work there today? At least the vast majority That's the PiS-owska institution? They've been working since 2000 and this is the PiS-owska institution? Mr. Marshal, you know this institution very well, and you know who works there. Just because management is in the hands of a particular person doesn't mean that the president of the Institute of National Remembrance e.g. affects the results of scientific research of its staff. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]] Thank you, Senator, Professor. Thank you, that's all. Excuse me, sir, because you're saying interestingly... Yes, I do, Mr. Marshal... ...very interesting, but there's a limited time and I'm keeping an eye on it. Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u68	Mr. Marshal, at first I want to apologize to the president because I distorted his name. Looks like it's come to this. I'm so sorry, sir. It was in the debate. And it's hard to argue with Senator Żaryn... I'm glad. ...if the Senator of the Fire stands on the side of Christ and sets me on the side of the Pharisees or on the side of those who have no scruples, etc. Mr. Senator, if I were being mean, I'd say I even agree with you because I don't want to be on your side, to be on your side. Not as a man, but as a politician who has specific views. From what you said... You've argued with those that no one's put up here. No one questioned the need to commemorate regaining independence in 1918. No, no one questioned that. We were merely pointing out problems that the President of the IPN did not respond to. Changing the IPN Act was the beginning of these problems. And it's not like the IPN didn't participate in the creation of this bill, and then there were voices that it took that it was consulted with the IPN, and there was no dementia. And the president, along with his officials, seems to have been here during this debate in the Senate. He was probably also in the Sejm. And he heard these arguments from different parties. I believe it was the duty of the head of such an important institution to speak and warn or support. And about that, I have my attention. The President of the IPN, however, influences a certain shape of what you do in foreign policy, as well as in a policy that you call historical, which I very much dislike. He has such obligations. I don't know why he didn't. I can only suspect why he didn't. I hope that such situations will not happen to such kicks in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Pociej, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I probably wouldn't have walked into that podium if it wasn't for the kind words Senator Zarin said. And I'm very happy to be able to repay you. Although we are completely different to some extent, we can communicate with each other in a way that gives us both the satisfaction of a certain intellectual exchange. In response to this parable of the Pharisees and of Jesus, if I had Jewish blood, I would say, what are you saying, little brother in faith? But because I am Catholic and I have some experience, because I have a brother in Cracow, where, in my opinion, as far as his faith is concerned, Father Rydzyk is somewhere behind the wall, to the left... He is a philosopher and uses such tricks. This is where the sophistication bows, Professor. There are tricks that make it quite difficult to discuss. Some axioms you set up in advance. I don't think I'm in this argument. I was on the side of the Pharisees, and you on the side of Jesus I would find arguments that it is exactly the opposite. I'll get back to what you said about cynicism. This is, in my opinion, another argument that is really hard to argue with, but I will answer to say that it is not cynicism, but that is wisdom. And the United Kingdom, which, unlike us, does not care all the time, throughout the year, about its national disasters, but celebrates the history of the conquest of the world throughout the year... There was a politician who said that the state had no feelings or sympathy, but it had its interests. I'd like to say that this is not cynicism on our part... I think you're... If we are talking about government officials - regardless of who they are - I believe that the state is not supposed to stand up for the truth because the state has interests. The Polish National Foundation can be the guardian of the truth, the IPN is to stand. Of course, but subject to the fact that our present and foresight national interest is the most important one, because it's our children depending on how we get together with our neighbors, whether we're going to go into agreement or we're going to rub it... we're going to have the fruit that we're going to plant... And in this respect I would like to stress that this is not cynicism, this is thinking about Poland, about our future, which... Of course, Poland must have a memory on the one hand, but on the other hand it must think about international relations so that it is most beneficial for us and for future generations. I have the impression that this anchor or this hull load has shifted one way for three years. And that does not allow us to navigate towards future generations, consent and cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u71	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the President still like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches? You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u72	Mr. Marshal, as short as you can, I will refer to what Senator Pociej said mostly. Something like that, ladies and gentlemen... Because you make the Institute of National Remembrance a political institution, and consequently, the President of the Institute of National Remembrance has certain views. Only somehow did you give Marshal Borusewicz examples of other historians here. They don't have political opinions. This is such an unusual lack of symmetry. But give me an example - because the senator was talking about how we're tearing down, how we're splitting up political action, how we're shifting it to one side. Mr. Senator, I didn't want to go into politics, but I have to... See what the conferences of the Institute of National Remembrance look like and who appears on them. Not long ago, people who run from the same party you represent. And that's not an exception. At the conferences of the Institute of National Remembrance are present and my predecessors, and representatives of the previous Council of the Institute of National Remembrance. This was the case on panels prepared by the Institute of National Remembrance several days ago, at the 20th meeting of Polish historians in Lublin. So where's the tilt? I think this pluralism... Look at the books we publish, the authors we write. Of course, historians are divided, they have political views, but we issue authors from all sides of the political dispute. That's another line. You presented the Institute of National Remembrance as one that disrupts relations between Poland and Ukraine, relations that should be good, and you said that we have a destructive, as you say, foreign policy. Well, Mr. Senator, I think the weakness of the Institute of National Remembrance is that we are not accompanied by a camera. We are not accompanied by a camera when in Vinnica with the Mayor of this 400 thousandth city, with representatives of the regional authorities, we open together an exhibition when we place flowers under the table of Marshal Józef Piłsudski and later Simon Petlura. We are not accompanied by a camera when in our exhibitions, in our scientific sessions is the present Mr. Ambassador of Ukraine when Mr. Ambassador of Germany comes to us. You don't see that. As for the words of Marshal Borusewicz... At this point, and just a moment ago, you said that the Institute of National Remembrance... You pointed out to the Director of the National Education Office that you did not protest in Gdansk after you were caught up in a meeting somewhere in Kashubia by one of the people who said: Mr. from Gdansk, this is a German option. But, sir, sir. I'm sorry. It's gonna be political now. It's from your party's list that people who exceed all the rules, I think, are not just good upbringings. I'm not gonna... You know what I'm talking about. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the destruction of our language, our social relations. And show me the words of my deputies at the Institute of National Remembrance, employees... I invite the senator, the senators, to the Institute of National Remembrance, to the archives on Kłobucka Street, to see what we do and what we do, because I think you need this lesson. I'll just remind you that if it wasn't for the Institute of National Remembrance... It was we who reminded, we brought out from oblivion the names of people who are an international symbol of Poland, such as Mr. rotmaster Pilecki and many, many others, because here they were built on a lie for decades. For 20 years, the Institute of National Remembrance has been accused of rewriting history. Yeah, because in many parts of this story you have to rewrite it. And we're gonna do it. But don't accuse us of issues that are somehow imaginary or... I don't know how to put it, but they don't correspond to reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u73	Thank you very much. Thank you, President... Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u74	Mr. President, I don't blame you for not intervening when someone said to me: well, you're Germans. No. I am talking about the whole atmosphere that was created, the one under which Gdansk and Pomerania are German options. This is an untrue, outrageous atmosphere, this political playoff for today, which will leave traces in the future. And that's the first line. I don't know what you were talking about when you said something. I told you that a member of the College of IPN Krzysztof Wyszkowski 'Cause if I'm talking, I'm giving names 'cause he posted an outrageous entry, of course, not about history. It was an outrageous entry concerning President Gdansk. I'm looking It's a good thing you got away from it. That something has to be done about it. Either you should have a conversation, or the head or marshal of the Senate, because it seems that in the Senate we chose Krzysztof Wyszkowski, he should have a conversation in which it would be said that such things are inappropriate. That's all. I just think you have to react to things like that. The entry by Krzysztof Wyszkowski is lowering the authority of the IPN, it is undoubtedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm not doing anything, Mr. Marshal, talking to anyone. We choose, and then they're all completely independent. I would never interfere and I wouldn't have any conversations. That's it, by the way. I don't want to refer to others... I was somehow called here, so I had to refer to it. Thank you very much to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Jarosław Shark, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of information about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. Thank you very much, Mr. President. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on Flights of the Most Important Persons in the State. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1297, and the report of the Commission In print No 1297 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u76	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law on Flights of the Most Important Persons in the State adopted by the Sejm on 30 August 2019. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Senators! The Act sets out the rules and modalities for the organisation of flights of the most important persons in the State, i.e. President of the Republic of Poland, Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and President of the Council of Ministers. In addition, the Act specifies who may accompany the most important persons in the State on board the aircraft. According to the law, these may be members of a delegation, i.e. parliamentarians, representatives of public authorities, experts, persons providing technical, medical or organisational services, as well as family members, if their participation in a delegation is dictated by the official nature of the tasks carried out in the course of the delegation. The chiefs of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, the Chancellery of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, the Chancellery of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers will be responsible for organizing the flights of the most important persons in the country. The Act grants a special role to the Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers in resolving doubts regarding flights of the most important persons in the State organized by the Head of the Chancellery of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Head of the Chancellery of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers after receiving from the Head of the Chancellery of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland or the Head of the Chancellery of the Senate of the Republic of Poland information about the flights organised by these firms will have the right to indicate issues which raise doubts in particular regarding the safety of the flight, its organisation and the nature of the official mission to be carried out in the course of the flight and to call for their removal within the prescribed time limits. In the event that doubts are not removed, the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers will have the right to refuse the execution and organisation of such a flight by the Chancellery of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Chancellery of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. In addition, the Act provides for the creation of a Central Register of HEAD Status Flights. This register will be kept by the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Data relating to, among others, will be transferred to the register. the dates of flight of the aircraft, the route taking into account the landing sites and the names of the persons accompanying the most important person in the country. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement, except for the provisions concerning the Central Register of Flights of the status of HEAD, these provisions are to enter into force 6 months after the date of the announcement. I would just like to point out that, during the sitting of the Sejm, this law was adopted by 233 votes, 171 votes against, 5 abstentions. The Senate Legislative Office prepared an opinion for this law, which included 4 specific comments. I may not discuss these comments, because the doubts of the Legislative Office were resolved during the joint committee meeting. Deputy Chief of Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Paweł Szrot, explained and argued the solutions contained in the regulation. During the committee meeting there was a social party represented by the Civic Network Association of Watchdog Poland. This association has also prepared an opinion on the bill, and it has highlighted 2 issues of concern. The first issue concerned the date of storage of the archived flight register data. Here was a request to extend this original statutory deadline From 5 years to 10 years. Minister Paweł Szrot explained that the 5-year period is such a standard period of archiving. Besides, this data will not be destroyed, but only archived. The second point was the issue contained in two further proposals. It concerned, in general, certain restrictions on access to public information. This access may be limited in relation to the safety of persons taking part in flights or in the case of a higher interest of the Polish State. There could be situations like this. If such questions were in the room... In my opinion, the Minister referred to a very good example of such a situation when such data should be classified. The Senators spoke during the committee meeting. As far as problems are concerned, the main problem is... There was a question of Senator Zientarski regarding HEAD's flights with respect to President Andrzej... I apologize to the President, because the next presidents will travel under this bill as well. A theoretically private thread of the departures was taken, i.e. Mr. President's departure for a holiday to the government centers. It has also been explained by Minister Szrot that the President, as head of state, does not really have a holiday, is at his disposal. Those security rules and those HEAD flights must be... Flights of a theoretically private nature must have such status. The argument presented by the military party concerned the organisation of the necessary electronic communication, i.e. access by the head of state to electronic communication tools during this type of journey. Those records should therefore be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's position was adopted at the committee meeting: the committees decided by a majority to adopt the law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. Minister Michał Dworczyk, a member of the Council of Ministers, was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work, and you are represented by Minister Paweł Szrot. Minister, would you like to speak? You're welcome. Welcome to the meeting of the Undersecretary of State, Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek of the President's Office. Would you like to speak or not? No. No, it's okay. Well, maybe there'll be some questions for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u78	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Well, out of respect for the High House, a few words of explanation are due to me. It's gonna be a very short speech, because I wouldn't want to... I do not know how to complete the rapporteur's very comprehensive statement here, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I do not want to talk about matters which I will certainly have to say when answering the questions of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Why do you propose this bill, and why such a project? Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of flights of the most important persons in the country has so far been regulated at a low level. The basic legal act in this area was so-called. the HEAD-OWS instruction, i.e. the legal act of the rank of instructions issued by the Minister for National Defence by decision. There were also arrangements for individual heads of law firms to organise such flights. This system was not exhaustive, even with regard to the above-mentioned provisions, hence the need to harmonise this system and to increase the rank of these entries to the statutory rank. The second condition for the submission of this project, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, is the need to harmonise concepts, the need to remove all doubts. The law which I have the honour to present indicates who is the highest position in the State of the flight which has the status of HEAD, who can board this type of aircraft. It also regulates the principle of clarifying doubts about the organisation of such flights and establishes the so-called. the central flight register in which they will be publicly available, with certain reservations, information on these flights. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please accept this information. I'm at your disposal when it comes to questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Anyone want to speak? Senator Rotnicka. Senator Rotnicka. You're welcome. Later, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you a prosaic question. With such care, you spoke about systematizing and explaining exactly who and how you can be treated in the status of HEAD. The term of office of this Parliament and your governments is almost over, in this term of office, of course... That's what the nation will decide. ...so I'm asking, why did you guys take it so late? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u81	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Klich a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u82	Minister, this bill refers to further decisions, further regulations. What do you think should be regulated in these regulations when it comes to details?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u83	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u84	Senator Rotnicka asked a question about her opinion on the late deadline for preparing this submission, because just before the end of her term of office. Mrs. Senator, it would be truism to mention that the rules applied so far have raised some doubts. I think it's obvious, Senator. Since there are doubts, since practice has shown that there are gaps or inconsistencies, they need to be completed. This is the task of the actors responsible for the legislative initiative. Senator Bogdan Klich asked for a regulation, actually an order... Excuse me, but here in the delegation, it's mostly about orders. This is primarily the order of the Minister of Defence concerning the detailed arrangements for the organisation of flights with the most important persons in the State carried out using military aircraft special air transport or other military air transport aircraft. There are also arrangements for all 4 heads of law firm, starting with the head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, by the head of the law firm of the Sejm, the Senate, to the head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers. They are also intended to lay down detailed arrangements for the organisation of flights with the highest-ranking persons in the State. Mr. Senator, all the details that are not covered by this bill, of course... You didn't have it in your hand. It's obvious because it's a restricted document. The HEAD manual, which is currently in force. This is a huge document that defines the whole circulation of documents, the exchange of information, the submission of applications, all deadlines and exceptions to these deadlines, because this is also necessary. And all these details will have to be included in these legal acts. Mr. Senator, please accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u85	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Minister, art. 2 (2) 2 states that every flight of the President of the Republic of Poland is a flight carried out on an official mission. Does that mean that every president's flight is a HEAD flight? Is it kind of collapsing, or can there be cases that the president's flight will be a private flight? Mr. Marshal, may I, or...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u87	Yes, you're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u88	Mr. Senator, let me make this short and simple: the assumption that you've taken, when you ask this question, is absolutely correct. The bill assumes that there are no private flights of the President, all of them being HEAD status. This is mainly due to reasons relating to the safety of the head of state. Besides, it's coming up. In fact, it's not some sort of hierarchy of these two conditions. It is necessary to ensure continuity of command with the structures of the State, primarily the Armed Forces. It is clear that the President's flights should always be official, with full security and the status of HEAD. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u89	Thank you very much. Minister, just a moment. Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. In a way, the Senator rapporteur mentioned it. In the specific remarks there is such a bit of a curiosity that in case of doubts about the organisation by the head of the Sejm Office or the Senate Office of the flight of one of the most important people in the country... And there's still talk of what it's all about. Well, if the head of the firm is in doubt then, I presume, to the Marshal of the Sejm or the Senate, to dispel his doubts, and then arrange this flight. It seems a little strange to me because the head of the firm is calling a marshal. So it's kind of like an employee who gets orders from his employer has doubts and asks the legislator why he's going. I don't really understand it. Sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u91	Wait a minute. Minister, wait a minute. Senator Klich will ask you one more question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u92	Minister, I asked because this law regulates only essential matters, while the HEAD instructions both which I signed in June 2009 and subsequent amendments, twice, if I remember correctly. These are very extensive documents. And they also, in the open part, because you said that these were regulations about the classified status of I don't know if I understood you correctly. Will these details be classified at the moment, or will these arrangements be partially open and partially secretive? This is an extension of my question. Besides, what is very important, the previous HEAD instructions, both the original 2009 and its amendments, did not say anything about the possibility of transporting military and not only military, but also special aircraft of families or friends. They didn't take such a solution into account. They were included in the article. 10 §1... Excuse me, in the article. 11 states that members of official delegations may also benefit from this. Here in the article. 3 it is repeated that staff accompanying the most important persons in the country may also benefit from this. I understand that here is repeated a little differently, i.e. they are persons providing technical, medical or organisational services and a category of journalists who may take part in such flights is introduced. Finally, there is the possibility of family members participating in this bill, of course in the case of the President's flight... Mr. Senator, because that's... Excuse me. I mean... I'm asking you a question, because for now, this is a discussion. In this second question, I mean, why put in these additional records, since the previous HEAD manual did not say anything about the possibility for family members to use the HEAD status flights.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u93	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u94	Senator Dowhan asked a question about the procedure to clarify the doubts. You pointed out that you presume that the head of the firm will address the marshals or the president. As far as that's concerned, that's an incorrect presumption. He will, of course, ask for an explanation, but to the heads of the firm, his counterparts, starting with the head of the President's Office, ending with the heads of the parliamentary chambers. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Senator, the reason for this is that, in connection with the organisation of these flights, the firm assumes great responsibility in keeping the register of these flights. It cannot be ruled out, or rather it must be assumed that such occasional cases will occur, doubts as to whether the flight is official or unofficial. These doubts will have to be clarified, not on the basis of any arbitrary decision, of course, but by clarifying cases involving the relevant heads of the firm, and the coordination of this explanation must be taken over by the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Senator Klich. I actually have to hit my chest because in my previous answer to your question, I assumed you didn't have a HEAD manual in your hand. Well, you had her in your hand, it's obvious, as Minister of National Defence. Dear Senator, this is what the HEAD manual has been used by all governments since you introduced it, and this has not led to the elimination of problematic situations, when questions arise about the participation of certain persons in the delegation. The transfer of these records to statutory records will allow all such doubts to be clarified in fact at the time of the organisation of the flights. And the fact that HEAD's instructions did not include family records did not prevent family members from taking their place on these planes when justified or when not justified. Please accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u95	I don't hear any more calls. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. Thank you very much, Minister, and Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 1303, and the report of the committee In print No 1303 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a proposal from the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs to reject the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other laws. Report on the committee meeting... I would like to say that this proposal has been supported by four current Senators from the Civic Platform. The three other senators, the Law and Justice, were in favour of this law without amendment. A minority proposal will be put forward in this regard. A few words about the bill. The law on amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and some other laws is a law which is, by volume, quite large, because it takes several dozen pages, but can actually be brought into several cases. The primary objective, the subject matter of the law is As can be read in the justification of the draft presented by the government in the Sejm To ensure greater transparency of public life than ever before, to eliminate any unjustified suspicions directed towards public officials and to ensure greater consistency in the rules currently in place in the area of property claims. The purpose of this law is to extend the scope of the declarations of property made by Members, Senators, Members of the European Parliament, as well as persons such as the President of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and others, to include a whole long list of persons holding government positions, as well as certain other public functions relevant to the functioning of the State. This extension of the scope of the statements is, in principle, a single scope, namely information relating to the property situation of the people closest to them who make the statements. The Act introduces the obligation to make declarations of property relating not only to personal property, but also to property covered by the marital property of the person obliged to make a declaration, as has been the case so far, but also to the personal property of the spouse, the personal property and the property of the spouse, the children of his own, the children of the spouse, the adopted children, as well as the person remaining in the common life. As I said, Members and Senators will be required to make such a statement under the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, Members of the European Parliament under the Act on the Pleasure of Members of the European Parliament, President of the Constitutional Tribunal under the Act on the Status of Judges of the Court and Marshal of the Sejm, Marshal of the Senate, President of the Council of Ministers... There is a whole long list of other high-ranking persons under the Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by public office holders. And it is these laws that I have mentioned that are amended by the law that we are leaning over. The Act assumes that, as a rule, property claims will be made public. This is a significant change in relation to the current legal situation, because at the moment people who make statements under the Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions may disclose data but do not have to, and now they will have to. Only information about address data, the location of the property and information that allows the identification of the movable property, as well as personal data of the persons for whom the statement is made, will not be disclosed. The Act also accepts a very important element, namely that all statements of property of its own motion will be the subject of an analysis of the competent heads of tax offices, i.e. a novel, and in terms of the accuracy and accuracy of the statements of analysis will be carried out by the Central Anti-corruption Office, in relation to all these statements, i.e. filed on the basis of various laws mentioned by me just now. The list of persons who make statements pursuant to the Act on the limitation of business activity has been extended. The President of the Management Board and Deputy President of the Management Board of the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, President of the Management Board and Deputy President of the Management Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, President and Deputy President of the National Health Fund, President and Deputy President of the Agency for Medical Technology Assessment and Tarification, President and Deputy President of the Agency for Medical Research. With regard to the very course of the committee's meeting, the position of the Legislative Office was first presented. In principle, the legislator made two main comments. One question concerned the constitutionality of this solution, which, in its most simplistic way, imposes an obligation to disclose property to persons who do not perform public functions. This was the subject of questions and discussions. The second point, the second question, the legislator's second doubt, was about the possibility of implementing this law because it was an obligation for those making statements to the persons who, you might say, are a source of information for those who are responsible for the accuracy of this data. There was a discussion on this subject, there were many questions, both questions about cases raised by the Legislative Bureau, as well as about history or facts, known cases of violations of the existing legislation in this area. There were doubts about family relationships under different circumstances. There were also proposals, questions as to whether it would be better for relatives or loved ones to make statements themselves. There were also doubts as to whether the list of persons holding the highest positions is complete. The Minister answered the questions exhaustively, commenting also on the comments of the Senate Legislative Office. As far as constitutional issues are concerned, some senators have also taken the floor on this matter, saying that indeed Article. 61 of the Constitution speaks of the possibility of treating specific or special persons with public functions, but there is also an article. 31, to be precise, his mouth. 3, which talks about the possibility of limiting some citizens' rights due to different kinds of important interests. Therefore, there seems to be a basis for restricting privacy and information autonomy, precisely because of the social need in this area. It was also pointed out that the Minister also pointed out that, in fact, it may be to a lesser extent, but such a principle already applies because people making statements of property must disclose the assets of their life partners, wives, husbands, even when... and this information is not fully authorised, i.e. it is authorized by the submitting statement, but in fact the information can come from these people, because they can have e.g. your own account or some personal property. As regards the question of the possibility... or the allegation of the impossibility of implementing this law in an effective manner, there were various kinds of proposals and the Minister explained that, at the moment, many also making statements about their assets, in addition to what is nominally indicated in the forms, put additional information about the fact that, according to their knowledge, it is so and so or that they are not sure. And it seems like it's supposed to be the same here. If there was such a situation that there would be no certainty as to the accuracy of the data given e.g. by the adult children of the person making the statement, then it would simply have to be noted in this form of the property statement, i.e. To write that, according to my knowledge, it is just like that or that this person refused information. In checking such a declaration, the investigating authorities Once again, in conclusion, I will say that the committee's position, adopted by a majority, is to propose to the High House that the bill be rejected. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u97	Thank you, Senator. Now I will ask the minority rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Leszek Piechota, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! I have the honour to present a minority proposal that concerns the adoption without amendment of the proposed law. This proposal was not voted because there had been a vote on the motion to reject the bill. For this reason, the group of senators submitted this proposal, on the basis of the legitimacy of the amendment of the law submitted by the government, which enhances the transparency of the statements of property, so that there is a better insight into the property flows of the people closest to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u99	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Comfort, come in. There you go. Which of the rapporteurs do you address?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u100	Senator Radziwiłł is closer. Was there any mention of why... That would be just as logical or as illogical. Why, for example? Parents are excluded from this, since we know, in my life experience, that if we're talking about rewriting property, it's easier to rewrite it to parents? Preliminaries or preliminaries, donations are not subject to any tax. What's more, it can be recovered by inheritance. Was there any discussion about this? Were there any logical arguments? Why doesn't this apply to parents?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u101	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! There was simply no question about it, but there were questions as to why this border was set here, i.e. Why this applies to children It can be said that children of every kind, because also adopted, and spouse, etc. s e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, you could also ask why it doesn't apply to parents, mother-in-laws, etc. There was basically the only possible answer: somewhere this limit needs to be accepted. Of course, you can discuss, you can expand this circle, but it was decided that way. By the way, since there have been questions about the prospective or, in particular, grandchildren, I would like to remind you that this applies only to adults who may own their own property.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u103	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u104	I'm sorry, ad vocem. No, it's like... Someone sold the senator false information because underage children may have property, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u105	But they won't be subject to it. Okay, maybe it was... Excuse me... But that's kind of... Thank you. Yeah, the last part of the last sentence was my bonus.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u106	Senator Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u107	Thank you. Mr. Senator, what does it look like under the law? This is, say, the situation: a son or a married daughter is to submit additional information about her wealth, but this report is submitted by a public person. Is that legal? It's not like I have the ability to force this on anyone to make a statement like that. What would I do in a situation like this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u108	The Minister explained that at that time, the statement of property should contain such information that it was not possible to obtain this data. Well, what's gonna happen next, the bill doesn't seem like it's gonna happen anymore. But it seems, in general, that the whole of this law is based on this approach: when we have some high positions, it is at a certain cost. It's true, isn't it? This cost also costs, we know it well, our families, our loved ones. And here, at this extra cost, it would be precisely this need to present this information. But, of course, the justification that is given in this matter from the very beginning is greater transparency, greater transparency of public life because, as we know, certain assets can be hidden in one way or another by shifting them to loved ones. And that, you might say, was the basis of the argument behind this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u109	You're asking Senator Dowhan a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u110	Thank you very much. I'd just like to clarify something. Are underage persons, or up to the age of eighteen, certainly not subject to this provision of information, even if they have property? That's one thing. Secondly, it's what Senator Rotnicka asked you. If a son, daughter, or person, as this is called, who lives together refuses to provide such data, what will be the consequences? We don't know that today. But what does it mean we don't know? Will they be hunted, locked up, arrested? Will there be a home check? What do you mean, we don't know? Well, we need to know what the punishment is for that. Because if there's no punishment, then why the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u111	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, first of all, it has been assured that the bill does not apply to minors or children of minors. I'm just saying what happened at the committee meeting here. And when it comes to... Oh, by the way, since you're talking about people living together, And this was also mentioned at the committee's meeting. Not so much about people living together, but about, I quote, people living together. It is a concept which, as explained, already exists in the law and concerns people living together, who are in the economic and emotional community, if I remember correctly. 'Cause that's how I recall it. And that means something specific. In particular, the point is that this concept exists, as I say, in other legislation, as was mentioned during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u113	Are there any further questions? Senator Comfort, then Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u114	Yeah, just to stop bothering Senator Radziwiłł, I'd like to ask the rapporteur of the majority... Minorities. Oh, yeah, that's a minority. Excuse me, rapporteur for the minority. Since the senator is the rapporteur for minorities, I understand that the senator voted in favour of this excellent solution. I would therefore like to ask you about the following situation. Since we're supposed to include children's property in these statements, I'd like to ask you something. If my child is married or married, but he remains separated from his spouse, I would like to know that, Mr. Senator, I would like you to answer me because you voted in favour of this bill. Am I supposed to report my child's wife's separate assets? Well, I understand that from now on, if we pass this bill, I'm going to have to report... If I'm left with my wife, I'll have to report it. Will it also be necessary to report the property of a separate wife or husband of a child?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u115	Dear Senator, I would like to correct and clarify two things. I didn't get a chance to vote in favour because this vote didn't happen. Hence the minority's conclusion. The first vote was against. I did not vote in favour, I voted against. But you voted against. That's the key question. As a lawyer, you know what the rapporteur's role is all about. This is a presentation of what happened at the meeting. I understand your questions are legitimate. You would like an explanation on my part, so my private position in this regard. At the very least, I can relate to whether there was some discussion in the course of the application of minorities. There was no discussion during the submission of the minority proposal. Just so we understand each other. But, of course, I'll try one thing... I only report this one issue. No, no. I... The report concerns the request submitted and, if necessary, what was at the meeting. Questions that concern interpretation and clarity of these provisions... I'd ask you to ask their government representatives, designers. I'd like to ask... But let me quote a passage, if you'll excuse me, regarding your question. I think that this should be... The Act introduces the obligation to make statements of property relating not only to personal property and property covered by the marital property association of the person obliged to make a statement, as in the current legal state, but also to read paragraph 2 of the personal property and covered by the marriage property association... I think this answer partially dispels your doubts. That's all I have to say about the question. Can I ask you a question, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u116	The senator continues. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u117	I have no doubt that the rule that you found in the two of you concerns your spouse. No, kids. Kids? Yes. Kids. Is it? Uh-huh. So that includes... So the answer is... No. That it doesn't? The answer to your question is no. Doesn't it? Yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u118	Thank you. Now you're asking Senator Rotnick a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u119	Thank you very much. I think you're... Is that a question for me? Yes. I don't think you're gonna answer me. Perhaps the government side will have something to say here. Namely, didn't you consider such a possibility that by law you could ventilate all senators and their families as well? We'd go back to a long time ago, and it wouldn't be a problem. We wouldn't have a problem with the estate statement, because the proper servants themselves would be interested in everything. Haven't you thought about something like that? Senator, could you define the word "ventilate"? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Artificial breathing, ventilation. I'll tell you if you don't understand. Look at our income, look at our family ties. That's what you used to do. It wasn't easy...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u120	Senator, of course. There were various suggestions for various solutions that could improve this bill in the future. The Ministry confirmed that maybe in perspective... For today it's kind of the best solution, the kind that gives transparency. Of course, some of the doubts that arise were also about previous solutions, but we are still able to enforce as public persons in this statement fairly reliable information. There is a message here that in other cases it will be the same. I think that was the ministry's intention. This was considered reasonable and logical in the Senate space. Yeah, but the conclusion was to reject it. And it wasn't confirmed in the vote. That is why I and several Senators of Law and Justice have been asked by minorities to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u121	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u122	Mr. Senator... It's for me, isn't it? Senator Infantry, of course, because you're the rapporteur. You're proposing to adopt this law without amendment. I would therefore like you to explain whether there have been discussions on what the concept of "common living" means with a Member or a Senator means? Feelings... Let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, With an emotional element. Yes. Was it discussed? Yeah, that subject was... [[Then explain to me what that means.]] Of course. Because I understand what it means to have a common holding that you are on a common holding. What about sharing? But with the emotional element... Tell me what that means. How many times do you have to live, how many times do you have to live, how many times do you have to live, how many times do [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, we're gonna have to write the truth, be subject to the criminal code. So these terms are very important. They have to be strict.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u123	There were doubts about this concept. On the part of the Ministry, a declaration has been made that this concept already has its legal interpretation in the judgments of the court and already operates in the legislation. So that no one asked more precisely how this should be interpreted, this statement was considered fully competent. The question was made by Senator Dowhan. The other senators had no doubt. I don't feel obliged to explain, as I understand it. As I understand it, the concept already exists in the legal system. I'll ask the Minister, of course. As I understand it, he'll explain. 'Cause I've got... Well, I can have different definitions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u124	That's next, Mr. Marshal. Yeah, yeah. Now, Senator Comfort. I think that the attempt of this explanation was quite logically presented by Senator Radziwiłł. You're welcome, Senator Comfort. And Senator Radziwiłł is able to explain, Mr. Rapporteur, what does common consumption mean? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u125	Mr. Marshal, I just answered that question, so I'm surprised you're asking it a second time. Exactly, literally the same question. Yeah, but... The Penal Code uses this concept and it has, as Senator Infantry said, numerous interpretations are used every day, because it is useful in various analyses, responsibilities, etc. I mean, from memory, I call you back. A common residence, a community of economic interests, running a joint farm and an emotional community. Well, it's... Again, it was explained. Good. And it doesn't appear in the law for the first time, no, that concept already exists... Good. ...is simply repeated. [[And without an emotional community, there's nothing in common?]] There isn't. So they can live together, have business together, run a farm... What if they don't love each other? Mr. Marshal, that's the definition. [[Thank you. I see. I'll ask...]] As I understand it, it's not by law, it's by understanding the law... Yeah, but there are comments that point to that. I checked it myself. Because the Minister explained it, but I checked it out. On the Internet, it's easy to read, which is what it means. And it just means what I said. Each of these 3 elements must be met.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u126	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u127	As if, after this interesting discussion, I would just like to ask both rapporteurs to express my satisfaction that, at least in terms of penalisation, partnerships, including single-sex ones, in some way, through the back door, have been accepted by this law. And I hope you gentlemen realize what you voted for, at least in this regard. And my question is about something else, about what we have in our opinion. Was there a discussion about this? And how was the Legal Office's doubts answered? Well, we read here: "In view of the above, that is, all the arguments that the Legislative Office points out there, it must be stated that the bill in question imposes an obligation on us, on you, to make a statement, sanctioned, impossible to comply with." Here is an example: life is rich - we are separated, we are divided. We have had examples of this, also from the lives of public people who have even hated their spouses... Ex-boyfriends. No, present. This is very often the case, even in this Chamber we had such examples and in the Seym. And now I'd like to know how you can assemble... What's more, you can hate each other with children. It happens like this. Life experience indicates that this is what happens. Now I'd like to ask you how the senator will be sure that the information he gives you is true or not true. Does this person, according to this law, have any sanction for giving false messages? Whether a spouse or a spouse who remains in the separation of property that you just don't want to think about for a while and who will make such a statement to you... And you're gonna fold it and it's not gonna be true. How can you avoid criminal sanctions? And that's a question for both gentlemen. I'd like to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u128	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u129	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, Mr. Counselor, I'm a little embarrassed, but it's taken me as long as you asked me this question as it took me to go to www.timescripta.beck. pl, i.e. on a professional legal service − it is your specialty, not mine − find information that the concept of a person in common life occurs in the article. 115 §11 of the Criminal Code. I hate to lecture you on that, but that's the way it is. And it is a magazine, a fine magazine that gives an interpretation, that says, "I'm not going to mention it now, but I'm going to read that it is a person who stays with another person in a factual relationship where there is a spiritual, emotional, physical and economic connection between them, a common household. I didn't invent it, not the Minister before, but this is something that works today... I said congratulations on calling it. And I'm sure you've been dealing with that in court a lot of times. Exactly. So the story - I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal - some guy's relationship is just inappropriate and inappropriate. Well, I'm a little sorry to even comment on your introduction to the question, because it wasn't a question. But I have to react because we're just dealing with a serious situation and telling jokes doesn't seem right. As for your question about sanctions against these people - spouses, children, etc... The answer to the question of sanctions is negative. There are no sanctions. The answer, of course, to the question of whether the information given can be verified is that there is no possibility for the person making the statement to do so. But if he has any doubts, according to what was said at the committee meeting, the person making the statement should make the appropriate annotation. As a basis for this, it has been cited that at present, among others. Senators, but also other persons from all over the long list, make a statement concerning their own property as well as their personal property and covered by the marital property of their wives and husbands. And it follows that, in fact, you can say this new regulation is not qualitative, it is quantitative. We are expanding the list of those who are covered by this statement concerning e.g. Senator, but the rule is that.. Your wife, who you could be in some kind of relationship with that you're talking about, which is bad relationships, being away from each other... You are obliged to make a statement of property, which contains information about her personal property and the property of her spouse. An example was given that... e.g. Your wife can set up an account in the bank without your knowledge, and you won't know it. Today, in the legal state that currently exists. This problem is not solved in any way to which you are going, i.e. there are no sanctions as to the truthfulness of the information provided by her today under the rule of today's law It is not possible to verify the accuracy of this information which it provides to you and which you enter into the statement of property. It can therefore be said that the proposed situation is not different from the present qualitatively, but quantitatively, i.e. In addition to the property of this wife, we will also have to enter the property of children or a person living together. And that's the only difference. So it can be said that this doubt you are talking about is already present and that does not change.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u130	The question is, Senator Dowhan... The question was also for me, but I maintain the senator's answer that under the current law this regulation also works. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The senator of the minority rapporteur mentioned that there should be greater transparency. What does it mean to increase transparency? Is she small now? Who's asking for it? Were there any objections? On the basis of which today, when the term of office ends, we impose this obligation on new Members and Senators And part of the people who are mentioned there, of course, their status doesn't change, and they're gonna give up on it. This bill? What happened that suddenly today, we're discussing transparency in five to twelve o'clock? So, she's been gone for four years, eight, ten, 20 years?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u132	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I think that's more of a question to the designer, but the answer to that question can be read in the explanatory memorandum of the law. About that today and the next five to twelve, I think there's always about five tonight and about five to twelve. This is not a special time or any special time at all. In the past, things need to be regulated and the time has come for such regulation. And we are empathized from time to time with various kinds of reports, and that I would say, inter-party, from different political backgrounds, about assets, about which there are certain doubts, whether they have been correctly reported, concerning not only people who are obliged to provide information, but also those who are close to them. It seems that's the answer. That's the problem right there. According to the statement in the explanatory memorandum, the aim is to ensure greater transparency and to eliminate possible suspicions directed towards those persons who perform public functions and to create regulations to confirm that the origins of the property acquired, not only of those persons but also of those around them, are not questionable. For me, that's an explicit answer to your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u134	You're asking Senator Rotnick a question. I'm giving up on that question because it's actually the same thing all the time. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u135	Mr Senator, rapporteur. I'm addressing Senator Radziwill. You mentioned three reasons that tell you who's in common life. There's also an emotional reason. Why don't you tell me how you can prove that emotional imperative. Did you talk about it? How can you prove that? That's the first question. Second question. Could it be that we're gonna make twice a statement? If this bill comes in quite quickly, then at the end of the term we will have to make a statement according to the old system, and then, after the entry into force of this law, we will have to make a second statement according to the new system. Am I right about this or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u136	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! As far as the first case is concerned, it seems that since the cardinals are dealing with it, because this concept is in the criminal code, the people who will check these claims will also be able to handle it. And we, the people who are mentioned there, will also be able to determine whether or not this triple community exists in relation to a person. That's where we start. I think that the question of possible command is, as we all know, more about the court to which this case will eventually go. And then we'll have to prove something or... Well, first, I'm guessing CBA... Excuse me? First, the CBA will be... Yeah, but the CBA doesn't impose penalties. It's possible he's bringing the case to the D.A.'s office. I understand, but she's gonna prove that these three things are happening. You're asking the senator... But there was one more question about whether... I'm sorry. Indeed, the answer to the second question has not yet been answered. It is a question of the date of entry into force of the Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9th Act is a provision which says that the Act enters into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. So there is no obvious and simple answer to Mr. Marshal's question, because it depends on how we adopt this bill today, whether it goes back to the Sejm or not. In fact, there are no amendments tabled at the moment, so probably not When the President takes care of her, when she signs and when she's announced. And that was the subject of discussion at the committee meeting. If this were the case, then the announcement, and then 14 days after the announcement, will be issued during the current term of office, then yes, the answer is that we will have to make declarations of property in accordance with the principles set out in this Act. If this comes up in the next parliamentary term, it will only include new Members and Senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u138	Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u139	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator... I don't know which senator will be able to answer that question. This, of course, concerns the committee's deliberations, but I have questions of nature, I would say logically. The question is whether someone raised the question of not so transparency Because it's obvious that there are pathologies and that we're trying to get out of these pathologies in different legislative ways. What is it that this legislative change causes two dangers? The first is what Senator Pociej was talking about. I mean, indeed, the verification will be on the side of the persons listed here, and in fact there will be no tool to determine whether the statement was true, which is a logical contradiction. But the second danger seems even greater to me. It is that only the children and the children of the spouse were chosen. Why, for example? Not parents, why not brothers, sisters? Why not aunt? I'm sorry, but what is it that I'm going to say, the extent to which I can interfere with the internal legislative process, so as to achieve an effect in the form of no pathology and at the same time make sense of logic? This is an internal contradiction. Of course, we want there to be no pathology and, on the other hand, we know that legislation does not provide all the possibilities in terms of the existence of pathology in public life. Did anyone notice that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u140	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As far as the first issue is concerned, I think she's been sufficiently discussed. I repeat once again that, according to the Minister's reply, in the event of doubts as to the accuracy of the data provided by these persons, that, so to speak, the dependents of the person making the statement should include some annotation When administering these data That you're not sure that it's according to the statement that it's not checked, etc. As for checking this, however, I would like to point out that all of this will be subject to official control. Both by the head of the relevant tax office, which will probably, if he has doubts, consult with the heads of the tax offices of persons who are, so to speak, the floor below and by the Central Anti-corruption Office. So it seems that this check will not be difficult. If the person in good faith provides information on which he has been misled, he/she will explain his/her case. This was discussed at a committee meeting. As regards the latter point, I don't know, maybe your senator wasn't there when I answered that question. In fact, this has already been explained. Somewhere that line has to be set. Whether it is to be placed in the place where it is proposed or even further, it is a matter of decision. I just don't think it can be that there's no limit at all. Right? There will always be a question of why in this place.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u142	Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u143	Thank you. Senator Żaryn, as if he'd told me my question. I also meant a very close family, such as siblings. I'm not talking about parents that I think you have the most confidence in if we're already considering it in these categories. Don't you think that this bill, if it's rejected, and someone who, as you say here, wants to be very transparent... I don't think there's a ban. Isn't that right, Minister? In order to add to the statement also information about the property status of children, wife, brother-in-law, brother-in-law, parents. If someone wants to be very crystal and transparent, they can attach these statements as much as they want, and the case closes. Yes? The whole list...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u144	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It wasn't really a question, and even if there was a question mark at the end, it was basically, was it not? Right? A rhetorical question. I am the rapporteur of what was at the committee meeting, and I can say that there was no proposal for an amendment extending the list of persons mentioned, for example. parents, siblings, foster siblings, mother-in-law, in-laws, brother-in-laws. There was no such conclusion, so I have nothing to report in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u146	You're asking senator Łuczak a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u147	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have this question: do you know if there are countries in Europe where such a law operates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u148	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! That's the question. I didn't write it down, unfortunately, but they were... There's one country, one country. ...named some of the few countries in which different types of regulation exist. They usually relate to a narrower circle than the one proposed here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u150	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law concerns Members, Senators and a certain category, I would call it, the governors of central offices. What about the aldermen of all levels? They're also subject to the anti-corruption bill. Why don't they be forced to disclose their assets, e.g. Children?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, here I guess the answer can only be the same as before, I mean. We took care of this circle of people, not others. It can, of course, be extended, but I understand that the initiative taken by the Prime Minister's Office concerned the circle of those who are representatives of the so-called. central authority. The answer is, of course, that it is possible to take an initiative concerning other persons covered by the obligation to make declarations of property, but such an initiative does not include this project or this law. I understand that... There was no mention of that at the committee meeting at all. ...we presume that in the case of aldermen, transparency is already sufficient, and corruption is less, right? No, Senator, this is a far-reaching conclusion. We just didn't deal with this case. The designer of this law considered that at the moment we are focusing on such a circle of people, not on others, but that does not mean that we cannot deal with other people in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u153	Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u154	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I promise you, one last question, but I didn't want to be so quick in one minute. That's also a logical question. Namely, we, as people of public life, are obliged to make declarations of property and we also have some higher security guarantees. Has there been such contradiction that the persons mentioned here do not have to be people of public life, and we expose them to the disclosure of matters which they do not have to do in the name of existing laws, which concern them, for example. Security...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u155	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I think the answer's two... First, the Act guarantees the anonymity of the persons concerned Those kids, wives, partners, right? The assets of which are covered by the declaration. Of course, it's a little up to the family. In my family, anonymity will be almost complete, because there are a lot of those people. If there's only one such person, then that anonymity will be less. The second answer concerns what was discussed or explained by the Minister. That's what I've been saying, that basically this bill is about quantitative change, not qualitative change, because so far at least some of these people have had to testify about their wives and husbands' personal property, so it's not... Since these family situations can be different, it can be easily realized that the doubt that you are talking about is already occurring right now. And this difficulty, first, with misleading, second, with the unwillingness to disclose their assets, third, with sanctions, fourth, with the truth of the data that are transmitted if these relationships are Well, how do you say that? It's not quite correct... So it's already happening, and this situation isn't changing. Also, this issue that the senator is talking about, the question of anonymity... because it can be said that the Senator's wife living separately today is actually facing the same problems today. Right? Her personal property must be disclosed, and it is not protected in a special way, let's call it that. Because he's not a public figure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u157	You're asking Senator Terminski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u158	Mr. Senator, this is how I listen to this discussion, and I just want to confirm one thing here, because I don't know if I understand correctly. I've read this bill, so I listen to your comments, I listen to my colleagues' questions, and for starters, I have a point. I have a very correct relationship with my father-in-law, and with my father. I had the perfect memory, but it never occurred to me to inform my father-in-law about my wealth. And if I understand correctly, it's my teenage son... Otherwise, as a senator, I have to make a statement about the property of my son-in-law, my daughter-in-law, because of the common property, too. And if my child sends me to say so, to the tree and tells the Father, do not interfere in any of your business, then I simply in the declaration, enter into this declaration a lack of information and nothing happens with it. Yes? Yes. Don't you think this is a slightly fictional bill? I'd like to know what's going on with this. I don't see anything unusual about my son denying me that information. I don't even have the space to verify it, because you might want to verify it, and he's gonna say, "No, father, I'm not gonna tell you." I'm not telling you anything at all. And then what?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u159	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm in a bit of an awkward situation, because I'm reporting on what happened at the committee meeting, and as committee rapporteur, I'm trying to include as little as possible my own argument, because this is not exactly where I'm supposed to be doing something like this. Right? I report some doubts and answers. This subject, which you raised, has already been discussed here several times. I quote again what has been said. It's the same way about your wife, I mean. If you have an incorrect relationship between you, she may have a separate account and not inform you of his condition, you may be misled, and yet you have already, under the applicable laws, an obligation to include this in your property statement. Thus, the situation does not, in principle, change. Relationships between adult children and their parents can be as good or bad as relationships between husband and wife or husband and wife. And it seems to be a very serious argument. The answer is common to all. This is the cost that a person who accepts to be in a group of power-holders, which, as you know, there are temptations associated with all kinds of irregularities, especially in the area of corruption, simply takes on himself. If I can't take that kind of money, then... After all, there is no obligation to be a senator, an MEP, a minister, etc., etc. Right? If someone feels that his property situation is unclear and family relationships are difficult or has other unpleasant things he doesn't want to be discussed, he just shouldn't, as it's said, push himself on the stage. This is the reality that we all experience. We are deprived of privacy, and in a sense this applies to our families as well. This is today's reality. In a way. It's an agreement, a step in this direction, it goes on, but it doesn't change the rule.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u161	The question is Senator Spider. Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I just want to ad vocem... But... Please, Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u162	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. This is the bill from the government's submission. Yes? Yes. And what exactly did the Ministry come up with this project? Which Ministry and which Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u163	The law firm of the Prime Minister. But the government is the designer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u164	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u165	Senator rapporteur, I see a serious contradiction in the implementation of this law, which I would like to ask you if it was discussed. If an adult child, an adult son, a daughter who is responsible for herself, is over 18 years old, refuses to give information about the property, then the situation is clear, then the lack of data will enter. But if such an adult child does not give the truth, for which he is not responsible, then a senator or a Member who gives the wrong one, that is to say, is responsible for the criminal code. Have you discussed this contradiction, this responsibility of the senator and an MP for adults?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u166	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u167	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Marshal, I have the impression that I have already said that, according to the explanations made by the Minister in principle in this kind of statement concerning others, the person making the statement is responsible for knowledge rather than facts. I mean, if you have, in short, this was the explanation of the doubts about the accuracy of the statement e.g. Your adult child, you should include this in this statement as additional information. As an argument for such a solution, it was stated that today, also in the statements of property of many public persons, there are such annotations as if they were not directly derived from the form, but are in fact complementary. They show, as if descriptively, that we have some doubts, e.g. on various special property situations, because it is e.g. fall to divide, and yet some final decisions are not taken, etc. You just have to give it to the best of your knowledge. At the same time, I note that neither the tax office or the head of the tax office nor the Central Anti-corruption Office nor any authority, e.g. Marshal of the Senate, they don't have the authority to sanction the person making the statement. If there are doubts as to the truth, then this case will simply be conducted in the usual manner, where there will be room for explanations, for command, for the submission of evidence that the marshal has already spoken of, and under no circumstances will this end with automatic punishment or exclusion or deprivation of office. That was the explanation, and it seems that they are quite rational.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u168	So, going further along this line of thinking, you have to protect yourself. When it is suspected that the child has misled the parents, you must protect yourself. Does that mean you have to report it to the CBA? I mean, how do you protect yourself, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u169	Do you want to answer that, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u170	Mr. Marshal, the answer... How do you protect yourself? ...there's one thing: we didn't discuss it. Thank you very much. Okay... That's probably too far-reaching an interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u171	You're asking Senator Terminski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u172	Mr. Senator, I'd like to go back to that question, because you've so skillfully turned the issue around, about the responsibility of public people, about the property of spouses. I draw attention to the fact that, at the moment, spouses' assets are declared when they are in a property union, not when they are in a separate property. And in the case of children, the daughter-in-law is talking about a separate property at all. And my question is simple, and I really expect a simple answer: if I enter the lack of data in this property declaration, there will be no consequences?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u173	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, that's a possibility the bill doesn't provide for, so... Yeah, that's right. Exactly. But what does "no" mean? If he doesn't give me the data, I won't know. You want me to guess? I have such a situation today that my son lives abroad. What, you want me to hire a detective to see how many cars he's got? Well, he won't give me the data and that's it. What am I gonna do to him? Mr. Senator, well... The question is clear... ...I'm going back to the example I gave. Analogical situations may occur at the moment, under the current rules... Sorry, Mr. Senator, he can't perform... ...if it were to happen that your wife is abroad, she's got some cars and she won't tell you about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u175	Mr. Senator, he can't make an appearance because today we're only declaring common assets, not separate assets. And parents with children don't make up a common property, they make up a separate property. The property... Also personal property. So please don't mix different concepts... Your wife can go to the bank... Personal property is my underpants, for apologizing, not a fortune...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u176	Mr. Senator, your wife... Mr. Senator, wait... ...maybe go to the bank and set up his account. I'm asking you a simple case. Your wife can set up her account today, deposit a lot of money on it, not inform you and you, by making a claim on her property, fall into the same trap. As far as the joint assets are concerned. I... No, no. I'm not questioning that. As regards common assets Yeah. And if she starts an account where she's gonna keep the money as a separate asset, that's her money. And they have nothing to do with my estate statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u177	Mr. Senator, this is a discussion... I'm asking the question... ...please sign up for the discussion. The question was clear... Mr. Marshal, I'd like an answer to that question. The answer was given. The next question is Mr. Senator Czerwinski. That's what he's gonna be responsible for. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Well, you're making some kind of... I don't know what to call it, to be honest, but also a delicate abuse. Well, it's normal in Poland. I'm talking about it, generally speaking, but there are exceptions This is the situation when a husband lives with his wife and runs a common household. Knowing your wife's assets... well, you have to be extraordinarily unraveled so you don't know what kind of property your wife owns, whether shared or divided, or personal, etc. So it's a typical condition. But it's something else. And here the normal state is precisely the opposite of the situation when adult children who have their own lives lead a separate household. I suspect that if we were to question you here now, most of you would not know what the resources of your children are. Mr. Senator, question, please. The question is: why do we identify these two categories when these are different categories? That is why all of the problems you are talking about here arise. Perhaps this will also indicate that, when it comes to the wealth of living children, as it is said, on their own, all will simply write: I have no information. That will be the effect of this law. Aren't you afraid of that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u179	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We discussed this, and without any abuse, I can give an explanation that speaks to me personally. Well, there's a situation that you call abnormal when your spouses hide parts of their property from each other, and that's a fact. I say 'unfortunately 'cause I think And that's where I agree with you. It's bad, it's bad, it's bad, but it happens. It happens, and it's not that rare. Well, on the same principle, that's why I call it a quantitative change, not a qualitative change, in the same way there are problems on the one hand, and on the other hand there are no problems as to the property of these other people. It seems that this explanation is correct and, at the same time, I draw attention to the fact that there is no automatic sanction here. So if, in the course of the investigation conducted by the tax office or the CBA, the information we have entered in the statement is false, then there will simply be a place and time to explain. Explains why this happened, who misled whom. The fact is that the law does not provide any liability to such a person, an adult child, who has given us false information. This isn't planned. Well, there might be an amendment to this bill, but no one's proposed it. So the condition is that we are to obtain this information, and that person has no obligation to give it or to give it in a real way. Therefore, That's how I pictured it. If someone proves that this was the case, that he was misled, he will not be harmed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u181	You're asking Senator Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish state has a duty to conduct pro-family policy, which results from the Constitution. I would like to ask: do these laws which are designed not cause large-scale family conflicts and, therefore, do they not oppose the constitutional provisions, namely family protection? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u183	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, there was no mention of that at the committee meeting, no one's ever thought of that. I can only say, referring to what Senator Czerwiński said about normal marriage and abnormal marriage, by analogy, that in my opinion, if everything is okay in the family, it will be no problem getting this information, and if it is different, what happens in marriage too, then there may be problems. However, I see no reason to believe that the question of wealth, given to a son or daughter, will cause conflict in the family. That's a very far-reaching conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u185	You're asking Senator Terminski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u186	Mr. Senator, you're still quoting an example of a wife whose wealth we need to know. So that we can use the same conceptual sets, maybe we can start with one thing. Do you understand the difference between a common property and a separate property, understood as legal concepts? Do you understand the difference? The question should be the subject of the committee's deliberations. It is true, because we are always talking about common and separate property, and the senator is always asking about the property of separate children, and he is stubbornly talking about the property of a common wife. Well, as far as the question goes... Then rephrase this question, Senator. That's the question. Mr. Senator says... Mr. Senator, I'm not attacking you. You have an ungrateful role in defending a weak bill, but you insist that this is just a quantitative extension, not a qualitative one. And I would like to point out that this is an extension mainly of quality, because it concerns a huge catalogue of people who live somewhere in the world today. We as Members and Senators are to submit information on their assets, even though we are not even able to verify it. Mr. Senator, the question is... Please formulate the question. My question is: did you discuss that this law is really a fictional law? It's been asked to notice that 99% responds that he has no knowledge, or writes: no data. Don't you think this bill will be a fictional bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u187	Please respond, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, I have the impression that you've given an opinion rather than asked a question. And that first question makes me feel a little agitated because it's not a law exam. I'm not taking the exam. I'm just reporting on the committee meeting. I think it was a little inappropriate to ask that first question. The last question was a thesis question, so let me not answer it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u189	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u190	I'm glad the senator made that statement à about the examination, because you tried to examine me earlier. But I'd like to ask if there was talk about this situation. If this obligation covers actual joint consumption, is there a specified time limit? How much do you really have to have intercourse? What to do about the situation where a cohabitant moves out in December, returns in January and lives in the following year? Well, these pretty simple questions come up, because it's just very easy to circumvent this bill. Did anyone ask that question at the committee meeting? And second question. Mr. Senator here has said many times that today is the case that if your wife doesn't say anything, we're in the same situation. Then you said that if this bill came into force, we would be able to extract ourselves, saying that we had not received such information. On the basis of that, I have two questions. Have you seen our... Because you're saying these are the same situations that we shouldn't complain about because we're already dealing with something like this. Have you ever seen in the last 30 years a statement in which any senator wrote that he didn't get that kind of information? That's one thing. Second, did you ask the question... Well, that's what you're arguing. Can I make such a statement on the basis of today's regulations that I haven't been informed? And my third question is, where is it written in this bill? What exactly is the paragraph? I don't know, because I didn't get that kind of information?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u191	Please, Mr. Senator. Three questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'll start from the end so I don't forget. As for this exculpation, of course I am not familiar with any senator's statement of the last 30 years, in which the senator would declare that he does not know what his wife's estate is. But I wouldn't be so sure that any senator making a statement giving information in a statement... He could have... No, he couldn't have made a mistake. Maybe he didn't include information that was hidden by his wife. I wouldn't be so sure about that anymore. Rather, I suppose something else might have happened, which means that there have been cases in which the senator's wife or husband hid some wealth that something wasn't included in the statement despite the rules that apply, that something just didn't find in such a statement. I think it might have happened. I think if... I don't know about this case, but it's not a matter of knowing I didn't. If, for example. as a result of some proceedings, it turned out that some property was hidden from the declarer, I'm sure of it. In proper proceedings, the court would have found the innocence of the person who declared it wrong. I'm convinced of that because I don't know anything about being thrown in jail for them. But that's my conviction. Right? With regard to your first question, not about intercourse, but about those living together. Let's be precise, there are these terms. And the impermanence of the relationship, it was such questions. The answer was very simple. We make a statement on a specific date and on a specific date we have to testify how many funds in gold or other currency we have in our account. The next or the last day, this amount could be different, but we're not testifying. Even if we get some very big paycheck in the meantime, there won't be one in the estate statement. It'll only be in the next statement if, or maybe so, that money doesn't come out of our account in the meantime. It's possible, and there's a dead field, something we're obviously not going to report in property statements. This is e.g. information about the money that I'm going to say passed through our account. It's possible. Analogical situation is in the case of a person living together. If such a person is on the day on which the statement is made, then it is necessary to make a statement about her property. If there's no such person at the moment, then no. This was the subject of a question and an answer at a committee meeting. Shortly, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u193	The senator asked and it's already...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u194	No, no. Speaking of what the senator said, I just want to say one thing. There's a whole category of crimes called formal crimes. That's where we don't check guilt, will, etc., just to see if anything's true or false. And unfortunately, it's also a crime... But we're here to ask questions, Mr. Senator. ...will eventually be in this category. There's no way to say I forgot. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u195	We're here to ask questions. The list of people asking has been exhausted. Thank you, Senators rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The vice-president of the Council of Ministers, Mr Jacek Sasin, was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Mr Tomasz Szczegielniak, Secretary of the Council of Ministers, Undersecretary of State, is present with us. Would the Minister like to speak on this matter? You're welcome to the bleachers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comprehensive answers to such a large number of questions. I think they have indeed exhausted the scope of the committee meeting. These were the exact same questions that were raised at the committee meeting and which were answered. Mr. Senator was very precise, very clear about these things. I would just like to say, add, that the applicant is the government, because here we have a question about which ministry is the applicant. Where a draft law comes from a government side, the applicant is always a government. Of course, the main subject of the discussion at the committee's meeting and here is the scope of the declarations of property, the extension of the statement of property to data on personal property and property, children of their own, children of their spouses, adopted children and persons living together. As for this last category, because there was a discussion on this subject, I would just like to add, confirm what Senator Radziwiłł said. This is already contained in the legislation, in Article. 115 §11 of the Criminal Code. The person remaining in the common life is one of the persons listed as the nearest person. There is no formal definition, but the Supreme Court stated in this case, which, in its 7-person composition on 25 February 2016, concluded that it was included in the article. 115 §11 of the Penal Code The return of the person remaining in common life defines a person who remains with another person in such a factual relationship, in which there are at the same time spiritual, emotional, physical and economic ties between them, that is, a common household. So I think it's clarified. Of course, there were doubts about the acquisition of knowledge about the assets of loved ones. Well, I can say the same thing you said to the senator and what the discussion was about. Indeed, this may be difficult, but It's like the senator said. Also in the case of spouses covered by a property partnership, this may be the case now. And it doesn't have to be about a family where their spouses don't live together. There is a very simple situation: we have a common account, the wife takes money for some reason from this account, pays to another account, e.g. a better interest rate that a husband may not know about. He doesn't see it, he doesn't ask his wife, and then he makes a statement in the estate that doesn't necessarily match the truth. But this issue is being investigated by the chiefs of the IRS, the case is explained and doesn't have to give birth, and it doesn't give birth. There have been cases, as far as I know. No criminal consequences foreseen for the submission of a non-true statement of property. When it comes to a circle of people like this, not another, or children, generally children, wife and her separate property, and a person living together, this is just how it was accepted. Indeed, there is always a dilemma of the legislator, where to set a limit, how to construct rules, what to include in a given provision. In that case, we'd practically always have... Well, it would be hard to regulate something legally. As far as doubts are concerned, I think that they were as much as possible, disbanded at the committee meeting. I believe that here, too, the Senator rapporteur explained all the points in a quite precise manner. So much for what I said. Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteurs warmly. for taking on a little responsibility to clarify these provisions. Just one more thing, because here actually... Well, those closest to you are not responsible for any of this. But it is not so that, if a compound statement of property is written, according to the knowledge gained from the son/daughter, it will have no further consequences. Well, because the bill introduces a search for property claims by the IRS. Of course, there is no such obligation, not every statement of property must be examined, but it is possible. And they can also be checked by the Central Office for Corruption. And in this respect, the law is implementing what is the aim of the legislator, namely to ensure transparency and to make sure that any media information doesn't come up, only... Plus, there are established services that verify such issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u197	Thank you, Minister. Please remain for a moment, as the senators may now submit questions to the representative of the government relating to this item. Any of you senators want to come in? Senator Rybicki reporting first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u198	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about one of the key issues that was raised during the questions, namely the situation in which an undertaking to make a statement will make a statement based on a statement from a related person, e.g. A son or a daughter... And I will merely remind you that when we sign a statement of property, we declare: "This statement is made consciously/aware that on the basis of the article. 233 §1 of the Penal Code for misrepresentation or concealment of the truth is punishable by imprisonment. I would ask you to remind us, for how many years, and tell us what the minister thinks is the responsibility of the person who makes such a statement when, as a result of the CBA study... when the CBA concludes that the statement of the obliged person... or the senator's statement, in good faith... the information he has provided is based on the statements of the children... What is the situation of the Member and the Senator when such circumstances arise as regards his criminal liability?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u199	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u200	I have the impression that the answer to this question has been given. No. This criminal responsibility will ultimately be decided by the court.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u201	You're asking Senator Terminski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u202	After your earlier statement, Minister, it was clear that you had prepared yourself for these questions, because your answers sound more or less like the answers of Senator Radziwiłł, whom I admire that he tried to defend this legislative bubble for an hour at all costs. Nevertheless, I would expect you to answer the consequences that I, as a senator, are threatening to put in the box regarding the property of my son and daughter-in-law, lack of data.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u203	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u204	Mr. Senator, I also answered that question earlier. Could you repeat the consequences? 'Cause I'd like to hear it. I'm talking about the situation where I'm typing "no data," the words "no data." The consequences of making a false statement are decided by the court, and the services concerned have examined it in advance. And, as the senator said here, if there are doubts as to the accuracy of the declaration of property, the case is referred by the Central Anti-corruption Office to the prosecution and then the appropriate proceedings are conducted. And please also... Well, you want to do me a favor, or do you want me to... You came here with the bill, so we're listening. Mr. Senator, the statement you're making is a statement of knowledge. Also in today's state of law, you can make a statement of knowledge that is not necessarily true, and then the court decides... that the appropriate services will verify that you have made this statement truthfully. If they are in doubt, the case shall be directed towards normal judicial proceedings and the court shall rule whether or not it has been so. Exactly. So the court is going to investigate if I had the data, or if I didn't have the data? No, the court will rule if you've made a statement that's true.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u205	You're asking Senator Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. First. If the child refuses to provide the data, could it be an oral refusal, could it be a written refusal? What if it's written, or notarized, or in some other way? The second question concerns a broadly understood family support policy, but it is not so easy to extend from one's spouse to another. Me, for example. I've always asked my wife if she's okay with it, and I've never asked my children, ever. Is this not the case, then, with excessive interference in family relations? One that's gonna be conflictogenic. If I have several children, and these children are grown up and are related to other people, have husbands, wives, etc., then we include in this either at times, if someone has more children, dozens of people who have to talk about their property. It's a huge interference in family relationships. Have you considered it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u207	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u208	Mr Senator, as far as the answer to the first question is concerned, of course the oral answer is sufficient, as has been the case so far in the case of making statements of property. Senators or Members who are required to make a declaration of property do not obtain this information either in the form of a notarial act. Louder. As for the second question, I believe the answer was given by your senator. Deciding to perform certain functions - specific functions - because this law includes those who perform the highest functions in the State, including, of course, senators and Members who are the emanation of the legislative authority and are the central body - these persons choose to have some kind of difficulty in doing so, but also have some kind of powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u209	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u210	Minister, these questions that are repeated, they are digging up the subject of this law and they are digging up this issue. Don't be surprised, because it's going to concern us, and that's... I'm not surprised, Senator. I'm answering. Thank you. And also what you're saying here... It is possible that we will present these explanations as explanations of the doubts we have before the authorities dealing with these statements. So... because not only is there an important letter of law, but also an intention and what you're saying right now. Therefore, Minister, do you not see any legal contradiction in a situation where an adult child gives an untruth, and a parent giving this untruth can answer criminally? Don't you see here that a parent is responsible for an adult child? 'Cause that's okay. I mean, according to the laws in force... Up to five years in prison. Yeah, threat. Up to five years in prison. Thank you. [[Secretary of the Council of Ministers Tomasz Szgielniak: Good. Have you...]] I'm done.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u211	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u212	I understand that this situation may not only concern the child, but also the spouse, because then you are also responsible. I would just like to draw attention - because the senators of the Civic Platform are criticizing this... No, no. ...that Members of the Civic Platform in May 2019 submitted a draft law amending the Act on the limitation of the conduct of business by public office holders and there the Member State is asking for an extension of the scope of the submission of a statement of property to the property of a separate spouse. A wife, yes, but not a child, Minister. And if this bill had come here to the Senate, we would have discussed it in the same way and asked questions, because... Mr. Senator, I think... Well, that's it. I asked you a question... I think I answered that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u213	Thank you, Minister. Now you're asking Senator Dowhan a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u214	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Several times it has been said, inter alia, by the rapporteur senator, Mr Radziwiłł, that we do not enter children's property under the age of eighteen. Can you tell me the rule in the law that refers to it? Because I can't find it. I'm digging, digging, digging, digging, digging,
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u215	It must be clarified here, of course, that if there is such a property, it should be entered.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u216	No, Minister, either yes or no. It's said here that you don't point, but you don't say anything... If I don't point... E.g. The kid's got a piggy bank, got some money for communion, and if I don't point it out, that's the problem. It's not about the money box. He might have an inheritance. Well, he might have an inheritance, for example. After Grandpa.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u217	Maybe not collectively these questions... One at a time. Does the Minister want to complete the answer? No, thank you, I've already answered. Thank you, Minister. Senator Rotnick is asking you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u218	Thank you. I would like to refer to the statements of Senator Szymanski, who very rightly pointed out the consequences we may have when dealing with several children. But actually I would also like to share the opinion that, in the case of this proposed act, I see some apparent activity which is to cover some of the activities of people associated with the current ruling formation, i.e. Some dishonesty, some cover-up of some financial matters... This concerns both the President of the Council of Ministers and the current President of NIK. So far, there have been no such problems, as has the HEAD law. Senator, ask me a question. But I'm just asking because... There's no question so far. This would not be the case if there was honesty on the part of those who make such statements of property. And there wouldn't be a discussion. Minister, please accept that. And tell me if it is or if it isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u219	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u220	Mrs. Member, this is an opinion. It is difficult for me to comment on this opinion. But when it comes to doubts about making statements, I can mention e.g. Former Member, Mr Sławomir Nowak, whom even the court ruled against guilt, and yesterday it was announced that he had resigned from his duties. A few weeks ago, the Ukrainian anti-corruption agency informed that Sławomir Nowak did not include 189 thousand hryvnia in its 2017 property declaration, i.e. the equivalent of about PLN 30,000. Of course, I'm giving it to you as information from the media. When it comes to other cases, I'll remind you. the case of the former Minister of Sport, Mr Andrzej Biernat, and doubts about his purchase of a plot that was not covered by the estate and which was transferred to his daughter. Well, there were all kinds of doubts about making statements of property. And among others. in order to obtain transparency on this matter, the applicant submitted this draft.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u221	The senator wants to continue? Yes. Next question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u222	Mr. Minister, you've come back to life so much at this moment... But there's one more thing I'd like to say. Our property statements are public. Don't you think that if we give in these statements how much money our children have, our citizens will actually come to information that shouldn't be publicly available? After all, our children are separate adults who already have their households, their children, their families. And it's just unauthorized...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u223	The question is clear. Please, the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u224	When it comes to children's personal data, they are, of course, anonymous. Well, such a decision was taken by the legislator that a full statement of property, or part A, concerning personal and marital property, as well as the part concerning the assets of the closest ones, is to be made public. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u225	Thank you very much. Who's asking the question now? Senator Komarnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, we've been here two hours and some senators are asking questions with disbelief. We have found something that probably in the near future reasonable people, perhaps our successors, will withdraw. I think it's a shy bill. My question to you is: does the government have any knowledge, is there a country in the world, and especially in Europe, which has similar laws as the one you are proposing now? Yes, one Hungary.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u227	Mr. Senator, have you asked a question yet? Yes. Good. Thank you very much. Then I'll have Senator Aleksander Pociej... Wait a minute, Minister. Mr. Senator, you're asking a question, too. Yes? Yeah, yeah. There you go. So far, there's been one question after that, which is why... Yeah, but I changed...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u228	Yes, of course, each marshal has his own... Minister, you have repeatedly... Earlier, Senator Radziwiłł, referring to your words, said this: today we have such a situation that there is uncertainty... And we have such uncertainty. But instead of working to remove this uncertainty, you're expanding it. This argument drives me crazy because the state shouldn't... We should act in accordance with clear rules, and we create traps so that someone can push us into them. And that's why I think this is a terrible argument, the one you're using... Question, Mr. Senator. My question is this. If I understand correctly... I don't want to go into any debate with Senator Radziwiłł, but the senator, referring to... the minister was at the committee meeting. Yes? Yes. Senator Radziwiłł, referring to the information received from the government, said that if I did not obtain this information from my child or from my spouse, then somehow I could explain my situation that I did not enter... Answering a similar question earlier, the Minister said this: the court will consider it. That was my question. Minister, we should be fairly briefed on the matter, as we are talking here, and say, if you write that you don't know, then you go to court... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course you did, because the organ... you said the court would decide. So there's no obligation to send... Then it's a trash bill, because anyone can write: I didn't get the information. She's not gonna work. It's not true that... can you guarantee that typing I don't know, I didn't get the information from a kid, that I wouldn't be held liable?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u229	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. And the Minister will answer your questions. And Mr. Szymanski reporting...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister. The first case concerns the subject matter. You also represent the applicants, not just... sorry, not the applicants, but the designers of this bill. Explain to me why councillors have been removed from this area. Is it because there's a lot of them? Why is this subjective scope for tightening rules only applicable to selected categories of persons and not to all those who are subject to the anti-corruption law? That's the first question. Second question. You're making a major breach. However, this is a qualitative change, not a quantitative change. Someone else are people living with me in my household, children, even adult children, wife Because if we run a common household, we are able to know about our income, at least with due diligence, and someone else are grown children who lead separate lives in other cities with which we meet for holidays occasionally. Well, that depends on the quality of family relationships, whether we know and how much we know about their material situation, whether we want to know everything to the end. Not to mention that there are still people, for example. in a relationship with a child who, well, can have their own wealth... The question is: in which laws in Poland are the influence of people who run other households, on the property of persons on a given farm, in another... I don't know if I've made myself clear. Which laws in Poland, e.g. in the field of social assistance, etc., take into account the wealth of persons who are in another household, live separately from the person concerned?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u231	Okay, thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u232	About the uncertainty... I didn't tell you. I'm addressing Senator Pociej. Maybe that's where I'll start. I was just reporting on the state that is now. And don't do me any favors and tell me not to do the court. My answer to the question of liability before the court was in a specific context. I didn't say anything that if information was entered that someone had made a statement in a given area according to his knowledge, then the case could automatically go to criminal proceedings. As far as the countries are concerned... Well, for example. in Hungary, the obliged person and his/her relatives, persons residing jointly in the household must complete the form of the statement of property annexed to the Act. But... Well, the question was, what's it like in other countries? In Lithuania, spouses of persons with certain functions... As far as their assets are concerned, a statement of property must also be made. Slovenia also has a similar situation. The matter needs to be dealt with if it is a transfer of property or income to family members in order to avoid the legal situation. And as far as I'm concerned... Thank you very much for your reply, Minister, because here's a painting... As to why the councilmen weren't included here... Well, it's been decided on this, not another directory of people, I've already given answers in this area, as well as the Senator's answers. These are those who have the most important functions in the country, including Members and Senators, as they are very important from a political, state and social point of view. In which legislation is the impact of people closest to you on the situation of a person? Well, in the criminal code, for example. That's where it says who's closest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u233	Thank you very much. Yes, Senator? I'd like to ask you a question. But there's a line, Mr. Senator. Of course. I'm checking in. Good. Thank you. Now you're asking Senator Terminski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u234	Minister, your next statements show absolute disrespect for this country. Senator Komarnicki asks you, in which country children, sons-in-law, daughter-in-law... and you answer that in Lithuania your spouse must submit. But... Well, you're just trying to play crazy with us all the time. I'll get to the question, because that was my point. The question is, you will be able to express your opinions in the discussion. Ask me a question. The question is this. And it is the continuation of Senator Dowhan's question, from which you also got off like a snake, so as not to answer that question. Earlier, the committee's report made it clear that there was no need to make a statement on the assets held by underage children. And here's my question: do you think it's logical that we don't make a statement about underage children for whom we're responsible, and we're supposed to make a statement about adult children for which we're not responsible? Do you think that's logical? Is this consistent with the way in which this country is made?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u235	The bill is precise, it's about children's property. This isn't about underage children. He talks about children's property, because in fact underage children can also have a wealth that is managed by legal guardians.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u236	Okay, thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Yeah, that's why I asked. I've been through this bill several times because I'm a member of this committee, and I haven't found a record of children, so I was very surprised that if my son has a fortune, and he's missing one day until he's an adult, so... It's my fault... No, Mr. Senator, it's not a matter of... And yet you fought bravely, Minister. Here's my question. I asked you that question... I think you did your homework because I asked it at the committee meeting yesterday. It is known that there are probably dozens of thousands of people making statements in Poland: different councillors of the place and district, voivodships, presidents, voivodships, etc., etc. Officials, mostly treasurers, check the statements. Instead of doing their other work, they're digging, checking the books, writing questions to the banks. Well, I'm talking to the officials, and they say that when these statements come down on April 30th, they're going to start a horror movie because they have to go over and over and over and over again and check out and write out reports that somebody's wrong about something. Is there any information on how long it takes? How many people, how many officials are sitting on this? But first of all, what's the time to check all of this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u238	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Relationships between parents and children are not always model. I imagine that a child or a child will answer that they will not give such information, but then, once the report has been completed, they blackmail their father or mother who are senators or messengers, claiming that they will say in court or in the competent authority that they have nevertheless provided this information and that they are addicted to it, for example. from how a father or mother will vote on specific matters. Vote or behave. That is how it is possible to influence Parliament through children who blackmail their parents. Did you foresee such effects of this law? Mrs. Marshal, may I?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u240	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u241	As far as these statistics are concerned, I don't know these statistics. I think it wouldn't be easy to make them, and it certainly wouldn't be possible in one day. So much for answering that question. Can you answer the Minister in writing? I have given oral answers to this question, so I do not see the need to give it in writing. Why? I told you I don't know these statistics. You asked me if I had that information. No, I don't. Well, I guess that's the answer to the question. And speaking of the second question... Mr. Senator, we're still discussing the same issue. Well, you might as well be blackmailed by your wife that she won't tell you about all the property covered by the marriage property community if you don't vote properly. These are questions that lead to absurdity, because the dependence of this on voting for one person or another, on one party or another, is inappropriate. I guess that's in terms of... Mrs. Marshal, I'll complete... ...a joke to treat, because that's the way... I'll fill in... ...interpreting the rules... Well, you know, blackmail can be done for a lot of reasons. That's it. Well, it's a crime, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u242	Complement. I didn't mean to vote for one party or another, but on specific issues, e.g. world viewers. We know that some laws passed by a majority of one vote. It doesn't take much for a child to blackmail a parent and make that one vote either in favor or against a dominant one.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u243	Okay, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal, ad vocem. Excuse me, the Marshals have been reprimanding us quite often. Every page, it's clear But what does it mean that the Minister says he doesn't see the need to answer in writing? If the senator asks for a written reply, it is your duty to give such an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u245	Mr. Senator, you're in my role now. You wanted to speak ad vocem, but I didn't know it was this case. I'd like to ask Senator Robert Dowhan if he would like a written reply. Yeah, yeah. If that's the case, I'm asking the Minister to answer in writing. Okay, but I think I gave the answer. You reacted a little too quickly, Senator... I'm sorry. ...because I was about to do it. Thank you. But now the senator is actually enrolled in the question, so please, I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u246	Thank you so much, and I'm sorry I overstepped. You're thinking marshal. I'm returning to the problem that you raised earlier, Senator Szymanski, the problem of the family. Well, in my opinion, we're creating a pathological system. What's that? Just now, in my previous questions, I have shown how easy it is to avoid remaining in this common life, what concerns those who remain in the common life. All you have to do is move out for a month and a dog with a lame leg, and no one can stick to it. I'm sorry, but if someone really wants to bypass this system, it's enough to get divorced, stay together, move out once a year, in December a month, come back and then you can not make any declarations. Have you even thought about how easy it is to get around?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u247	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Komarnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u248	Minister, I'd like to return to the question that Senator Szymański has asked with concern about the family. If our children, working hard, acquired a huge fortune if they are our grandchildren, Minister, and these children will say: "I don't wish, father, no statements, because your grandchildren will be threatened by various bandits' ointments... Because what we're doing is a beautiful field to show bandits where and what they can do. I mean, if it weren't for you. not virtual, but organized, then you could close our reports in the armored cash register and, when necessary, reach for them, not inform the whole society and expose one against the other. That's the truth, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u249	Thank you very much. Senator Zbigniew Silence. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u250	Minister, I have a question as to whether you have taken into account the requirements of the article during the drafting of this law. 8 The European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees respect for private life and provides for conditions when this guarantee may be restricted. If yes, what good is one of the few listed in Article? 8 Have you considered that respect for private life prevails? And what is the justification that all of this is sufficient to respect the principle set out in this article that it must comply with the principle of a democratic rule of law? Because there are 3 such criteria: Primo, the restriction must be in the law; secundo, may be due to one of these objectives; tertio, is necessary in a democratic state of law. That's the first line. Can I ask you more questions or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u251	Mr. Senator, you have to fit in one minute. You can in the next... Okay, then I'll ask the next one. Thank you very much. Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u252	Maybe I'll start with a question about disclosure of assets and exposure to some criminal conduct. Well, Mr. Senator, this situation can also happen at present... It's an extension. I was talking about the kids. Good. Now the senators can also have children and make a statement of property, a statement concerning the common property. As far as the people in common life are concerned, Senator, this is the legal category that exists in today's legislation, and it is applied to different types of situations. But not for this situation. Okay, but the legislator has proposed to apply this one as well. You know very well that a property statement is made on a specific day. As you have said, it can be applied equally well not only to this situation, but to others. And I don't think it's appropriate to talk here about how to circumvent the law. As regards the question of privacy, the legislator assumed that the right to privacy or the right to information autonomy of the individual referred to also by the Constitution are not absolute, they do not constitute rights which cannot be restricted. But it's important. It's also defined. In order to ensure that the provisions which constitute a certain restriction of those rights are adopted by law and are necessary and necessary, in particular because of the public policy of the State, which, according to the legislator, the drafter, is implementing this Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u253	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the questions I asked earlier, you didn't give me an answer. Maybe I'll rephrase it, in the simplest way possible. Except for the criminal code... I understand we're not treated like criminals here yet. In which law, apart from the penal code, the laws in force in Poland, the property status of one household or its members affects the legal situation of another household or its members? This question can no longer be asked more simply. Good. Mr. Senator... That's the first line. Second line. Minister, this is how the bill will be formulated. The introduction of rules which are, as if not life-threatening, incompatible with the facts causes them either to be hoarded and not to perform their proper function, or to be ridiculed. That's what I'm afraid of, Minister. That's exactly what I'm afraid of. You said, and rightly so, that people like us who have a certain social status must accept certain burdens, because they have certain, I would call it, privileges Let this be the word. Indeed, family members who live with this person and run a farm together have such privileges. But what privileges do those who run another farm even outside the country have, e.g. The grown-up kids who left? Explain that to me. About the first question...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u255	One moment, one moment, Minister. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u256	I promise, Minister, I won't ask again. But I have a question, very simple. What penalties do they threaten if no statement of property is made at all? What kind of punishment does the senator face? And what is the penalty if a statement is made that is not true? These are two different things. I can't fold it. What's the punishment for that? And what if I fold it and give it the wrong one? What's the punishment for that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u257	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Zbigniew Silence. Then the Minister will be able to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u258	Minister, has it been considered that, in order to achieve the objective of what it is, I understand, to prevent situations in which public persons wishing to make a declaration of property flee with their wealth by handing it over to their immediate family... Has not another measure, perhaps less drastic, which interferes with family life and privacy, been considered, namely the obligation for them to make a statement on the donations made? Then it's obvious that I'm gonna say this illegally, whether or not someone ran off with a fortune. However, it has such a plus that it does not interfere with the private life of third parties, and this law unfortunately does so.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u259	Good. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u260	To answer the question... As for the first question, Senator, here the answer will be in writing, it will be verified. When it comes to ridiculing the rules or, as you put it, handling them, it is an opinion that I find difficult to respond to. About Senator Dowhan's question... Excuse me, Minister, what about these privileges? Please answer the second question: what privileges does a person have in another household? Suppose this is my adult son who lives outside Poland. Mr. Senator, I wasn't talking about the privilege of such people, I was just talking about the possible privileges of those who perform the highest functions in the state. As far as penalties are concerned, in this respect, Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 9th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator indicates And this was not subject to amendment or amendment, that the fact that the fact that the truth was false or concealed in the statement of the estate gives rise to liability under Article. 233 §1 of the Criminal Code. And when it comes to non-submission? It's like a cover-up. It's a cover-up... No, these are two different things. Then there's the rule of law. Yeah, fine, yeah. Punishment in the form, as I recall, of failure to pay Members' fees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u261	Good. Thank you very much. And now Mr. Senator... Quiet. Senator Silence has already asked questions. Senator Comfort now. Well, I just didn't get the answers. Oh, excuse me, sir. Another senator's question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u262	Mr. Senator, well, that's the solution. It is difficult for me to refer to this now, but I understand that this is a proposal to consider future amendments to these provisions in the direction that the senator was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u263	Good. Thank you. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u264	Minister, I don't know why at all, but when you answered one of the questions earlier, you suddenly attacked the politicians of the Civic Platform about the watch. Just so we're square, one of your government buddies didn't notice the barn and the other one didn't see the house. Mr. Senator, question, please. So that you may also have these examples... if you want to give an objective account here. And now I'd like to say what the URM lawyers said about the Senate's statement. I quote: in view of all the above and the arguments put forward, it must be stated that the Act in question imposes on the persons required to make a statement... You, too, aren't you? Yes. Well, congratulations. ...sanctioned criminal obligation impossible to fulfil. Mr. Senator, speaking of...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u265	In a moment, Minister. Oh, I'm sorry. Are you done asking questions? Yes, sir. Good. Thank you. Mr. Senator Bonisławski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a quick question. Well, every adult working man makes an annual financial statement, a popular PIT. Do not the authorities responsible for control have control over this, or do we have to do the same in a statement? Well, it's easy to find out if my son, with whom I may not have any personal contacts, because there are different things in the family, as a friend said here, that he reports or doesn't. He can say no to me, but you can check it out. Is it therefore worth writing it in the form in which it is contained here? That's one thing. Secondly, one of the colleagues here has already talked about it. What about children who live abroad and pay taxes there? This is often the case. How? Can we enforce information from them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u267	And Mr. Senator Comfort again. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u268	The Minister laughed a little and ignored the example I gave by asking a question about the possible circumvention of these rules. It was about people in these relationships... Minister, and before that you said that once there the Platform wanted to embrace a separate property... Minister, exactly. And here I want to tell you why my example isn't so pointless. Well, it is very often practiced today, you know that from the experience of Prime Minister Morawiecki That you do a mike and sign up for a wife and a separate property. I'm sure you know this is the way it is. This was criticized even by those of the Law and Justice. Then why do you think that my example of making such a bow is illegal and that this is not a danger? And if you want this hole, because it's an obvious hole in this bill... How do you want to block it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u269	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u270	The answer to Senator Silence's questions. As for the examples I gave, I would like to say that these were not attacks. It was information... Sweep, Sweep. I'm sorry, sweaty. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. No, no problem. We're like two drops of water... I have written down these questions from the senators. There are a few... No problem, of course. Mr. Senator, it wasn't an attack. This was a list of examples, adding to the list of examples that the senator or you raised... This was a list of examples that justify the adoption of this type of legislation. As for the opinion of lawyers, this is the opinion of one lawyer who prepared this opinion at the Legal Office. It's hard for me to say... the lawyers who were at the committee meeting didn't necessarily share that opinion. I don't know what the opinion of other lawyers would be in this regard. Like I said, it was one of the lawyers' opinions. As far as the third question is concerned, I, when talking about the inclusion in this project of the property of the spouses in May, only said that it was going beyond the scope of the present law if it was proposed that the property statement should also contain information concerning the property of the spouse. That's not in the current regulations. Mr. Senator said it was a way to circumvent the rules currently in force. The applicant... In a way. In a way. The applicant also proposes regulation in this respect and extends it. If the senator thinks this is a way around... After all, you can also transfer these assets to other people from your immediate family. Of course, there must be a line here that Senator Radziwiłł was talking about. And the PIT issue. Mr. Senator, PIT doesn't mean the same thing I'm talking to the senator here. What a fortune. For the purposes of property claims, PIT must be submitted because one of the headings relates to the income earned in a given year, but, as I say, the statement relates to all the property held and not only to the income earned in a given tax year to which the tax return in the form of PIT relates. On the basis of their PIT and on the basis of PITs submitted by the nearest persons for whom a declaration of property will be made, the tax offices conduct proceedings and explain if there are any doubts. On the other hand, there are provisions in this respect for those who are abroad. I think the officials, the heads of the IRS and the IRS are able to take these cases. These issues are already being addressed today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u271	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Marshal, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your questions. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Senate is wider: Parliament once again hastily passed, I say in advance, a bad law. It adopts a law which, nothing to hide, is to cover up a matter, is to somehow help come out of a difficult situation in which the governing camp was involved by the carelessness or failure of Prime Minister Morawiecki and a matter related to the property of the Morawisky state. It's about specific plots. This is a bad practice, one in which the House, which is to be the Chamber of reflection and lawmaking of the best possible standards, bends the procedure or allows for the creation of a law of evil, imperfect, law that complicates reality rather than brightens it. This is another case like this. I will remind you that after the high awards were given to the ministers of the Sejm, and then the Senate cut salaries for all officials, all Members and senators. It was done to cover it up somehow. This is a terrible precedent or precedent, but we should consider it as a House of Reflection. The Minister has given many answers here. I would rather express my appreciation here for Senator Radziwiłł, who quite competently and faithfully reflected the course of yesterday's sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee. At this meeting, I asked the Minister why the government did not take the opportunity to present this proposal to us... Minister, these are not the laws that the legislator is proposing. These are the regulations you proposed as a government. There's nothing to blame on the legislator. It will be possible to sack in a moment, after we have actually passed this bill. I asked why the government didn't take advantage of the opportunity to sort out the matter related to property statements. We all know. We're aware of that because we're filing property statements. The statements are imprecise, they do not fit their dispositions with contemporary requirements. There are various wordings that raise interpretational doubts, and these doubts give law enforcement tools, including CBA, to initiate proceedings. These proceedings are largely due to some question of interpretation, not to conscious concealment or misrepresentation in statements. The Minister also referred to the GRECO report, the Group of States against Corruption set up by the Council of Europe. The Minister referred to the 2013 document, which is allegedly one of the reasons why this law is being amended. I have a document from 2017, sent from the Ministry of Justice, signed by Łukasz Piebiak, so I don't know how reliable he is, but I assume he is. It speaks of a lot of requirements that are being met by the Member States. Recommendations to Poland concerned a lot of issues, and property statements only at another point. It was said to increase the transparency of relations between parliamentarians and lobbyists and other third parties who could influence the legislative process in order to complement the principles of parliamentary ethics or, which is an extremely important aspect in the activities of parliamentarians, define conflicts of interest and somehow introduce this problem to our work. You have not taken the opportunity to solve all the problems that Greco has been signalling for many years, including the government proposal. Why? Because you were in a hurry and wanted to meet specific political needs, not solve the problem of property claims, lobbying or important issues concerning the activities of the Member, the Senator, including conflicts of interest. There were many words about the constitution and that one lawyer proposed such general and detailed comments, but after all another lawyer could say something else. Minister, this lawyer is a representative of the Senate Legislative Office, and this is the opinion of the office, not the lawyer. Of course, it is written by a particular lawyer, but there is a procedure that such an opinion is going through. This is the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, and it's extremely important to us, and it's devastating for this project. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't want to get into all this... Shh. ... ...in quoting this very good opinion. She's material. I can only say once again, referring to the Constitutional Tribunal, which in the field of art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution, which says: "Restrictions in the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights can only be laid down in the Act and only if they are necessary in a democratic state." That's what he talked about, among other things. Senator Comfort, but not only For his safety or public order, either for the protection of the environment, health and public morality, or for the freedom and rights of others. These restrictions must not affect the essence of freedom and rights... In this well-established case-law of the Court, there is the wording which is also an obligation for the legislator to adopt a regulation only if it is necessary for the protection of the public interest with which it is connected to it to shape the regulation in such a way as to achieve its intended objectives... This will not be the case here, because we have already pointed out that making a statement by an obliged senator or a Member is impossible in the event of refusal or lack of interest of a son, daughter or other family member who is mentioned in the bill. Therefore, this objective will not be achieved. This case-law also states that the relationship between the effects of the regulation introduced and the burdens or disadvantages resulting from it for citizens should be maintained, that effective measures should be chosen from among the possible means of impact to achieve the objectives pursued, and thus the least burdensome for operators. In the case of this today's opinion or the law at issue, the designer, the government, has not shown that such a proportionality test has been carried out. I don't think that's what he's going to reveal, at least we don't know anything about it. I am about to make 12 amendments, which aim to make this law even to a minimum civilise and give it a form that will mitigate the far-reaching consequences that are unforeseen until the end of this law. These amendments largely limit the scope of information given in the statement on the property situation of own children, the children of the spouse, children adapted to cases where children remain in the common household with the person required to make the declaration. There are also some other amendments that, I hope, the High House is concerned about correct legislation, about keeping standards and about creating a law that is understandable, transparent, transparent and to be implemented... Because I agree with the thesis put forward in this opinion that this law imposes on us, among others. on us, responsibilities we can't do. And this is clou, the essence of this whole palette of critical words about this law: we cannot execute this law. We always assume the good faith of state institutions, but this is a whip, a potential whip on all, not only on the opposition senators, but also on any insubordinate or thinking independently of a Member or a Senator, because he can give a tool to institutions with bad will. It is precisely because this matter is uncontrollable by the person making the statement that it can be used for political purposes. We know that this can happen because it has happened before. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! You didn't even try to change a few of the rules criticized by all those who fill out modern property statements, the ones in force at the moment. It's about changing things, for example. the securities that are entered are replaced by the term "financial instruments', because the recording of the securities is 20 years old. In fulfilling these claims, we do not know how to write our various types of liabilities, claims or goods, because we have a general password for securities, and they do not cover all possible examples. You didn't do it, even though it's such a simple procedure. Why? Because you were doing it on your knees, fast and due to a specific political need. Mrs. Marshal, I'll file... Time, Mr. Senator. I'm done. Now, please, because time's up. I'm almost done. I'm making amendments, 12 amendments. I hope the High House is willing to accept them, and at least to a minimum, it will try to save this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u273	Good. Thank you very much. And Senator Andrzej Bobko. Alexander. Alexander, I'm sorry. Late hour. Excuse me, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We've been participating in a show for a good few hours now, which I think will fit in. No, not with golden voices, unfortunately in the history of populism. This is an excellent example, a concreteization of what populism is, and in such a worst sense of the word, in the worst edition. Of course, democracy in which we live requires a certain degree of populism. Most people have to be persuaded to rule, so without a certain amount of populism it's hard to get around here. History shows it. But there are limits, and this law, these boundaries of populism in which we live, in my view, is quite radical. I'm just gonna say a few thoughts, 'cause there's not much time. The aim of this law is to improve the standard of public life, improve transparency or transparency of public life. That's the justification. I'd like to point out that I can't see And it doesn't just apply to this law anymore, but it doesn't apply to the situation in which we live. The real link between the transparency or transparency of public life and the obligation to disclose the property statements of Members, Senators or public persons. I just don't see that kind of relationship. I don't see how it serves the transparency and transparency of public life that kids can go on the Internet and play to analyze it by making fun of information about the wealth of public people in the state. This is, in my opinion, just worse. It's against a certain evident educational principle that at least I was raised. I think most of us mom has always taught us not to speak publicly about the wealth and the money that the family has, because that's just not what we're doing. We've forgotten that. We've crossed those boundaries, we're used to it, but that doesn't change the fact that we're living in worse populism. That's not the relationship. These statements should of course be made, they should be accessible to the services, they should be used to prevent corruption. Incidentally, it is more preventing corruption from eliminating opportunities for corruption, and thus less involvement of the state in its activities than increasing control, but unfortunately we I notice this with great concern. We're going in the opposite direction. More and more countries, more and more checks, and more and more weird rules that generate it. So this populism is already a law that we've been used to, and which we've been applying for many years, and it's very bad and it's very bad and it's very bad, and it's giving a lot of bad blood to society, because this kind of playing with information about someone else's property only generates bad blood. And this bill is way beyond what I'm going to say, the limits of common sense, the limits of another circle, you'd say, hell. I'm not going to repeat these arguments or bring up these bizarre situations that it generates in the family, it generates in human relationships. I'm surprised, and I admit it with great regret. I have been a member of this government for more than 2.5 years or about 2.5 years, I consider it an honor, but I am surprised to note that here in a certain fever of the election campaign, the government has decided to present such a bill, which please forgive me, Minister, but also pass on this information from a private senator who created people in some political amok, simply in political amok, who see the world through the prism of electoral posts, through the prism of the electoral campaign, and do not look at life completely, the real consequences of their actions. It brings me to my amazement and shows that it is not difficult to get away from reality. And then what happens? Then the flood. We're gonna run out of campaign, we're gonna have an election, and we're gonna do it, and then maybe we're gonna rewrite it, maybe we're gonna change it. Well, that's not how it's supposed to work, that's not how the legislator should do it. If this law passes through the Polish Parliament You're still the president. We'll be ashamed of that. I have no doubt about that. We have already adopted a few laws here over the last four years, which do not bring us glory, but this, in effect, exceeds another circle in which the level of shame due to its adoption will be simply enormous. I will no longer count the laws that are the emanation of populism, even though the Flight Act just discussed is an example of this, but let's leave it at that. I call at the end of this term for us to come to our senses, so that we may have this populism, which I said. It is a certain spice in public life, a spice that is necessary in democracy, simply did not become poisoned together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u275	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! These two statements from the Senators of Law and Justice and the Civic Platform... In fact, it's quite difficult to say more after them. I'll try very briefly. I have repeatedly here on various occasions called for us to be able to communicate in the name of some basic values and reason in matters that are obvious, evident at first glance. I called on you, if something is evidently stupid, as it was with the 7 times amended Supreme Court Act, not to stand on this speaker and not to speak this foolishness, because then comes the minister who proposed the first version, of which also our Legislative Office, and we said that this stupidity was the useful senators who voted for it. And it offers exactly what was proposed by the Legislative Office and us. None of those defenders of the revealed truths, of the senators who presented it, even turned red when a month later the bill, which they defended as Rejtan, was thrown into the basket. Here we are dealing with the greatest aberration that could have come to our House. I don't know why... I'll quote something, it's a short quote from our opinion. I don't know why you think lawyers who have a lot of experience with these statements... Well, you can say you're afraid of something. No, I'm quoting lawyers who have no interest in saying that this is a law incompatible with any logic of criminal laws. The law in question imposes an obligation on persons obliged to make a declaration, sanctioned criminally, an obligation impossible to fulfil. Well, we've heard that opinion, we've talked about it. There is no other logical conclusion, he is impossible to meet. Maybe 1 out of 10 families is, but the others aren't, so you can't pass that kind of law. It is not possible to request complete, complete information about the property status of a particular circle of persons from another person who is not the owner of such information. It's like you want to write down that if I'm married and my wife commits any crime, I have a responsibility to report it. Can I not know that she stole something from the store? This is nonsense. I'm reversing this situation, but it's exactly the same situation. I continue to quote in favour of the opinion: "This formulation raises reasonable doubt as to its compatibility with the Article. 2 the Constitution and the principle of a democratic rule of law, which states that the legislator should be a rule building trust in the State. We are dealing with solutions that are a trap for us. Well, I've told you that before. The Minister, the Senator rapporteur, says that we are already dealing with this situation. First of all, I don't think that's exactly what has been proven here many times. This is not the same situation and Senator Terminski spoke very precisely about it. But, Senator, Minister, even if we are already dealing with a situation in which there is uncertainty, what should a logically thinking legislator do? Eliminate uncertainty. I don't know how you filled out your first statement of property, but I went to the people who have been officials for the past 20 to 30 years and who have been filling out every four years... I'm sorry, more often, because we make statements twice during our term of office. We actually fold every year, and the fifth time when it's the end of four years. Therefore, they should know everything about it. Well, for 10 of my questions and doubts they couldn't answer me on 3. So what does the legislator propose to us? And you think everything's okay. Instead of erasing these problems that each of us knows through and through, because this is the most fatal, illogical statement of property, and outdated... No, you guys, the doubts that exist... You defend the argument that it should be extended three more times, and without any stuttering such foolishness... You guys are trying to give it any kind of wisdom and any kind of weight. I think there is a limit to this absurdity, there is a limit to what we can take on our conscience by voting or speaking for certain things. And I think that this bill, like a few others before, is completely beyond that limit, where we are allowed to sign it. This is dangerous for our children, for our grandchildren, it is dangerous for us, and it is contrary to any rules in Europe, because it is not by chance when we asked if there is a similar solution anywhere in Europe, no one... I mean, the Minister must have been whirling, and no one... Why? Because there's no such nonsense... In many countries it's the other way around, there's no... Of course, I am not saying that it is good where there are no statements of property at all, but it is simply an event on a European scale. And no one's gonna give us a medal because we're first in this competition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u277	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I want to congratulate my previous speakers, especially Senator Bobka. Mr. Senator, first of all, I congratulate you for having a spine and telling the whole truth, and especially since you are from the governing camp and you have the courage to say, not for the first time, for which we all know, you have been punished. Many times you have had the courage to say what you think, and this is very important how you act as a senator or a Member or a Minister. I also thank the Minister. Yesterday, you were going through a fight with us at the committee meeting, and today you also have a difficult task, as Senator Pociej also said. You got a job to do, you gotta do it like a soldier. With better, worse results, you defend yours, we defend ours. But, as in life, everyone says, family is a sacred thing. And I think we need to get out of this, and we need to end it, too, that some things have to have boundaries somewhere. The borders were defined by Senator Radziwiłł, whom I congratulate on defending this bill. Well, there must be boundaries somewhere, but these boundaries don't just end with children, because we mentioned that we also have parents - unfortunately I don't have any more - we have brothers, we have, I don't know, friends... But is that what this is all about tonight, discussing how to get away from the estate? I don't think that's the point, that we're here to peddle, what to hide, what not to hide. After all, if you go public, you know that sooner or later, if someone's got something behind your ears, they'll come out. Can't be fooled. 'Cause tonight, ladies and gentlemen... And I believe in our country, that it has such instruments. We also discussed this during the break, Minister. It's the kind of instruments that can test any one of us. Today it's hard to escape with property that is still, because there are eternal books, notarial acts. It's hard to make any moves today so it doesn't leave a mark. The same applies when it comes to monetary values. We've got transfers, haven't we? I think from the amount of 20,000 there are notifications to the tax office. We have full monitoring of transfers, including foreign ones that can't be done... Well, there's probably some way in the suitcase you can take the money to Greece. As there was a crisis, it was paid 50 euros each, or Cyprus, where, if there was a crisis, all businessmen from Russia were wound up or closed, but that is not what this is all about. Very wisely said here Senator Silence about respect for private life. I will refer to the constitution we have quoted here. We have an art in it. 47, which says: everyone has the right to legal protection of private, family life, honor and good name and to decide on his or her personal life. Art. 47 talks about it. Let's call it an art. 51, who says that no one can be obliged to disclose any information... etc. This article has a few points. He was quoted. So we have a conflict with the constitution here. On the other hand, we want to say here that the bill can change that. And if we write that the brother-in-law has something to write, he has to write it, although he doesn't have to, because for example. He'll say there's no obligation and goodbye. In turn, today in court As far as I know, and I'm not a lawyer, Mr. Senator Silence will fix me. The closest family can testify on behalf of e.g. My father, my mother, my brother, my sister, that she can lie, she can speak untruthful, and she's not punished for it. He can even refuse to testify, can't he? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He can say no. So he doesn't have to tell the truth. He can say no and say he won't testify. And here's the duty, you have to force it. If we don't force it, we're gonna have legal sanctions. I asked the Minister: what about And it's incomprehensible to me at all. When are we not going to make a statement at all? We have a duty, but we won't make a statement. Well, we can only be sanctioned by the rules of procedure. A reminder, a reprimand, a diet may be taken or the allowance will be taken if someone is downloading it. That's where the punishment ends. So you can not file anything at all, do not play with typing all this, checking the family, etc., and there will be only regulatory sanctions. And if we make a statement in good faith and there's a mistake somewhere, we can go to court. We don't have to, but we can go to court. And the court can pronounce penalties, as it was said here, far more severe than if we did not make that statement at all. So the equivalent of these penalties... Well, it's kind of disproportionate to what we're debating here. I'm even having second thoughts... I'm a bachelor. Now that I meet a girl, I think I'm gonna have to tell her at the first meeting that if she wants to come to my house and for example. Put some of your stuff in the fridge, and if we spend one night under the same roof, that girl's gonna have to write down everything she's got. I don't know if there's gonna be anyone willing to go for it. That could be a problem. It's too bad if someone's married, but if we have bachelors among Members and Senators, they might have a problem, today or in the future, that I'm joking like this. What Senator Bobko said, I don't deny making statements at all, and I don't think you're denying it either. But making it public? In many countries it is not done at all, and publicizing it only arouses emotions, probably in many cases envy, controversy, and some newspapers that will not show how long a man has worked, what he has achieved in his life, how long it took him to do so, but will show who has the watch, what kind of suit he has, what kind of car he drives. They're not gonna show the cycle of events that have happened over the years to earn it, they're just gonna be there... I know this from my example that it's always this and this, a car like this, not always true, because it's a different picture and a different brand. But they tend to search for such trivial things. And as I said, these statements today are controlled by an army of officials who, instead of taking care of the VAT hole, the controls or the fiscal and fiscal system, verify all declarations of property sheet by sheet, check the perpetual books, apply to the banks for the status of the account, check the flows, check the meters. It really takes a lot of time. And I am saying this, Minister, because I have friends who work in the tax administration and say it's mega-trauma. And for that, there's nothing. At least I didn't hear it. For the past 10, 15, 20 years, did the IRS question someone's claim of property so much that it led to a conviction that led to some kind of... There may have been individual cases, but in all of Poland there were thousands of statements of property made by councillors, by presidents, mayors, wojites, district councillors, city officials, high-ranking officials... This is an army of officials that works. And I asked, does it take a week, a month, two months, maybe five months? How long does it take? Is this official really going to do his job, to which he was called, or is he going to do continuous control? On the one hand, it's controlled by the IRS, then CBA, right? And in the end, it turns out that really... Mr. Senator, time. ...nothing because someone made a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u279	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was wondering if I could ask for a vote, but I came to the conclusion that there was a need to defend this bill. I have the impression, especially after the speech of my previous speaker, that we live here in a closed bubble, without seeing the essence of the problem of the political class. Well, first of all, the political class isn't crystal clear. We're not like that. And there are those among us who simply commit very serious violations of the law and must be acknowledged. But what else? We are constantly watching and in political life, as well as in private life, accompanied by a lot of different kinds of discourses and media riots, which, often without any real basis, are hitting not only on us, on the political class, but above all on the state. And I think that this should be looked at from the perspective of the interests of the state. Because it is also the interest of the state to trust in the broad sense of power. It seems that among others. this is served by various steps, which in recent times by some people, e.g. Members of Parliament are perceived very critically, such as lowering salaries, such as ideas to reduce immunity, and finally broadening the transparency of property. I must say that by listening to today's questions, as well as the speeches that were before me, in which the form of senators was very often used, I feel as if there were at least some people in this room, not all of them, behaved like members of the senators' union. It's something very bad. The involvement in this law is far beyond its state-of-the-art It's something very bad, because it's the kind of signal that comes from this room not to touch us here. Right? Similar situations have occurred in other areas, such as the salaries of parliamentarians and the issue of immunity. In my opinion, we should all, regardless of party membership, be extremely careful in this regard. We should humbly bow our heads, because when we enter politics, taking responsibility for the state, we do not do so to make big money, we do not do so to escape criminal liability, and we bear certain costs, including family, domestic, social costs, as is the case with respect to, among other things, criminal liability. The disclosure of our assets, which of course has its consequences, carries risks to us and our loved ones. I think most of us at the moment she entered politics... I can definitely say that about myself. In fact, the only consultation I had was to consult my wife to see if I could make up my mind. 'Cause we knew right away it was gonna be a threat. getting rid of privacy for each of these reasons, as well as what to hide, the deterioration of earnings, the property situation. This has been my concern since the first day I entered politics, because it turned out that I had to give up my business, I had to give up various jobs, such as this, etc. And it turns out I make a lot less money than before. But it was a conscious decision. We're just doing it pro publico bono, not for your own business. This private interest that Senator Cichoń was talking about, these civil rights are generally limited in our case. And unfortunately, it also affects our loved ones, there is no other way. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been words here that are not meant to be said here. I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal left, but it's from his mouth that these words came to the Minister, and I quote: please don't be surprised that we're interested, because we're going to be concerned. Is that an argument in this case? Very bad, very bad... We should look at this from the perspective of the public interest. In my opinion, it is in the public interest that transparency is widely understood. The fact that the real stuff and the quotes... One aspect of this is what happens in politicians' families. It's just a fact. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's not close our eyes on this. Something needs to be done about it, and it seems to me that this openness from politicians is a step in the right direction in order to restore the seriousness of the state. I don't think it's a party thing, that it's... Since these real issues and situations in quotes concern politicians of different options, we should all take this as a step towards restoring the seriousness of the state. I appeal for that attitude to this case. And the last sentence or declaration on my part. Knowing the difficulties mentioned, in obtaining this information, I declare that I will do everything I can to make sure that I succeed. To get true and reliable information about our property situation, my wife and I, so that she doesn't hide anything from me, but also my children. I'll do it the best I can. And I would appeal whether I would suggest that everyone should consider whether such a step would not be a good step for each of us, the senators, Members of Parliament, as well as for all those who have the highest functions in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u281	Thank you, Senator. Senator Władysław Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. My testimony. and this is quite complicated matter. serves a legal office that has 30 years of experience. This legal office consists of lawyers and economists. I chose to do this because I was always afraid of any mistake, because I know how a newspaper or a small mistake in a property statement can, so to speak, kill a politician. And before I came to this Senate meeting, I sat down with the people of this legal office and showed them this bill. I respect you, Minister, you are a wise man, in four years I have expressed this respect several times, but in this case your appeals are unable to change what they have written. Well, let's just leave my legal office here. Our legislators. All you have to do is read into what they wrote, into the fact that it's just a boob, a legal boob for political use. Professor Aleksander Bobko provoked me to this speech because what he said cannot be isolated. This is the voice of conscience addressed to senators thinking, to senators who should not be ridiculed. Because just like Prime Minister Szydło yelled, 'We deserve it!', the warden said, 'Are you rebelling, parliamentarians, we're gonna get you!' And this is another ridiculous bill, a law that brings joy to lawyers. I am grateful to Senator Szymanski, who raised the family theme here. If you hadn't been pissing on our citizens, it would have been enough, as I mentioned in my question to you, Minister. So that our reports can be deposited in places where you can see them from morning to night. Why are you showing this to bandits? And why should my hard-working children be exposed to their wealth? Just because someone misdiscovered their assets? That's the law? Where in this House is morality, for God's sake? A few shames in this House were, the world laughed at them. I also remember the Senator from PiS screaming, "What are you doing?"! So now I'm appealing: what are you doing? You want us to make fun of ourselves? If we don't want to listen to ourselves, I beg you, at least listen to your lawyers. After all, Counselor Silence also asked questions that you did not have good answers to, Minister. So I'm begging you, when you get back to the government meeting, tell me you're not comfortable here. And I feel sorry for you. This is where the lawyers wrote clearly: this is bullshit. And we believe these legislators, because they have witnessed their wisdom for four years. Many of the amendments that were then made were previously signaled by them, but we were deaf. I am addressing all senators today: let us not be deaf, please, it strikes a widely understood family and there will be conflicts. We have no moral right to adopt something that will hit our children and our grandchildren. I'd like to end this appeal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u283	Thank you very much. Senator Zbigniew Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two issues need to be considered for each law First of all, the objective to be achieved, second of all, the means to do so. In addition, thirdly, consideration should be given to whether these measures are fair and proportionate to the objective pursued. These are the standards that have been developed in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Since we joined the Council of Europe, i.e. since 1991, they have been binding on us. They are used by civilized nations. One of human rights is the right to privacy, which is expressed in Article. 8 the European Convention on Human Rights and almost repeated in Article. 47 Polish Constitution of 1997, with the convention much older than the Constitution I'll remind you that she's from 1950, which means she's 27 years older. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the right to privacy? This seems to have escaped our attention in this discussion and, above all, in the process of proceding the bill. Namely the right to privacy is the right to live according to the request of the individual and without publicity. This is how the most prominent lawyers who write human rights textbooks define the interpretation of the article. 8 the European Convention on Human Rights. This is also the caselaw of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Ladies and gentlemen, a question. Do you really, demanding that certain persons performing the highest public functions make declarations not only as to their own property and their spouse's... As regards the common assets and not the separate assets This has to be noted. That's what happened so far. Is it true that if these people commit themselves to making statements as well as what is the property status of those closest to them, we can say that we are not dealing with interference in private life, and that is too far-reaching interference? We have to ask ourselves: what is the purpose of this regulation? The purpose of this regulation is to prevent, trivially speaking, the escape from wealth by transferring this property to the nearest ones. Hence my question to the Minister. Wouldn't that be achieved at much lower costs, with less violation of the right to privacy of these people, i.e. the immediate family of the most important persons in the country, if a regulation had been established which would have required a declaration to be made, in which information on the transfers of certain property to those persons, whether under a donation or under another legal title, should be provided? Well, of course, it would be much simpler, and it would be much more respectful of the right to privacy, especially those third parties. Ladies and gentlemen, in reference to Minister Radziwiłł's statement, I would like to say that we are not here on behalf of, as you said, corporations of parliamentarians. We are here on behalf of third parties. Yes, they are people close to family relationships, people close to these parliamentarians, but they are third parties who do not necessarily want to be involved in politics and who have the right to live without publicity as opposed to those members of their family who have become involved in this policy. And it needs to be clearly distinguished and realized that there is a very serious distinction between these third parties and those who want to paralyze and paralyze themselves. That is why I have serious reservations about the fulfilment of all the standards that result from the article. 8 the European Convention on Human Rights. I'd like to quote a few judgments that show that Article. 8 protects e.g. Regulations between relatives This is the Merger and Cross case against France. There are a number of other judgments in which the Court stresses that the State not only has an obligation to refrain from interference, but also has an obligation of positive action which would make interference even by third parties, not necessarily by the State, unacceptable and in some cases even punishable. There are a number of judgments on the need to initiate criminal proceedings, for example. It is a matter of cruel acts such as rape or deprivation of life, and it is an obligation for the state to conduct effective, rapid and efficient criminal proceedings in order to apprehend the perpetrators and convict them. Therefore, it is all the more possible for the State to be the entity which restricts this sphere of privacy without a legitimate reason. I believe that there is no proportionality here between the objective to be achieved, i.e. preventing these transfers of assets to the people closest to them, so as to hide their assets in their own declaration and the measures applied. There is simply a huge imbalance, the measure is disproportionate. It's just shooting a cannon at a sparrow. And that's how you could put it in a picture. In the meantime, other measures may be taken, such as the one I mentioned, i.e. an obligation to declare what donations or other disposals have been made to those closest to them. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is as simple as it is written, you have to say it openly to yourself. 'Cause I'm asking you, what's the reason for that? certain categories of people closest to them are excluded, for which it is appropriate, in the light of the idea of the projectors, to provide information about their assets, i.e. parents, as has already been said. Ladies and gentlemen, there is actually nothing simpler and nothing more simple to say, interesting for such, let us give to it a policy, how to transfer the property to the parents, because then it is guaranteed that if this property does not escape, because whether it is on the basis of inheritance, or otherwise, it will happen to this property of the politician one day. If you hand it over to the baby... Well, it's a lot of things, ladies and gentlemen. I have led too many trials for the withdrawal of donations because of gross ungrateful ungratefulness, so as not to realize how often this is a risk and how often it is perturbation. In relations with parents, these relationships are much more honest. I am therefore sorry that I must say here, unfortunately, that this law, in my view, does not deserve to be accepted and the Senate, if it is to play a serious role as a House of Reflection, should not, I believe, adopt this law. If he had accepted it, it would have been a sad statement that he wasn't up to his task. I appeal primarily for caution, and in addition, although perhaps most, for the courage to make decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u285	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I rarely speak for the second time, but my term of office ends, and I may no longer be able to perform this honorable role as Senator, although I am running for office and I hope to be elected. Minister Radziwiłł, I like you very much, we talk sometimes, but I see you are alone in this room today. Of course, you're defending this bill, but you're actually alone on the battlefield because everyone has reservations. Of course, we go out with good intentions. It's not like everyone here suddenly made donations. Well, I'd like to have something to make it out of, I'd love to do it, and I'd love to show you, no problem. As I said, you were lonely, but... Counselor Silence, so to speak, took some of my field because I wanted to quote it, too. The easiest way for anyone to do it today A new function... We're kind of weird, 'cause at the end of our term... I asked why it was now, five to twelve. I got an answer that every time is right, that one day it's the right thing to do. But what we're really discussing is those who are just going to be chosen, and we have to make a decision for those who maybe have a different opinion. Right? It would be good for those who are chosen to discuss the future and not us on their behalf. And that was the intention of my questions. It can actually introduce a solution, so that anyone who has such a function will enter into statements, which donations he made during the year or the previous year, or in 10 years back, and for whom, on the basis of: please specify... So that it doesn't involve the lives of our children, our siblings or anyone who's not political. That would be the easiest thing to do. Why should we suffer today for not being so lucky in our lives that the parish priest of my parish didn't sell me the plot, I didn't sell it back, I didn't buy it back, and this parish priest was suddenly a general... Well, I don't have that kind of opportunity. No one ever gave me a villa, a homeless man no Mercedes. Maybe I was born badly, maybe not in this place, but unfortunately I didn't. I share the opinions of the speakers on the left and on the right, who have many reservations in good faith, not in bad faith. The Minister knows, we've talked about this too, and the High House also knows that even if we want to do anything, there's no way there's no way that there's a trace of it. Well, in the age of electronics, payment cards, electronic transfers, etc. There'll be a trail after each operation. Sooner or later, someone will ask: some funds have been transferred, some assets, some real estate, and you couldn't afford it, so where did it come from? There's the procedure. After all, such proceedings are taking place, after all, the authorities get information that some money has suddenly appeared out there, and it needs to be explained. I mean, it's normal. It's not weird. Why write it down today... Someone said I think you're Minister Radziwiłł. The law is very extensive. She actually has 6 points and these 6 points are expanded, that's a change of law and each point has points. I marked it here... That's the bill, that's the six points that would actually fit on two pages, and the rest are attachments. These attachments are so much, please. The future parliamentarians will have to fill in... Mr. Radziwill has... I'm not gonna tell you how many kids because I don't want to... Eight. Well, no secret. She's got eight kids. I guess you have to multiply that times eight. So it's probably gonna make more forms out of it... Time, Mr. Senator. The bill itself is placed on 2 pages, and with its annexes it is a nice volume. So I wish you good luck not to make a mistake and that all this is true. I don't think we should take this bill. I myself, despite my sincere desire, will vote against.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u287	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Bobko, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A brief debate with the other colleagues from the parliamentary club. First up, sir. I respect both colleagues very much, especially polemics. The patron saint of Silence. Well, in my opinion, this idea, for now purely theoretically, I don't think it's going to be realized yet. It's about transparency, e.g. declarations of donations, etc. He's not so innocent at all. Well, here we open another can of Pandora: transparency of expenses. Well, why do we only have disclosure about inheritances? How about the public disclosure of all expenses? If the income is public, let it also be public expenditure. Well, it's very dangerous. I think this is an even more dangerous direction than the disclosure of these property claims. I find it hard to imagine that politicians are obliged to disclose all expenses. That's totally... That's the first step this way. I think so. So I guess this idea isn't so innocent. I was actually provoked here by Senator Radziwiel. Senator, I share your view on this, that there is a certain, sometimes unwritten, as if misunderstood solidarity, such corporate, between politicians, regardless of political options. And you could probably give a lot of examples when, in a formal or informal way, politicians are acting for their own interests, regardless of political options. And that's reprehensible. This isn't right. I also share the view that politics should go for noble reasons and act pro publico bono. And many of us, going into politics, financially lost rather than profited from it. That's the truth. But I find it difficult to agree that this law works in the public interest, especially as it builds the authority and seriousness of the state. Because what has been said here I don't want to repeat these arguments anymore. It shows that it is exactly the opposite. Same as that. the law on the reduction of income or salary of parliamentarians absolutely, in my opinion, did not build and build The authority of the Sejm, only this authority reduced. And so it is with this bill. Besides, under what circumstances does it arise? Is it a result of someone gathering and wondering what to do to make the state more serious, or is it simply a law that has been prepared in a certain political context, such a populist one that we have already discussed here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u289	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Sławomir Rybicki has submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Minister? No, not anymore. Thank you. As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. Thank you very much. We proceed with the joint examination of item 6 and item 7 of the agenda: the Public Procurement Law and the Law The texts of the laws are contained in prints No 1308 and No 1309 and the Commission's reports In the letters No 1308 A and No 1309 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Tadeusz Kopcia, to present a report to the Committee on Public Procurement Law, and then on the Law on Public Procurement Law. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u290	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the reports of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the Law Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, the new public procurement law is a response to the voices of the whole public procurement market. This market has been waiting for many years for a new law that will respond to the needs of today's economic situation and the problems of spending public money. The new public procurement law creates a completely new framework for more efficient public spending, focused on successful performance of the contract between an entrepreneur and a public party, and not, so far, on the formal side of the procedure. Public procurement is a key form of public sector participation in the economy. Within them goods, services, construction works are ordered in Poland by almost 34 thousand entities. The value of contracts awarded in the procedures provided for in public procurement law was PLN 163 billion in 2017, i.e. 8,2% GDP, and in 2018 202 billion, representing 9,55% GDP. Public procurement affects the economy as a whole. In many sectors for every fourth trader, public procurement accounts for more than half of the revenue, and for every tenth of it 75% revenue. Accordingly, properly managed public procurement can make a significant contribution to the growth of companies, and poorly conducted proceedings, the lack of cooperation on the contracting line or restrictive contracts can even lead to the fall of companies, which we have often experienced in the last few years. The efficiency objective is pursued in the Act by focusing on the neglected stages of the procurement procedure under the current Act, planning, preparation and subsequent implementation and evaluation of the performance of the contract. Today, public entities focus primarily on the selection of contractors. Sometimes they don't pay enough attention to other elements of the process. It's just as important and even more important. It is worth mentioning how extensive work and consultation preceded the draft of the new public procurement law. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, together with the Public Procurement Office, began work on this project more than 3 years ago. A number of meetings and consultations were held, including debates. representatives of the public procurement market, the world of science and non-governmental organisations. During the consultation there were also many conferences in many Polish cities. On the basis of the results of these meetings and analyses, the concept of a new public procurement law has been developed. As part of the consultation, the concept was passed on to about 70 institutions and organisations of entrepreneurs, businesses, organisations representing local governments and industry organisations. New solutions are also the result of joint work and agreement between local government units, contractors and applicants, among others. within the Joint Government and Local Government Commission or the Social Dialogue Council. Among the changes introduced by the new public procurement law, it is worth mentioning at least a few of the very important solutions contained there, addressing problems mainly related to low competitiveness in this market or too little participation, which is very important, in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. So this law introduces... The introduction of the state's purchasing policy is very important, crucial in my view. The state purchasing policy will be a strategy document setting out state actions in the area of public procurement, focusing on the purchase of innovative, sustainable products and services provided to public bodies. Purchasing policy is intended to be a coherent and strategic plan for public spending through a public procurement system that will achieve economic, social and environmental effects that are important from a state perspective. The principle of efficiency in the award of public contracts is introduced. The impulse to change thinking about the public procurement system will be the introduction of the principle of efficiency in the award of contracts. This principle is intended to indicate to the contracting authorities the course of action of obtaining solutions with the best possible ratio of inputs to the benefits obtained. The obligation to carry out an analysis prior to the initiation of a public procurement procedure shall be introduced. This proposal requires an analysis to be carried out in the case of high value contracts. It will focus on wide market understanding, understanding possible ways of implementing the project, both on the procedural and on the economic and technical side. This will ensure increased attention of the contracting authorities when planning public expenditure on these largest amounts. A simplified procedure for contracts with a value below the European Union thresholds is to be distinguished. The introduction of a simplified procedure for contracts with a value lower than the Union thresholds will be a very important change. This is the volume of orders that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs most often apply for. The regulation will make it possible to flexibly shape the conditions for participation in proceedings. In addition, this will make it much easier to participate in the procurement procedure and at the same time to participate in the procurement procedure. Another change is the simplification of the use of the modes appropriate for the award of innovative contracts. Negotiations pave the way for the contracting authorities to gain knowledge of the best innovative solutions that contractors can offer them. In order to facilitate their implementation, the negotiating arrangements shall be deformed in this Act. This will make them more accessible to the contracting authorities. Proposals in the project that respond directly to the problem of low competitiveness include: simplification of the qualifications of economic operators, including limitation of exclusion conditions, the obligation to apply advances or partial payments in longer contracts, the mandatory valorisation of contracts concluded for more than 12 months or the catalogue of abusive clauses. In addition, a conciliation mechanism was envisaged, i.e. a settlement of disputes between the contractor and the contracting authority at the stage of the performance of the contract. The parties will now be able to ask the arbitration court at the General Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland for a quick settlement of the dispute before it reaches the court's path. The conclusion is cheaper and faster than the court, it is to last several months and facilitate the continuation of the contract. Important changes also concern a system of legal protection measures, which is important for entrepreneurs. This is primarily a reduction in the complaint fee for the ruling of the National Board of Appeal, an extension of the time limit for bringing an action against the decision of the National Board of Appeal. The procurement control system introduces common general rules on the control of public procurement, the carrying out of checks on the basis of an analysis of the risk of an infringement or the obligation to publish guidelines on the control of control authorities. The Act strengthens the role of the President of the Public Procurement Office in preparing and promoting good practices and examples of documents that will support the contracting authority. The desired effect of the new law. Public procurement law will be primarily: ensuring constant economic growth of Poland; ensuring the possibility of shaping state policy through public procurement; increasing the number of negotiated procedures; increasing the number of tenders submitted in public procurement proceedings; increasing the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in proceedings; harmonising the case law of national review chambers and general courts concerning public procurement and, above all, increasing the effectiveness of public procurement controls. Ms Marshal, High Izbo, the findings of yesterday's Senate committee meeting show that the substantive work was also carried out at this stage of the legislative process. Over the past two weeks, the designer has held working meetings with the Senate Legislative Office. During these meetings, key regulations of the law were discussed first and then comments drawn up by senate legislators. Some of the comments or questions from the Legislative Bureau were successfully explained at these meetings and at the committee meeting yesterday. Thanks to this joint substantive work in the Act, there are no errors preventing its adoption and entry into force, as stated by the representatives of the Legislative Office and present government representatives. The projector has undertaken to take into account the legitimate comments of legislators, such as the correlation of the law with the later legal acts, as well as very long - which I stress - a five-month vacathio legis of this law. For this reason, High Izbo, the committees have adopted the Public Procurement Law and the Law - Provisions introducing the Public Procurement Law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u291	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The draft laws were submitted by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marek Niebżak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, is with us today. We also have Mr Hubert Nowak, President of the Public Procurement Office. Would the Minister like to speak? Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to a government representative related to the items on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Senator Tadeusz Kopeć has signed up for the discussion. There you go. Senator Komarnicki wants to sign up? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u292	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would also like to add a few sentences to this report, which I had the honour of presenting on behalf of the committee of the High House. In my opinion, they are very important. High Izbo, this is, as I said, a very important bill. This is certainly one of those laws that will influence the way and quality of doing business in Poland and our economy during this term of office. The current law was established in 2004, i.e. before Poland entered the European Union and before the huge transfer of public funds. The potential of the existing law has been exhausted, and it has ceased to be attractive enough for the private sector to benefit from existing law to the extent that it uses its potential. One of the main identified problems of the current law is the disproportionate share of small and medium-sized companies in the public procurement market. Therefore, for national proceedings below the Union thresholds, the law under consideration introduces a new, easier procedure which does not require the application of procedures based on Union directives. Operators will be able to award contracts using a flexible, simplified procedure, which in particular creates the possibility to negotiate offers to a wider or narrower extent. By introducing solutions beneficial to contractors, this Subcontractor Act is not forgotten, which is very, very important. The Act is intended to guarantee them the exercise of all rights exercised by contractors. Contractors were obliged to care for the interests of subcontractors in an appropriate manner, therefore the Act contains, among others. provisions which ensure that the provisions of contracts concluded with subcontractors are not less favourable than those of contracts concluded with economic operators in terms of contractual penalties, payments or valorisation. Dear High Izbo, opening up to small and medium-sized enterprises will serve to change the competition procedure. The selection procedure shall be simplified. The new competition will allow, among others. for the conclusion of a contract for the performance of a service with which competition work was involved, not only for the design and execution of the project. While we are talking about small and medium-sized companies, it is also important to stress the issue of provisions that aim to improve the financial liquidity of these companies. Therefore, the reduction in the requirements relating to the security and advances, as well as the obligation to pay advances and prepayments in cases where the contract period exceeds 12 months. Today, liquidity problems very often make small companies unable to participate in tenders, because they simply cannot afford a security deposit or security. These requirements that apply today are far too excessive. Therefore, in smaller national procedures, in a simplified procedure, the maximum value of the security which the contracting authority may request is reduced by half, i.e. to 1,5%. In addition, the maximum security that the contracting authority may require shall be 10%. the total price quoted in the tender. In addition, the Act proposes solutions to the issue of contract valorisation This is a matter that is of course very important. and that the price should not be the main condition for consent to the performance of the contract. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister here very warmly and to hand over the Minister's thanks for another very good bill. After the constitution for business and this whole package for entrepreneurs, and also after the recent act we have been working on, so expected by entrepreneurs, the act on payment congestion, this law on public procurement is a really big step in the right direction for Polish entrepreneurs, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u293	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators can report... It's already a discussion... Oh, there's already a discussion, right? I'm so sorry. I would like the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u294	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Dear Izbo! This is a historic moment. Maybe it's weird that the opposition senator says that. But this is a historic moment, because I've seen it in a dignified age as an entrepreneur, co-owner and creator of a medium-sized company. For 18 years, I've been running a construction company, and I can tell you that I've been on my knees for 18 years before the Stupid Act. I was on my knees before the general contractor, who often invited me to subscribe, and already a priori, before he invited me, I knew I would lose. I was on my knees in front of an investor who was using public procurement gaps in a thorough manner. I saw Polish companies bleeding on their knees in front of foreign companies, which did not come with capital, nor with their own know-how, but with lawyers who knew this law well. They came with them so that we, working hard, and our engineers did a huge job. On our knees we asked for payment, but we received it depending on the whim of lawyers and those companies that only gave their logos. Poland had 1 million builders in 1990. Rzeczpospolita Polska had the best techniques releasing excellent graduates. Not to mention the architects. But this bullshit was throwing us all to our knees. I was a co-founder of the National Building Chamber, but not because I wanted to show up, just because I knew it was killing us. And I begged in all the forums. I was also vice-president of the National Building Chamber in Parliament, and I said, "Do something!" Because in 1990 we didn't really have a chance in other areas, but we had a great staff quickly catching up with the trend of modernity that came from the West. It's just that we were on our knees because of that bill. Thousands of companies were dying with no backup. Mr. Marshal, I'm happy today that there's this bill. It's a shame it's so late. You're a little late, too. We could have saved a lot of companies working on highways. But there is a Polish saying: better late than never. I will no longer repeat what Mr President said. Because I wanted to say what caused the congestion, I wanted to talk about the general contractor's relations, I wanted to talk about investors, but Mr Kopeć said everything. All I can tell you is that we just had a fight because the minister came in with the bill. I must say, this is one of the few laws that you have behind you the smart Legislative Office that works in our Senate. Once again, at this historic moment, I am proud to tell you, Mr. Marshal: thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u295	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The joint discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1305 and the report of the committee In print No 1305 A. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the Law amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 11 September 2019. The main objective of the Law on the amendment of the Act low emissions resulting from the combustion of solid fuels in kilns and domestic boilers. In order to achieve this objective, solutions have been proposed to seal the current emission standards for solid fuel boilers and to strengthen the surveillance and control of the placing on the market of boilers. The proposed regulations limit the placing on the market of boilers not complying with the emission standards laid down in national and Union legislation. Only low emission boilers, so called, will be allowed to be placed on the market. fifth-class boilers. The effect of the changes is to reduce dust emissions and other harmful substances. From 1 October 2017, the Regulation of the Minister for Development and Finance of 1 August 2017 on requirements for solid fuel boilers which prohibit production and from 1 July 2018 also the placing on the market of boilers with a capacity of up to 500 kW which do not have the highest fifth emission class. However, these provisions are not fully effective because they do not prevent the importation into Poland of boilers which do not meet these requirements. As a result, such furnaces are still being introduced to the Polish market, which makes it difficult to fight smog. As explained by the explanatory memorandum, the Act is part of a broader legislative framework aimed at implementing the Government's Clean Air Programme. The adoption of the Act will allow the current rules to be sealed and lead to effective enforcement of restrictive standards concerning the requirements to be met by the solid fuel boiler placed on the market. Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the institution required to carry out checks on operators marketing solid fuel boilers will be the Trade Inspection. They will be controlled, among others. compliance of equipment with the requirements, including by laboratory testing of boilers, possession of appropriate documentation, certificates, certificates. The amendment will also allow trade inspection bodies to limit the placing on the market of equipment and impose administrative fines in the event of irregularities being detected. The new regulations will also allow for a ban on the placing on the Polish market of boilers which do not comply with national emission requirements, produced or authorised in other European Union countries and Turkey or which are legally produced in the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement which are party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. This will enable effective fight against fraud and will allow protection of Polish producers. The amendment was added in environmental law in Title V, Chapter VI, introducing the possibility of imposing administrative fines for breaching the prohibition on the marketing of solid fuel boilers not complying with the requirements laid down in the Regulation of the Minister for Development and Finance of 1 August 2017 on the requirements for solid fuel boilers. The provisions of Chapter VI also specify the amount of the fines and the jurisdiction of the imposing authorities. The Act in question also amends the Act of 26 July 1991 on personal income tax, the Act of 7 July 1994 and the Construction Law, the Act of 10 April 1997 and the Energy Law, the Act of 15 December 2000 on Trade Inspection and the Act of 11 March 2004 on value added tax. The Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Three amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. These amendments have been taken into account. The Commission requests the adoption of a law by the High Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u297	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Marek Nieżak like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any questions? There's no... They're here. Are they? Oh, Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. I have a quick question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u298	Minister, please tell me if it will be possible, in accordance with this law, to buy a boiler, e.g. in the Czech Republic and bring it to us. Will the individual buyer be able to do this, or does the law forbid it? I'm just asking if she's completely sealed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u299	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u300	Mr. Senator, this bill is very narrow. This scope concerns the control of traders who are involved in the marketing, sale of such boilers. In this sense, it does not concern consumers directly, although it does, of course, indirectly. That means the answer to your question is this. If the consumer simply goes to the Czech Republic and buys a boiler, then this bill, so to speak, will have nothing to do with it. Possibly, some Czech legislation would have to be an option, because they also have to implement the directive. Well, I assume you'd just buy it from a Czech entrepreneur. Right? So the answer is this: you can go abroad and buy a boiler in the Czech Republic as much as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u301	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Piech. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u302	Yes, I have a question. Minister, in that case, I'll ask you here. No, no, that's a short question. You said you could buy a boiler like this in the Czech Republic, but it must be a fifth-grade boiler. This may not be a fourth or third class boiler. EU regulations... Because in the European Union you can still buy class four boilers. Only in 2021 will these provisions be tightened up and only fifth-class boilers can be placed on the market. I don't think I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u303	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u304	Well, I'm still here, so to speak, I consulted, and I have some information that the fifth grade is still here. Class five, right? That the fifth grade, though, yes. Well, these are EU rules. We are implementing EU rules here, so I assume that other Member States The Union is also fulfilling this obligation and implementing it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u305	Thank you. No further questions. Senator Rotnicka. Ah, Senator Rotnicka. Minister, you're welcome... No, no, it's not gonna be... No, no, Senator... Minister, please come to the podium. It's not like... But I don't want to ask the Minister, I just want to say something. But you're welcome... Minister, if you'll kindly approach me, there may be a question to be asked. It's better to see ourselves than to answer back like that. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u306	Thank you very much. I don't think the Minister will have to answer. I would like to support Senator Piecha's statement that this concerns category five boilers. At the committee meeting, Minister Woźna presented all this in detail. The senators actually welcomed this law and voted unanimously in favour of it with those 3 amendments that you have just presented to Senator Piech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u307	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Kopec Tadeusz. Please take the floor of Senator Tadeusz Kopcia.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u308	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to propose an amendment to the Act of 11 September 2019 amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws. The amendment proposed by me aims to allow the installation of individual heat sources such as Class 5 solid fuel boilers meeting the requirements of the European Commission, where there are technical conditions for the supply of heat from heating or cooling systems. The amendment consists in changing the wording of the article. Point 4 (1) which amends Article. 7b of the Act of 10 April 1997 on Energy Law. I propose that in the article. Article 7b (7) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 point 2 of the amended law The energy law after the words "or heat pump' or "electric heating' shall be added to the wording "or solid fuel boiler' meeting the requirements set out in Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 2015/1189 of the European Commission of 28 April 2015 implementing Directive 2009/125/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to ecodesign requirements for solid fuel boilers. The justification for my amendment. The installation of fifth class boilers is in line with the EU regulation I mentioned. The European Commission Regulation introduces an obligation to install boilers that meet its requirements in the European Union by 2020. The introduction of these provisions is primarily intended to ensure that carbon dioxide, particulates, organic gas compounds and carbon monoxide emissions are reduced. Class 5 boilers reduce emissions of pollutants to 90% compared to non-class boilers. In addition, attention should be paid to social issues. For citizens, maintaining the possibility of installing the highest quality solid fuel boilers is in line with their expectations. An increasing environmental awareness should therefore be taken into account. The combustion of high quality solid fuel in adapted boilers significantly eliminates the negative environmental effects. In addition, the choice of solid fuel is influenced by economic issues. I'm calling for an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u309	Thank you, Senator. Please, Mr. Marshal. I'd still like to speak up. Please take the floor of Senator Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It was a good thing that in 2015 we started implementing the Clean Air programme. Its taking is due to negligence, which has been for 20 and 30 years. Especially in the south of Poland, this smog, this low emission is giving off. In single-family buildings, classless boilers were most often installed, which emitted a lot of solid pollutants, which made breathing such air unbearable. Therefore, social pressure, bottom-up pressure forced the rulers to implement the emission standards that are enshrined in the EU directives into our legislation. Class 5 boilers at manual loading of solid fuel. because there are 2 types of these boilers They emit 60 mg of dust per m3, boilers with an automatic feeder emit 40 mg of dust per m3. These are already trace sizes. Classless boilers emitted more than 1,000 mg and caused air breathing in Silesia, especially in Rybnik, Żywiecczyn, where weather conditions in winter are such that there are windless days, cold air and smog persisting, it was very difficult. The use of Class 5 boilers will cause this factor to be slowly eliminated. Well, it's gonna take a little time. Voivodship Sejmikas passed resolutions which oblige inhabitants of Śląska or other voivodships to replace non-class furnaces on the fifth class furnace This applies to solid fuels Until 2022. In my opinion, this problem should disappear. In addition, single-family buildings are, so to speak, devoid of thermomodernization, of what we call energy efficiency. Improving energy efficiency will reduce the amount of solid fuels consumed. We don't have gas everywhere. To bring the gas to all the cities, all the settlements... Well, we don't have that kind of infrastructure right now. It slowly changes, we switch to environmentally neutral fuels, to gas, to heat pumps, to electricity. It'll allow us to breathe air in the cities. Of course, there will still be a problem of communication smog, which affects Warsaw and big cities not only in Poland, but also abroad, e.g. Milan or Paris. It's said that traffic is limited there so that the smog disappears. Car burns form a suspension, and you can't breathe in these cities. I'm built by what we've created. It's a shame it's so late. We could have started this program earlier, just like it happened in the Czech Republic. The Czechs already implemented such a plan in 2009 and they are practically out of trouble with it. It was also a country where... In the northern part of the Czech Republic, where there were coal pits, there was the same problem as ours. They've dealt with it, and we'll deal with it, too. We have money for the Clean Air programme, there is over PLN 100 billion by 2027. This money will help improve air quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u311	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposal put forward? No. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Environment. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1294, and the report of the Commission In print No 1294 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The purpose of the amendment of the Act. Environmental law, Senate printing no. 1294, is among others. transposition of Directive 2015/996 of the European Union of 19 May 2015 This is the first case. The second point is to address the shortcomings identified by the European Commission in the transposition of Directive 2002/49/EC of the European Parliament of 25 June 2002 relating to the assessment and management of environmental noise levels, hereinafter referred to as Directive 2002/49/EC. The aim of the Act is also to clarify the provisions concerning the sound mapping process So to put it synthetically, I'm going to say this. The existing provisions on the drawing up of acoustic maps, the development of environmental programmes against noise and the transmission of data and information resulting from these maps and programmes to the European Commission are not fully effective and sufficient. Hence the need for change. There is also no regulation regarding the transmission to the European Commission, before each mapping round, information on agglomerations, main roads, main railway lines and major airports to be covered by the mapping process. Environmental legislation currently does not regulate the transmission of data from the European Commission's maps. It must be noted that the current rules do not have... It can be said that the Minister for Environmental Protection has no legal instruments to influence the timely introduction of acoustic maps and programmes. The existing legislation does not provide for the obligation for operators to delegate to the Minister for the Environment an obligation to introduce programmes for the summary of these programmes in order to transmit them to the European Union. And that's, you could say, the main need for change. It is about adapting the environmental legislation on noise to the requirements of the European Union Directive. This law did not awaken in the Seym or the Senate special controversy, it was adopted almost unanimously on the Senate committee. I ask the High House to adopt this law in order to implement the European Union Directive into the legal order of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u313	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Sławomir Mazurek like to speak on the bill under consideration? No, thank you. Mr. Chairman introduced her very well. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. No such questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1304, and the report of the Commission In print No 1304 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I have the honour to present an opinion on the Law on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family; print No 1304. What's the purpose of the bill? The aim of the Act is to increase this year, from 1 August this year, the write-down to the Social Fund created for persons receiving pensions, invalidity pension or family pension on the basis of pension provisions for soldiers and uniformed officers and to increase the write-down to the Social Welfare Fund, calculated in relation to the average number of employees, for employers obliged or voluntarily undertaking to set up such a fund. That's the first target. The second objective is to increase expenditure limits for the implementation of the Large Family Charter Act in the current year. The Legislative Office considered that in order to remain in line with the protection of interests in progress, a transitional provision should be drawn up which would meet the following demands. Firstly, an increase in the write-down from 1 August is mandatory for employers other than local government units operating in the form of budgetary units. Secondly, an increase in the write-down from 1 August is optional for all other employers. There was a discussion around it, but no one proposed any proposal to implement these demands of the Legislative Office. All present senators voted in favour of the bill without amendment. The bill is short, so I wrote very briefly. She really only applies to a few rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u315	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Tomasz Robaczyński like to speak on the bill under consideration? No, thank you very much. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. No such questions. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. For the record, Senator Robert Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1301, and the report of the Commission − in print No 1301 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report to the committee. I'm declaring a moment of technical recess... I invite Senator Mr. Frost, the committee's rapporteur. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today, the Committee of Budgets and Finances and the Committee of Local Government gave an opinion on amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units. This law introduces a number of important amendments. The first is to extend by 2 years, until 2021, the rules that define the influence of the voivodship government to the state budget and the way these revenues are distributed. The second major change concerns voivodship roads. We change this law to subsidies which we receive from the state budget of the voivodship offices for the maintenance of voivodship roads, to subsidies. Grants are more targeted, subsidies give more freedom to dispose of these funds. And these are the two most important changes. This law has a positive opinion of the government committee and of the local government. Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance, presenting it, pointed out that it was such an extension of the current rules, but ultimately and the government, and the local governments expect a change in the way the local government is financed in terms of tax revenues, the receipts that the local governments receive. This law did not raise much controversy, it was adopted unanimously, unanimously, because 8 senators, i.e. all present, were in favour. And one more question, namely our Legislative Office had legislative, technical and legislative comments, there were no substantive comments. The joint committees, as I said, unanimously approved this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u317	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Tomasz Robaczyński like to speak on the bill under consideration? No, thank you very much. No. Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. No such questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on the repeal of the Act on special hydrocarbon tax and on the amendment of certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1300 and the committee report In print No 1300 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee. There's no senator. I'm declaring a short technical recess. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 42 to 20 minutes 48]] Come in, sir. We're continuing our deliberations. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u318	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The joint committees dealt with the opinion of the Act on the repeal of the Act on special hydrocarbon tax and on the amendment of certain laws. In particular, the Act in question repeals the Act on a special hydrocarbon tax, while at the same time changing the time limit for taxing the extraction of natural gas and crude oil set in accordance with the Act on the tax on the extraction of certain minerals. The law on the extraction of certain minerals taxes copper, silver, natural gas and oil. Retirement pension. The Act taxes profits from hydrocarbon mining, assuming profits from natural gas and oil extraction by non-orthodox methods. It's the so-called method. slate. And in view of the emergence of a certain hope a few years ago for exploration of deposits that were not sufficiently explored, and a certain forecast, certain hope that there are large deposits under our country, which in a technically easy, technologically, at an affordable price... which will be available gas sources, introduced this particular tax. And this bill... In fact, we are pulling out of this a little bit, because, so to speak, prosperity in these deposits in such an easy and cost-effective operation is not enough to make this tax work. During the committee meeting, the Minister here was asked questions. The Minister was brief and brief on the subject. We have avoided any controversy, we have avoided discussions other than thematic, technical discussions, and the committee therefore recommends the High House to give a positive opinion on the proposed law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u319	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does Minister Tadeusz Kościński wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No, thank you. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1299, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1299 A and 1299 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances gave its opinion on this law. She generally introduces various types of mechanisms to improve execution in the administration, these solutions are very much. It introduces some solutions to the electronic circulation of documents by providing automatic implementation titles by the electronic system, and also amends a lot of laws on banking law through the execution of bank savings and credit registers' accounts here we introduce such solutions as are in banking law. They are introduced, among others. the rules resulting from European Union legislation, such that when customs duties are enforced, they are met first in relation to interest, because the customs duty is the income of the European Union and the interest is the income of the State budget. So that we are bound by EU rules here too. This law was not controversial. Our Senate Legislative Office has made 3 comments, but without proposals for amendments. The first point was... our legislator asked to clarify a certain intention of writing. The other 2 comments were purely legislative in nature, it was a kind of grammatical wording and some terms which, in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, were perhaps vague. As for the other two issues, it was the Minister... who represented him, the department director, who said that he did not share these concerns. The bill was adopted by four votes in favour, unanimously. There's one more thing. We have here a very long period of vacathio legis, it is 9 months. This is because all these solutions... The scope of these changes is very large, wide, the point is to prepare on the one hand some ICT systems in the tax administration and on the other hand to change many other regulations. So that here is a very long period of implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u321	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u322	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I am very pleased to be able to present a report by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 11 September 2019 amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions was held today. During the sitting, no one spoke. All the senators present at the committee were in favour of this law without amendment. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I request that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u323	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I don't see anyone willing to ask such questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does Minister Tadeusz Kościński wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I don't see anyone willing to ask such questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Robert Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 1306 and the report of the committee In print No 1306 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u324	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The joint committees gave an opinion on the Law amending the Water Law and certain other laws. The Act is partly the implementation of the Directive of the European Commission, and partly serves to transfer the tasks and competences of certain other bodies to the State Water Management Authority of Polish Waters and to transfer tasks within the Polish Waters. There is also an amendment to the provisions concerning the financing of certain water administration tasks, the amendment of certain provisions concerning procedures for permits and water law consents, as well as the revision of the time limits for carrying out certain obligations under water law and changes of a terminology nature. The bill presented is extensive. Detailed questions were raised during the committee meeting. The questions were answered by a representative of the Ministry, who was Minister Anna Moscow. The responses were not controversial. It was a calm, substantive committee meeting during which the senators' doubts were explained. The joint committees recommend to the High House a positive opinion on the bill presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u325	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see anyone willing to ask such questions. Thank you, Senator. Dismissed until 9:10 p.m. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 59 to 21 minutes 11]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u326	I'm reopening the session. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to the meeting of Ms Anna Moscow, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would also like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act on Work on Fishing Ships. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1307 and the report of the committee In print No 1307 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 24 September, at the joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure, the Act on Work on Fishing Ships adopted by the Sejm on 11 September 2019 was discussed. It transposes Directive 2017/159 of the Council of the European Union of 19 December 2016 implementing the Agreement on the implementation of the International Labour Organisation Convention on Labour in the Fisheries Sector 2007, concluded on 21 May 2012 between the General Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives to the European Union, the European Transport Workers' Federation and the Association of National Business Organisations in the Fisheries Sector in the European Union. At the same time, this law aims to bring national legislation into line with the requirements of Convention 188 on Labour in the Fisheries Sector, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007. The draft law approving the ratification of this Convention is the subject of legislative work and is to be adopted in this parliamentary term. The legislation in question regulates all issues which require legislative intervention due to the specificities of fishermen's work on fishing vessels. Its essence is to ensure that the work on fishing vessels of Polish nationality, performing so-called. commercial fishing was a safe work. Requirements relating to the health of fishermen, remuneration rules, working conditions and life on board fishing vessels are being considered. Particular emphasis is placed on measures to eliminate occupational risks, the availability of personal protective equipment, clothing and work shoes, and on compliance with health and safety rules. Work placement issues are also very important. The legislation in question contains provisions which standardise the responsibilities of fishermen for violating the rules of procedure and for being on board a fishing vessel and the criminal rules to which shipowners and persons acting on their behalf are to be subject. The Act on Work on Fishing Ships makes the necessary amendments to other normative acts, including the Act of 18 August 2011 on Maritime Safety, and the Act of 5 August 2015 on Maritime Work. The Act is to enter into force on 15 November 2019 and only on a number of provisions a later date has been set. The course of legislative work was that the Legislative Bureau made 10 comments, including 7 proposals for amendments, which were not accepted. And the bill was voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u328	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u329	Senator Rapporteur, my question is as follows. Following the completion of the work of the International Labour Organisation in 2007, the case was brought to the European Union, where the proposal was adopted and followed up in 2016. Turn on the mike, please. We're in 2019 today... Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, sir, but you have to put your card on to get the mic on, because then there's a recording of the transmission. So I'm gonna ask you again from the beginning. I'm getting out of shape. Well, no, such an experienced senator... Now it's only working now. It's all over again, okay? So that everything will be recorded in accordance with the procedures. You're welcome, Senator. But nothing has changed because the question is the same, Mr Marshal and Mrs Senator Rapporteur. Namely, the International Labour Organisation ratified, adopted this convention, and these 3 recommendations are called, and in 2007 the European Union adopted this for implementation by its members in 2016. It's 2019. Why, in such important matters, work, as you rightly pointed out, pay, stay on ships This ratification by Poland lasted this long?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u330	Senator, this was not discussed at the joint committee meeting and I am unable to answer you why it took so long. I think that's the question you can ask the Minister. Will he answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u331	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I understand you're Senator Rulewski. Come on in... I'm not gonna say it again because you got it. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u332	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Indeed, this essential part of the convention is the end of 2016, in fact the beginning of 2017. The point is that we should be aware that it is not that we have functioned without these regulations during this time. They really were, but in the Maritime Work Act. We wondered whether to separate this separate bill or leave it in that law, but we decided after the dialogue with fishermen that it would be easier to combine it in one document. And we really started a dialogue with the environment about what we are transferring to this law. So it's not like the environment has remained unregulated for that time. It should also be noted that some of these rules are only coming in two years, because an information and port system is being built, which is also part of this convention, and we really do not even have to implement it now. This is more of an environment-based approach than a convention requirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u333	Thank you very much. There are still questions. Stay here, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions. One more general nature. Namely, there are certain rights related to the pursuit of the profession of fisherman, but the powers on the one hand give rise to obligations on the other, in this case the obligations of the ship owner as to the quality of the equipment of the vessels. Can this new law somehow eliminate any of our fishing vessels currently in use because of the failure to comply with these new requirements? And second question. The Act enters into force on 15 November, unhappily, because there is a short period until that date. You think she's... Will this be fulfilled? It's about the time of the bill's entry into force. That first question was a little more general.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u335	Thank you very much. We don't have any concerns here, because like I said, we don't impose new responsibilities. To a large extent, we rewrite these requirements from various other laws and clarify them. And our fishing units are adapted to these standards. As you can see, there are no exceptional emission standards or difficult parameters, we do not require LNG or solar power, but these are basic parameters that provide safety rather than high technical requirements. This met with good acceptance of the environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u336	You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u337	There was a statement from you or from the rapporteur senator that this law applies to ships belonging to Poland... Well, it was a similar phrase. I understand, of course, that this applies to Polish fishermen. But does it also apply to people of other nationalities in the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u338	It concerns Polish units. So if we get a foreign citizen... Of course, there are provisions of labour law in the case of a contract concerning whether fishermen or other persons who are on board fishing vessels, according to the flag, to tax... Nothing changes around here. However, of course this applies to Polish units, we cannot impose these requirements on other units. But you must also be aware that Polish individuals are actually swimming in our waters. We're talking about basic fishing units. We don't have big feeds that swim somewhere far, in the Baltic waters or any other.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u339	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u340	I kindly inform you about the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee on the examination of legislative proposals for the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other laws to be held tomorrow, 26 September 2019 at 8.30 a.m. in room 179. And the second message. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of applications submitted to the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws will take place tomorrow, 26 September, at 8.40 p.m. in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-25-senat-85-1.u341	Thank you very much. I'm calling a recess until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 25]]
