ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u1	I open the seventy-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the seventy-fourth meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 70th Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the first item of the draft agenda be considered, even though the printed matter has been delivered at a later date than that specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request that the present Senate meeting not be put on the agenda of the law on education law because of the extraordinary mode of work on this law. We dealt with him in the Sejm, where within 1 hour 30 minutes the whole discussion was held, all reading of this legal act. It wouldn't be good if we duplicated the wrong pattern in the Senate. That's one thing. Secondly, the reason why the government submitted the project to the marshal's staff disappeared. The teacher's strike has been suspended, so it is unnecessary to proceed with the Senate bill. Unfortunately, this law changes the education system in Poland. She's not just a one-time interference into the system, she's changing the whole system. So, in order to carry it out, as most people wish, we should have much more time to think about and much more time to discuss at the Senate meeting. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote, there is a vote of opposition. Who is in favour of my proposal for the agenda that I have presented to you? Who's in favour of my offer? My card doesn't work. I'm sorry. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to... [[Sorry, mine's not working either.]] It's just a little while longer. We'll wait for the cards to work that don't work. Please report the results. 68 senators voted, 44 were in favour of my proposal, 24 against. [[Voting No 1]] Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome, Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am applying for the transfer of the law to be considered by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. I'm saying this as chairman of this committee. The subject matter of the committee is the matter of this law. I mean, it's the government that's under obligation...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u5	Mr. Senator, but this... [[Yes?]] We're making arrangements right now. As I've been... [[Well, that's okay...]] No, later. When you consider this point, you can report this... [[I've been consulting...]] No, not before I consider this point. We're considering order right now... [[Right.]] We're talking about order, and we're not talking about proceding mode. I'm taking you... [[No, I'm not talking about proceding mode...]] I don't recognize you... [[...I'm talking about referral to committee. So, in a minute, yeah?]] Mr. Senator, in a minute... [[Okay, in a minute...]] Not right now, you're filing a motion... [[Well, that's what I agreed...]] But you didn't agree... [[Okay...]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[It's okay. I'll check in later.]] Yeah, later. You're welcome to speak again. Anyone else on the matter of order, ladies and gentlemen? Order-to-order, not proceding mode, just order. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm the one who'll come back later.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that the order be supplemented by point two concerning government information on security of oil supply and price stability. This has to do with the latest information that the largest oil supplies, those from Russia by Belarus have been stopped. There is a danger, already known earlier, that energy weapons have been used against Poland. There is no need to remind this House, which means that there is no supply of 10 million t of oil to the Płock refinery. Although, according to conflicting information... PERN and Orlen claim that they are the ones who do not take oil or that Belarus has stopped supplies, and even if that is the reason for this information. But there is no need to stress the importance of oil for our economy, for the functioning of contracts. Although Orlen ensures that liquidity will be maintained through sea supplies, which will help the Saudi Arabian group, but I have serious concerns that the port in Gdansk is not adapted to accept this huge amount of oil... [[Mr. Senator, you're in the middle of a political argument right now. I'm asking you to file a motion, and that's it.]] And I'm asking you, if you don't understand something, even if you listen to the justification. [[I understand very well, but I don't understand you.]] I think you know, in your medical art, it didn't occur. In my play, yes, and that's why I'm asking... [[But you have to file a motion, briefly justify...]] Don't censor my justification because I'm almost done. [[Mr. Senator, there are regulations and I stand by the rules.]] And what does that rule book say? You can't justify it? [[That's a short explanation, and you're already out of time for a short justification.]] Then please specify what it means to be short, Mr. Marshal. [[Three minutes. And you've been out of your league for three minutes.]] It didn't cross. Thank you. Then I move that the marshal put my motion to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u7	The proposal is irregular, but I will put it to the vote. It's irregular because any senator can file a motion like this 10 days before the session starts. But I'll take that motion to vote. I'm against him. We're voting. Who's in favor of bringing this point to order? Who's against it? Please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Irregular? But how...]] The proposal is irregular, Senator. I couldn't put him to the vote at all and take your vote away as soon as you've started your speech. It's the rules. It would be good for the senators to read the rules. I encourage you to read the rules. Please report the results. There were 70 senators voted, 21 for, 46 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 2]] Mr. Senator's motion was rejected... an irregular motion was rejected. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. [[Formal conclusion.]] But first you were Marshal Borusewicz. [[Of course, okay.]] I am merely reminding you that I have asked the question: would any of your senators like to speak on the proposed agenda? That was the question, and that's what you senators are answering right now. There you go. [[I would like to speak on this point.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u8	Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask you to extend the agenda to include a point: the government's information on the strike situation in education... [[Voice from the room: Suspended...]] [[The strike was suspended, I heard.]] ...in education... [[Voice from the room: There is no more strike.]] [[Voice from the room: Suspended.]] [[So it is.]] Although the strike has been suspended or suspended, problems in education do not disappear. I would like the government to express its position on the resolution of this conflict, which will continue because it was connected with the dissatisfaction of teachers and what PiS called education reform, and what I call a deformity of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. The Marshal's motion is irregular, but I will put it to the vote. [[No, no, Mr. Marshal...]] Who's in favor of the senator's request? I'm against it. [[Mr. Marshal...]] It's irregular, because that's the conclusion, Mr. Senator, you can report 10 days before the meeting. [[No, no. On the basis of the article. 34...]] Okay, I'll put you to the vote... [[I want to expand...]] Extend... yeah, good. [[Same as Senator Rulewski.]] Okay. That, too, was an irregular conclusion. But I'll put it to a vote... [[He was born in five hours too!]] Let's go... We put to the vote the Marshal's motion. Who's in favour of introducing this point, Mr. Marshal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 47 against. [[Voting No 3]] The motion was rejected. Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u10	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal motion, namely, a motion to... I ask Mr. Marshal to inform the government about the situation in Polish education. Not about the strike, but about the situation in Polish education. What about grad school, and what about teachers' demands? And I would like to address an important point, Mr. Marshal. This is in my opinion a motion for regulation, because it was not possible for me to file it 10 days ago, because yesterday at 4:38 p.m., I found out that there would be a Senate meeting today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u11	I therefore put these proposals to the vote. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you kindly. I'm against it. Now you're welcome... We'll put the senator's motion to the vote immediately. Who's... We're putting it to the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 25 against, 47 against. [[Voting No 4]] The senator's motion was rejected. [[Mr. Marshal...]] You're Senator Rulewski, aren't you? You're welcome. On the agenda - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think I'll meet your expectations. Namely one and a half years ago a group of senators submitted a draft resolution... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...a draft resolution... Oh, thank you for your sympathy! I hope it's a rule book. ... Draft resolution calling for recognition of the choice... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ... President of the Donald Tusk European Council. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's gonna be funny when it's Mr. Marshal and this group called Senators... [[Applause]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u13	Come on, Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator! I'm calling you into order. I call you to order! If you'll excuse me right now... [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry...]] ...or I'll take your voice away. [[Excuse me!]] Who did you apologize to? [[This group called the senators. So they're real senators...]] Mr. Senator, he's not... [[...with laughter, with a smile.]] Mr. Senator... Okay, here you go. I understand your conclusion. Thank you very much. [[No! Excuse me! I didn't finish my justification. 3 minutes, you say in the regulations...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I've already understood your conclusion. [[No, you didn't understand. You didn't understand, because you didn't...]] Mr. Senator, I'm taking your voice back! Thank you very much. [[No! Mr. Marshal...]] Thank you very much. I'm gonna take your vote. [[You're making a big fan on the fourth...]] I've already... I'm taking your voice away. For the first time, sir... [[The High House would like to know if Senator Tusk will be invited to this ceremony. And in what capacity? It's new, and that's why it's necessary...]] Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator, you have offended the sacred memory of Senator Kutz. He's dead. Okay, I'll remind you. [[I wasn't talking about Kutz. I was talking about Tusk.]] [[Voices from the hall: Tusk's the point!]] Yes? Thank you very much. Sit down. [[Listen, and then you won't be...]] Okay, thank you very much. I'm gonna take your vote. The senator's motion, however, will be put to the vote. You're welcome. Who's in favor of Senator Rulewski's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted against, 25 against, 47 against. [[Voting No 5]] The senator's motion was rejected. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No, thank you. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the seventy-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just a moment, Senator, I'll ask you at the right time. Now that we're discussing the point, I'll give you the floor immediately, but this is not the time yet. [[Thank you.]] I have important information that I would like to present to you and to all the senators present. I inform you senators that if the Sejm adopts a law amending the Law on Administrative Courts and the Act on the National Council of Courts and after the preparation of the report by the Senate Committee, the agenda may be supplemented by this item. Therefore, before the vote on the first item, a meeting of the Seniors' Convention will be held on the opinion of the enlargement of the agenda and the extension of the current sitting by another day, i.e. by 26 April 2019. We proceed to the first item of the agenda. And now, Mr. Senator, all I'm going to read is that the point concerns the law on amending the education system and the law on education law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1160 and the report of the Commission in print No 1160 A. The senator is filing a formal motion. You're welcome. [[Yes, sir.]] Please. [[Thank you very much...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 48 (1) (a) 2 point 6 formally apply to refer this law to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The subject matter of the Act falls within the scope of the action of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. In fact, the substance of this submission is precisely the burden on the local government of certain powers or obligations which have so far been attached to collegial bodies, such as pedagogical councils. I therefore believe that it is necessary to refer this matter to the committee responsible for examining this law. I also believe that it is not possible to convene a committee meeting today. As chairman, I would expect representatives of local governments to speak on this, because it is normal that such important laws are dealt with by a joint committee of government and local government. There is no way that the voice of the local government can be heard here, which is why this request for referral is, of course, linked to the fact that this committee meeting... Well, it certainly couldn't be happening today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u15	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator, thank you very much. I'm voting on this motion because I'm against it. Besides, I didn't pass this bill on to the local government committee... But, of course, we are voting on the senator's motion. Who's in favor of Senator Zientarski's request? Who's against Senator Zientarski's motion? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted against, 24 against, 47 against. [[Voting No 6]] The senator's motion was rejected. [[One more, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome. It's a formal conclusion, isn't it? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to make a request that this draft law should also be dealt with by the Social Affairs Committee. She obviously has much broader competence, but it is in the custom of this committee to invite trade union representatives in situations that require this consultation, and at the moment we are dealing with one of the most serious, most tense, I would say, hot social conflicts of recent years. We are dealing with a situation in which nearly 600 000 teachers have been struck. We are dealing with the situation that these teachers, as a result of this right that we will debate, can be brought into the role of subjects and lose their subjectivity. Therefore, I think it would be worthwhile to have a debate on this in the relevant committee, and this is the committee of senior affairs and social policy. Using this committee, we would give the House an opportunity to speak also to representatives of these trade unions who participated in the entire multi-month negotiation, discussion and negotiation process on the problems of the teaching environment. So, Mr. Marshal, I request that this bill be carried out by the Social Affairs Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u17	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] What about the senator? [[Formal conclusion.]] I'll put this motion to the vote first, and then I'll ask you to report the next one. Okay? Who is in favour of passing this law to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted against, 25 against, 47 against. [[Voting No 7]] And there you go, now Senator Slugocki, the next formal motion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a formal motion, Mr. Marshal. I am aware that the postulates he has put forward, among others. My clubmate, Senator Zientarski, may not be accepted, but I think it would be a good thing, Mr. Marshal, to have a group of Members who have submitted a draft regulation... well, at least that the representative should bother and be polite to appear in the House of the High House... [[But right now, what kind of...]] ...and introduce... [[What bill? Which one? Who's the applicant? This is a government project.]] Government project? [[Government.]] It's my question that's different... [[But now we're not asking questions, we're making formal requests.]] It's my formal conclusion that's... [[What formal conclusion? Formal conclusion. There's no round of questions right now, just conclusions... we've actually been through...]] Are there any representatives...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u19	But this is not a formal conclusion, Senator. I'm gonna take your vote. Thank you very much. [[No, no, no, Mr. Marshal, a formal proposal to be a representative of the Council of Ministers, and best of all, the Prime Minister, who promised teachers a raise, spoke about it publicly, fails to fulfil this obligation...]] Mr. Senator, I'm taking your voice back because... oh, I'm taking it back, I'm sorry... [[I'm very sorry, Mr. Marshal, but perhaps that's a good move.]] No kidding, this is no place for jokes. Thank you very much, because it wasn't a formal conclusion. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Scientific, Education and Sports Commission of the Senate of the Republic of Poland held today a meeting devoted to the review of the Act on the amendment of the Law on the system of education and the Law of Education, Senate Printing No 1160. At the beginning of the committee's meeting, the question was whether the committee agreed to hold this meeting in connection with the delivery of prints today, as required by the Article. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, and the committee gave its consent. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the bill which the Sejm has passed and which we are currently proceeding is a short law, is concluded on incomplete 3 pages of printing, but it is an extremely important act, because it is a law that fills an important gap in the legislation on the education system. Of course, the impulse and direct cause was the strike by teachers, but we know that the lack of classification of students can be caused by different situations of life. And just such a gap in the form of a lack of rules determining what should be done in such a situation is fulfilled by this amendment of the Law on the system of education and the Law of Education, contained in the Senate print No 1160. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to stress that the right to study is an important constitutional law enshrined in Article. 70 of our constitution, but also one of the fundamental human rights contained in the article. 26 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in Art. 28 the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Article. 14th International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. This law, this amendment of the law, meets an extremely important need, which young people are extremely emotional about, because non-graduation would seriously jeopardise the lives of those young people who would like to continue learning, but would not be able to do so. Therefore, this amendment of the law, caused by the situation, is, however, a much more general law. We hope that in the future it will deal with extremely rare, individual cases, such as teachers' disease or some random cases... [[Death...]] ...but it also applies to the situation that we are currently dealing with. This law provides for, like, three changes. The first amendment concerns the situation of non-classifying pupils by the pedagogical board. Then these powers are transferred to the headmaster of the school. The second amendment is linked to the fact that if the Director fails to fulfil these obligations, then they are transferred to the school authority. In particular, it is possible to designate a teacher who can do this. The third provision is already directly linked to the situation which we are witnessing this year, at the moment, namely that it extends the period of classification of pupils by the following days, so that the latter day is not on the 26th of April. There is no doubt that these records are very necessary. However, the extraordinary way in which this law was carried out, which the senators were talking about, results from the fact that a huge group of students, but serious people who deserve respect, points out that their CVs were threatened by the current situation. It is a dilemma whether it is more important to have the right to learn guaranteed by the Constitution or the right to strike. It is the duty of the State to safeguard constitutional rights, and this is the way in which the provisions contained in that law work. Of course, we can have great hope. That's what the senator was talking about here. That the strike will be suspended, that teachers will take up work. This is, of course, very good news, but, first of all, there is no such certainty at all, and secondly, such situations can also happen in the future. In other situations, they can affect a much smaller number of people, but these records deserve attention as much as possible. I must say that the Legislative Bureau did not raise any significant objections. There was one point, but it was a rather complicated record, which would even be difficult to fix. He does not have any material effects. At the same time, two proposals were submitted during the committee meeting: one for adoption of the law without amendments, the other for rejection of the law. The Commission, in a vote in which 6 votes were in favour, 1 against and no one abstained, accepted a motion addressed to the High Senate to adopt this law without amendment. As far as the motion to reject the bill is concerned, 1 senator was in favour, 6 against and no one abstained. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the nature of the solution we are talking about could be extended to discuss the situation in schools, teachers, reform. However, it seems that this goes far beyond the matter of this law. Of course, this discussion can be held, it is up to the marshal to decide how much this discussion will be extended. In any case, the committee focused strictly on what the Sejm adopted, and we discussed it. We think that this is a very important record. It makes such an impression as if it were an ad hoc rule, and indeed the situation that caused its adoption is that, but the need itself... That's the kind of record you need. There must be an emergency path in the event of a different life situation. There is no doubt that the outcome of the committee's vote reflected this. Mr Dworczyk spoke about this at the committee meeting. Moreover, representatives of the Ministry of National Education were present, who also provided some detailed explanations. Therefore, I have no doubt, and on behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to adopt this law without amendments, as the committee said in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask the senator about the committee's work and whether Although the law clearly has a political purpose, that is to say, to get rid of the immediate political trouble of the governing camp, the committee invited trade union representatives to its meeting, and if so, representatives of which unions appeared and whether they participated in the opinion and in the debate on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u23	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u24	Thank you. I have two questions. First of all, I think the most important thing is: where is the opinion of our Legislative Office? I'm asking because just an explanation, what the senator said was that this is a short bill... Once again, we're meeting with something that we don't have an opinion of the Legislative Bureau. I think it's outrageous. I would like to ask if, at the committee meeting, Mr Senator pointed out that we have no opinion today. That's the first question. The second relates to competences that will be transferred from teachers or school heads to wójtów. For me, this is a situation as if the Legislative Commission decided tomorrow e.g. that if the court and the judges strike, the mayor or the mayor will give the judgment. It's exactly the same logic. I would like to ask if there was a discussion at the committee's meeting about the extent to which these mayors and uncles were prepared... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute...]] ...to perform... [[It's way over...]] ...teacher duties.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u25	It's been over a minute and a half. Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Senator Tight. You're welcome. The question lasts a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u26	Senator, on the grounds that this law was introduced, you said that we were in an emergency situation, that is, in a situation where the committee had to consider whether the right to education was higher than the right to strike. And was the committee wondering how this emergency happened? Whose fault is that? And what did the government do at the time? I ask because the protest, the collective dispute between teachers and the government has been going on for over three months? What happened on the government's side at the time that this was the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please respond to three senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u28	If this is about inviting a trade union, I'm gonna say yes. In the case of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the situation is that we invite, I would not like to use the word "standard," but... Normally the situation is such that for example. in the case of universities, we invite representatives of the conference of rectors, the main board of science or the Polish Academy of Sciences, such institutions and, as far as trade unions are concerned, they themselves declare their willingness to participate in the meeting of the committee. I, as president, most often... I don't actually remember the case that I didn't consent to their presence. So that the situation here is rather the opposite. Information about the committee's meeting was and whoever wanted to take part in it was taking part. I didn't have any information that anyone who wanted to attend the committee's meeting would have a hard time attending. As regards the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, I must say that there have been meetings of committees at which a representative of the Legislative Office said that he had not prepared an opinion because there was little time. This was not the case today, the legislator presented the oral opinion. She expressed her one doubt about a provision that, in my opinion, the legislator, after I had expressed this opinion, did not actually protest. It doesn't have any material effects. It's rather a matter of some legal elegance. So that this opinion was presented. As far as the authority of the mayors is concerned, in order to take such action, it must be pointed out here that the provision in the Act is quite different. I mean, the bill authorizes the mayors and the mayors to appoint the right person, it's even written down that it should be a teacher, and there's no doubt it's satisfying... During the committee meeting it was suggested that schools have quite well described evaluation systems and based on the collected data on pupils and on the basis of these evaluation systems it is possible to carry out such an evaluation. Of course, this emergency solution is related to this situation that is around us, but as I said in my report, such situations may happen. It's not just a matter of strike, there may be other situations and there must be an emergency path. The senator has abused the wording a little bit... The Commission was not concerned with considering whether the right to strike is more important than the right to learn, such considerations we did not lead. I merely quoted some extremely important documents, starting with the Constitution, ending with international conventions that talk about how important the right to study is. As for the other circumstances that you are asking about, what caused the strike, etc., I would say that this was not the subject of a committee meeting. This issue is not included in the amendment of the law that we dealt with, so that it... None of the participants of the meeting raised this problem and probably rightly, because it goes far beyond the matter of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Zientarski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, Mr. President, did the committee have any data from the curators, school heads or bodies leading to the fact that earlier, by abstracting from the strike, because you say that this is just in case, there were such situations as you say may have happened? I'm asking what scale it was. Were there any situations like this at all? ♪ 'Cause I haven't heard ♪ about the situation, so that students are not promoted or classified somewhere, but they do happen. disease, they are a normal matter. You say there's a loophole in there right now. I've never heard of such a gap. I've never heard of a petition like this before, so it's gonna take a hole like this... I'm asking for the data. Is it such a question: where does such a justification come from now, when this problem did not exist before?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u31	Thank you. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the regulation of the article. 4, in which there is a speech, among others. about the exams of eighth grade students. After all, you, I hope, as well as the legislator, are thinking about the Sejm here. He knows perfectly well that the eighth grade students' exams are already behind us. Why, then, is there a record? And second question, Mr. Senator. It concerns Article. 73a point 1. If the pedagogical board fails to adopt the resolution referred to in Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The school head shall decide on the results of the classification and promotion of pupils. Of course, if there is no school head, these competences, depending on the governing body, take over the management board of the county, voivodship or the mayor, the president, who does this on a one-man basis. This is the mayor, the president, the county board, the voivodship board on the basis of what does he perform these competences assigned to school heads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u34	I have a question that precedes today's time. Does this law in any way protect against this announced unsolved conflict Since September? Or will such a strict decree be applied? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u36	As for the data from the probation officers on whether there were such situations and on the scale... Of course, this information has not been provided to us in writing or in oral form. I happen to be an academic teacher, so I don't know that from the autopsy. If I remember correctly, at the committee meeting it was said that such cases had occurred and were tried to resolve them individually. When the teacher was on leave, they tried to contact him. That's what happened. They were tried to solve them individually. The scale was small and these cases were solved. As for the second question, which is the eighth grade and the fact that the exams were already... the answer to this question is very simple. This shows that this law simply does not apply only to April 2019, but also to certain more general situations that may happen. And that's where the record comes from. As for the next question: on what basis are the directors... [[The mayor, the president, the county board, the voivodship board...]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not that the authorities of the local government are completely confused about this subject. We know that they sit in competition committees that select directors, employ teachers, are present in the educational system on an ongoing basis, have relevant, specialised people in this area. However, it must be pointed out that it is clearly mentioned here that, in the event that the school head does not take the decision referred to in the paragraph. 1, the results of the classification and promotion of pupils are determined by the teacher appointed by the school authority, i.e. the person who is absolutely competent. Someone who calls himself a teacher is a competent person. One may wonder what procedure to select this teacher should be followed, but here we assume that we have confidence in local governments in such matters and in many other, much more serious ones. So that we shouldn't be here somehow... The last question has been about conflict since September. I don't quite understand that question. It is absolutely not related to this bill. That's why I'd ask your marshal to release me from this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u37	I'm firing the senator. Please, Senator Tomasz Grodzki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question, because at the moment when the committee was sitting, perhaps there was not yet a full awareness that this strike had been suspended. Was there a discussion about the fact that this regulation, which is not just about the strike... I will remind you that in 1993 the exams were delayed and no one prepared such decree regulations. Doesn't this regulation become unobtrusive? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u39	Thank you. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about a case that is not governed by the law, but seems to be relevant from the point of view of student interests, which may be affected by an actual random classification by a random person, which he will point out, for example. Uncle. In fact, a teacher who prepares this student and conducts classes is prepared for a proper assessment of the student's knowledge. What will happen if the classification harms the student, violates his rights by arbitrary decision of an unprepared, incompetent person? What kind of a student will have in this emergency situation, forceful terms are important The possibility of appealing against an arbitrary and incompetent decision?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u41	Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u42	Mr. Senator, in the article. 1 amending Article 44 §1 refers to 3 functions: evaluation, classification and promotion of pupils. Has the committee considered how to understand the concept of judging? Whether it's a one-time evaluation of a given object, or whether it's a one-time evaluation. After six months or at the end of the year? Is the point that the director of "and if he could not or did not want to do so, the founding body " would have the right to interfere in one-off assessment of the pupil on each subject, or is it the assessment at the end of the year? [[So in terms of promoting...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u43	Already? Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u44	The first question was that the strike was suspended, so why the bill? I'm sure it's like this. I've already talked about it twice from this speaker a while ago. There is a legal gap here that makes it impossible to assess, classify and promote these situations, from the point of view of a single person, a few groups or many people. I must say that on the occasion of this question there was such an insulting wording: a decree regulation. I would ask the senator to withdraw this phrase because this is an insult to the Sejm and the Senate. We shouldn't do that. It's a bill, ladies and gentlemen, it's a bill. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Question two, about the relationship: student's rights A random person who evaluates. Yeah, that's... Thank you very much for that question. It is very good, only that we have been talking about this topic for more than 2 months, that is, we are talking in terms of the teacher's mission, that the teacher's relationship is the teacher's relationship with the student, that it is a certain ecosystem of education and education, and that this strike as if it is bad for these relationships, this ethos and the whole situation... [[That's not true.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] To answer straightaway That doesn't change the fact that what I said earlier isn't important. I'll say this. Please note, Mr. Senator, that the wording of this article begins with words in the event of failure by the teacher. That teacher you said a few warm words about here has the first and inalienable right to do so. It's only in a situation where you give up on it or circumstances that you can't remove that cause that it can't, that the method is used, because what you're talking about... Here you have to say that there is some documentation, that teachers are obliged to keep some documentation. I understand that this assessment is largely based on this documentation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u45	These are all the answers, Mr. Senator? [[I asked you about judging.]] [[Yeah, I can see that, but...]] [[There was no answer. Still judging.]] [[What was the data... is that...]] What was the data... [[What's the problem?]] [[I have to say, I have it written short, Senator. If you say it again...]] Senator Zientarski will repeat the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u46	You were talking about that luce, and I was asking if there was any data from the parole officer, or...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u47	But I talked about it before, I talked about it in the previous round. [[It was said, yes.]] Now there's been an amendment, assessment, failure... [[But that's...]] [[There was an answer.]] I think it's a little connected to the previous question, but it's judging, grading and promoting... here was the distinction. Right? All these cases are regulated by this amendment only as regards the failure of the teacher. The teacher is always the first, he's unshakable, he's not threatened. In general, it is not possible for anyone to reach for his first powers in this regard to be able to do so. That's why it's a failure, and I've briefly written it down, evaluated, classified or promoted... It is absolutely unthreatening, the teacher has the first right and it is absolutely undeniable.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u48	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I'm sorry to inquire, but... thank you for your earlier response. You replied that the local government was included in the blood circulation of these small communities, local, county, local communities. I absolutely agree with you here, and I believe that the decentralisation of the state is a huge value that we have achieved since 1989. But if you'll excuse me, as I said, I'll be inquisitive. Mr. Senator, it is not abstract that all schools are inactive, that all teachers are inactive in these schools. And here the problem arises, that in large cities such as Poznań, Wrocław, Gdańsk, the number of officials employed e.g. in the Department of Education, the number of classes is X and the number of pupils who pass exams, e.g. eighth graders, high school students, etc., are so huge that they simply physically lack workers who could perform these three stages that sanction our bill. What then, Senator? [[Thank you very much...]] How did the mayor, the mayor, the president...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u50	Mr. Senator, you've been way over a minute. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u51	Thank you very much. Senator rapporteur, you are a specialist in education and upbringing. I'm not, so I'd like to ask you what it means to judge. Because I understand what it means to classify and promote students. Isn't that enough? For me, judging is a much more general category. We estimate that someone is capable, someone is incapable, etc. Or that it's forward-looking, suitable for college. And it's not just a matter of promoting, or issuing grades, I think. If I'm wrong, then get me out of this mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u53	However, I would like to ask the rapporteur to clarify the differences, to say what it is to judge, classify and promote, because we are not specialists, and I think it is worth saying so. I would also like to ask for an additional answer to the question of what is the basis for assessing what is the basis for classification and what is the basis for promoting the student. Are these 3 grounds, currently taken into account by teachers in the school education process, in the event of a situation in which the teacher refuses to evaluate, classify or promote, simply will not participate... On what basis in these three cases... On the basis of which they will carry out this assessment, classification and promotion of persons who have no idea at all and have never seen the student. Explain that to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u54	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u55	Well, I think the first question is a misunderstanding. The senator states here that the number of officials of the Ministry is quite insufficient to serve all pupils in such projects as evaluation, classification and promotion. I feel like... It's as if the senator hasn't been following the situation in our country. We know that in the case of middle school exams and 8th graders, a huge number of volunteers came forward, if you can call them that, were competent people, mainly retired teachers or teachers from other schools. So that here the number of officials... Officials perform only the role of persons organising this work, not those involved in the substantive activities. So it's an absolute misunderstanding. I understand that I explained this to the senator, although the senator is on the phone now, he doesn't listen to what I'm saying. However, it will be in the record, Mr. Senator, then I recommend it. And when it comes to judging, Mr. Marshal asks, it's quite simple. Well, promoting this is promoting to the next class, which means someone is promoted, or isn't, so 0:1, yes or no. The assessment takes place in different ways. We know that rankings are created in Western systems and someone is finishing school with first place, seventh place. In our tradition, however, there is this system of assessment... between two and five. These systems are changing, names are changing, but in general evaluation is related to the fact that we give an evaluation. It is an extremely valuable tool, not only educational but also educational. That's the way it's supposed to be. On the basis of which this assessment, classification and promotion is carried out, I answer the last question here. That's what I've been talking about. The documentation is kept up to date by teachers. The teachers even complained that she might be overdeveloped, but this documentation is and can be done on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u56	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u57	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The senator here was kind enough to appeal to one of the senators not to insult the Sejm and the Senate. What I'm trying to say is that I'm totally signing this appeal. Therefore, I would like to ask whether this procedure of proceeding over the bill is not an insult to the Sejm and the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u58	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u59	Mr. Senator, in the third stage of his admission to the M.E., the mayor, the president, or the collegial body, the county board, the voivodeship board. My question is, did you talk at the board meeting about why it wasn't the school curator who was supposed to decide? Well, we're talking stage three. About the first, the second, we know... But the third stage is where the greatest knowledge is required. Why isn't the education curator indicated here? Is this due to fear of the probation officer's responsibility? The probation officer has delegations, he's got staff ready for it. Why the bodies I was talking about, not the parole officer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u60	Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u61	This law recognises the scope of the... It covers only schools which are subject to the founding body of local self-government units. My question concerns other schools, those for which the founding authority is not a local authority and in which it may or may not be a local authority, is not performing the tasks and competences referred to in the Act. [[Thank you very much...]] Was that on the committee? Why was this omitted?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u63	I must say, Senator Borowski's question is very clever, it's perverse. Its advantage is that it draws attention to an important matter. I can reverse this question: isn't it an insult to the students that they're in this situation? Well, that's a question you can ask. And that's the only question I can answer with this suggestion or your thoughts on the senator. As for the next question, why not the probation officer, I have to say that I was thinking about it myself, and I also considered that it might be a probation officer. It could also be the bodies of the Central Examination Board. Right? It was decided that the local government. I think maybe it's because the local government is closest to the school, because they have some kind of relationship... Well, as it turns out, this is also a huge mandate of trust for these local governments. Right? That's all I can say. I think each of these three entities is just as good. I think the curator is a little further away from this environment, the local government is closer, and it's probably more effective, and more friendly. And when it comes to other schools, I have to say that we didn't talk about this at the committee meeting, and I would have to think more about my own opinion. But I do know that you senators don't like to make your own views, that there's only going to be what was at the committee meeting, and that wasn't on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u64	Everything's done, right? [[Yes.]] Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm going to start with that question you formulated, Senator Borowski. I would reverse this situation and say yes: I agree with you, so what these poor students are going to say if they can't take exams, eighth grade or senior, but I can also ask what the poor teachers are going to tell you when the government ignores them and doesn't want to negotiate. But I have another question: how are the collegial bodies supposed to behave? Because in the case of the district board and the voivodship board These are collegial bodies. How are they supposed to exercise these 3 powers which are imposed on them by a procedated law, if it turns out that at the board meeting, whether it's a county or a voivodship, there are even numbers of members, two will be in favour of classing a student with a five and two fours? What's it gonna look like then, who's gonna decide what's the classification? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u66	Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u67	I'd like to ask you one more time... Because you said in general that the basis for assessing the student is documentation. Tell me what documentation, if it's just a journal, if it's any more... I just don't work at school and I'd like to know what kind of This is documentation. That's the first question. The second question is this... Besides, I believe, and I am absolutely convinced that the student's assessment is based only on the documentation or evaluation log, in which the assessments from questions or tests are included, is not valid at all when it comes to the student, especially if the strike starts much earlier and is still anticipated... someone has been ill, I don't know, there are different kinds of situations... Tell me because here there's no way to appeal against it. What this mode will look like if, for example, Someone's gonna feel hurt. Is it going to be as it has been so far that this is going to be considered, some kind of pedagogical council... Well, how's that gonna be done? And second question, quickly. Tell me what happens when a strike... Because you want to protect yourselves from everything. What will happen if there is a strike and teachers simply lock themselves in buildings, the documentation will be in school and some honorable committee made up of a uncle and 3 secretaries will not have access to this documentation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u68	Thank you. Senator Mikołajczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As a multi-annual teacher and former school principal, I will answer you that the most important school document is the school statute, the internal school law file, and the intra-school assessment rules... [[Excuse me, I have...]] But I have a question... [[I asked...]] Yeah, but... [[But I'm sorry, I...]] [[But please don't...]] By the way, ma'am... [[Senator, don't interrupt.]] [[I have a question for the rapporteur...]] [[But, Senator...]] I also have a question for Senator Wind... [[Please don't interrupt and...]] But in the context of what you're asking... [[We don't speak until after the vote, it's the rules.]] Mr. Senator, I have a question: how many Senators of the Civic Platform were at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport? Because there's a lively interest now, but how many of them have come to the Science, Education and Sports Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, it's time for answers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u71	I must say, as far as the first question is concerned, I would ask the marshal to waive it because it has absolutely nothing to do with the bill under investigation. [[There isn't? If it doesn't have anything to do with the bill, don't answer it. I'm overruled.]] As for the second question, I apologize to the senator because I started laughing when you asked that question. The question was that if the collegial body has an even number of members, it is not able to identify this teacher who will judge. Mr. Senator, it's not in a position to say anything, according to your reasoning, so that this self-government should not function and function. So that question is... I'm sorry, I don't know what word to use so you don't feel offended, but it doesn't make sense... [[But this situation cannot be ruled out in life.]] Such situations happen thousands of times every day, and local governments deal with it. Let's not deal with problems that aren't true, and the problem you presented is not true. As far as documentation is concerned, I think that this question is more addressed to the Minister, and I would not want to answer it. Well, the question is, if the documentation is closed with the strikers... please, you can anticipate various forms of self-aggression towards your own country, but this is absurd. Are we getting to what? [[Mr. Senator, well, don't answer that question. Senator Borusewicz...]] How many senators were there... [[Oh, how many senators there were. I'm sorry.]] The question is very specific. At the committee meeting, 1 Senator of the Civic Platform was present, which led to the fact that a minority request could not be submitted, but that was no longer my concern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u73	Mr. Senator, does the classed teacher have to work at this school, or can he work at another school? And does he even have to work as a teacher? Or maybe. Retired, or are any other situations involved?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u74	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u75	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Admitting the voices that this way of proceding and at such a rate puts the Senate's good name in its subjectivity and dignity It's a separate issue for another conversation. I would like to ask you about the participation of representatives of local organisations in the work of the committee. Were they invited? And if so, what was the position of the local authorities in relation to this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u76	Thank you. There's no more calls. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u77	As for the first question, whether a teacher has to work in this school, I must say that I can only use the text of this law and that there are no such restrictions here. The definition of teacher is known, is in the bill, she strictly defines it. And I have to say that this has been very well checked on the occasion of middle school exams and examinations after eighth grade primary school, when many people applied and effective applications were only for those who had specific competences. It's the same here. It is clearly said that this is a teacher, and the definition of a teacher is based on the law. There are no other details here, whether it's this school or any other school, it's not here, and who's the teacher comes from the bill. With regard to the participation of representatives of the local government in the work, it is always possible for senators to come to each meeting of the committee. We don't normally announce it. The employees of the Senate Work Office are announcing it. There was a senator present, who is not a member of the study committee, so that there was an opportunity to participate, there were no restrictions. [[I was asking about the local government.]] [[Thank you very much...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I asked about local government officials, about representatives of local corporations, whether they were invited, whether they were present and what their position on the law, which concerns the powers of local government.]] Like I said... [[The senator replied...]] In the beginning, when I answered the questions, I said that it was customary for the committee to invite, and I mentioned what bodies of representatives it invited. These are the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, the Main Council of Science and Higher Education, the relevant ministries. As regards trade unions, local authorities, there is a message that such a meeting is held, and those institutions, whether local governments or local organisations, or trade unions, come forward and these applications are always considered positively. If there were an excessive number of reports, we would have had a problem with how to solve it, but so far there has been no such case.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u78	We'd be fine. The senator is asking a question. Senator Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please dispel my doubts. I don't think every teacher has the right to test. As far as local authorities are concerned, leading bodies, they have not yet been responsible for the examinations carried out. Therefore, I ask how the mayor may know which teacher is authorized or whether he is included in the list of examiners. So he's gonna have to run the whole procedure... I don't really get it. I don't think every teacher has the right to take an exam. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Everyone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u80	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u81	Maybe I'd start with that, Senator, that who would dispel your doubts if not Senator Wind, and I'll try to dispel them right away. However, the senator here has made a certain imposition of concepts which are vague. We are talking about evaluation, classification and promotion. There's no examination here. That's a different category. The senator is actually right to say that it's what other people do, but in a different way. This is not the mode envisaged for this amendment, but it is. And as to whether local governments are competent... Well, since their representatives sit in committees that decide on the position of director or teachers, that means that they have some degree of competence, they know what procedures should be followed, which documents should be given to the person, so to speak, identified, and on this basis they make decisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u82	Thank you. I don't see... There are reports. There you go. Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u83	Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[There you go.]] Senator Wind, I'd like you to dispel my doubts, too. I'll use this metaphor. [[I understand it's not the question I answered when you spoke on the phone.]] No, it wasn't. I'll be honest with you, it's not for that. Mr. Senator, I really do have a question for you. There's a probation officer in charge of schools. He asked that in a way, in a certain part, Mr. Senator Florek, my club friend. The host body, it is true, according to the law in Poland, are local government units, from the municipal one, through the district one, to the voivodship one. Why, then, do we have to carry out these complex and complex procedures in this difficult situation that we have today, for example, with regard to local government, or at all? I'm not telling you to move. Are we not involved in this process of education curators? Why is the legislator, which is also us, a question for you... Wasn't there a discussion at the committee meeting on this subject that in any way, for example, supervisory, I was thinking about this substantive value, involving the curators? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. Did the senator come forward to ask you a question? Yes? [[Yeah, because...]] First was the senator, then the senator. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u85	Yeah, 'cause not exactly, Professor, you solved my doubts. I mean, what else is the choice of the principal of the school, and what else is taking the exams, and that's... [[These aren't exams here...]] [[Exactly.]] ...or classification. [[Exactly.]] Tell me... Well, here the answer will also be the answer you will probably give to Senator Slugock. Why not curatoria? Why are you transferring this to local governments that have virtually nothing to do with this? At least that's what happened so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u86	It's a repeat of the question, Senator, exactly. You're welcome, Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u87	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Senator! It is known that this is a government bill. Were consultations carried out in accordance with the general principles? Was this law the subject of a joint committee meeting? Are these two basic issues... Because today we can't invite any trade unions or locals. At the stage of creation... I would like to stress that this is not a parliamentary project in which, on purpose... Well, these projects avoid such procedures, while government projects should always follow certain consultation procedures • I no longer speak inter-ministerial And, above all, go to the committee of the common government and the local government.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with the will of the questioners themselves, I will combine here, I understand, the answers to these two questions. I take it I'm gonna be harder to dispel my doubts. It's pretty simple. The curator exercises pedagogical supervision, and these activities, which we have been talking about here for more than an hour, i.e. the evaluation, classification and promotion of pupils, are in the domain of the school, the school whose authority is the local government. A breach of this balance here would be to the detriment of... The state itself began to take the next step, to talk about appeals, etc. So I think that here, of course, you need to be aware of that. This is the second time the senator's talked about testing. We know this isn't about testing, which is why I think this is a sufficient answer. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] On the other hand, the question of consultation, the joint committee... I must say yes, ladies and gentlemen. It's so easy to say here, Mr. Senator. But I don't know if the senator would stand in front of seniors in front of the fourth grade, and he'd say it. [[We're asking for specific procedures.]] Mr. Senator, we're in a particular situation. May 6th... [[Everything's legal.]] ...they're about to start high school. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, you are to function, you are to perform your duties. Would the senator repeat that question to the fourth grade? Of course, I can say that it is the Minister who will answer that question. [[But no, Mr. Senator, you're welcome...]] However, we cannot act in abstraction. The state is to serve specific people, in this case students, seniors. That's why we're needed, not to create some unnecessary fictional regulations. [[Procedures are not followed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u90	It's legal, Mr. Senator, very carefully... all procedures are followed. [[All of them?]] All of them, exactly all of them. There's an appropriate statutory mode. Well, you know that as a lawyer, so I'm not gonna explain it to you. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u91	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Not all of them... [[Senator Rybicki and then Senator Sługocki.]] It is not always the governing body of the local government. Some schools form churches, foundations. How will it be when the Church or foundation will have to designate a person to be replaced? I mean, that's what's gonna happen. How will this law resolve such issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u92	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u93	Thank you very much. I'll get back to your answer, Senator. Art. 73a paragraph. 3: in the case of running schools... I'm not gonna quote that. My question is this. In a normal situation, the curator completes pedagogical supervision of everything that is happening at school today. The question is whether, in this situation, in this regime which introduces this law, for example, the article I quote. 73a... what's the role of education curator in this trial? Is there any? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u94	Mr. Senator, I'm sitting here listening to the answers, and I've heard several times, Senator... [[But he didn't answer...]] He answered, Mr. Senator. [[That's not true.]] Mr. Senator, I'm lifting this question because it's repeated for the fifth time. [[No, I didn't. I didn't get an answer.]] Overruled. Don't answer that question, don't answer that question at all, as if it hadn't been asked, because it's been asked for the fifth time. You're welcome, Senator. [[So there's Senator Rybicki's question...]] [[Churches, foundations...]] Churches and foundations, yes, because this is a new topic. [[You asked an almost identical question...]] The probation officer has already been discussed. Mr. Senator, I'm repealing this question because I have the right. That's it, period. Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u95	Almost the same question was asked earlier by Senator Rulewski. I said we didn't talk about it, so it's hard for me to talk about it. I don't know, if the Minister can, he'll answer. We didn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u96	Yes, sir. You're welcome. [[I'm gonna ask that question to the Minister.]] Who else wants to ask a question? Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u97	Mr. Senator, an example. The uncle carries out with his services, the department's staff, the student classification department, giving him a sufficient grade... [[Voice from the room: Replace...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Why the Service?]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Okay, indirectly, right? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Indirectly, on behalf of the uncle, it's obvious. Do I have to be straight? I thought we were talking on a level here, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u98	I'm counting on it, too. [[But I'm sorry... and now...]] ...but I'm not always satisfied... [[And now...]] ...not always. [[I'm sorry about that. Sometimes I regret it, too, Mr. Marshal...]] Well, I'm very sorry, too. [[Excuse me...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u99	And now my question, Mr. Senator. Is the parole officer... The student is dissatisfied, writes the appeal e.g. To the parole officer. In this regime, in this legal order, does the curator have the right to take a stand and refer to the student's request or not, or is he deprived of any possibility of interference? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u100	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator. I'm not breaking the question. You can answer that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u101	Mr. Senator, we only deal with what the Sejm has decreed. It's not here... [[But can you...]] It's not here, it's the law, it's my name, it's my mother's law, it's this basic law, and there's nothing changing about it, which is what happened, just like... [[We're done here.]] I mean, it's a presumption, but I understand it's right to say that just as it's been in judgment so far, it's the same thing now, nothing changes here. In this respect, this law is nothing new It doesn't. [[Jasia, you slept through...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u102	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u103	I'd like to get back to the subject that I'm going to say was a little bit running, who's the teacher. And here was a suggestion, or at least in practice... that it could also be a retired pensioner. My question is whether he can perform this role on behalf of the body, as a result of the appointment by the director of the pension teacher, i.e. the person who has lost his professional competence, because that is the general definition for all pensioners. And how did you... [[Oh, you're not, Mr. Senator, you're not...]] But it's true. The pensioner is a man... [[I'm outraged that you're...]] Mr. Marshal, I'm in a relationship... [[Voice from the room: Retired speaking.]] Yeah, it's retired. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is a man who has lost his ability to perform his profession fully and efficiently. That's what retirement is for. [[That's not true.]] And will it be possible to... [[That's not true.]] For example, Mr. Marshal, when you're finally talking to me so nicely... [[Always.]] ...or a ninety-year-old, a teacher with health problems... [[94-year-old doctor's on standby, Mr. Senator.]] Yeah, yeah. Will he be able to be... [[Senators who are over 65 are retired...]] ...destined to perform these functions and will there not be complaints from persons who have been evaluated for this purpose?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u105	Mr. Marshal, this question is being asked for the third time. I have to say that... that was the question. [[I think it's even the fourth.]] We talked about the fact that this category of active teachers is defined by a law, that is precise. This was checked in the middle school exams and after the eighth grade that took place. So I've already answered that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u106	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator? Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to the meeting in the first place, Minister, Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Michał Dworczyk. Welcome very much. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk: If I may...]] Please, now is the time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the opportunity to make a short speech. Professor Wind has already said almost everything about this bill. I would just like to address the ladies and gentlemen of the senators with an appeal which stems from the particular situation in which we are all in. We can now discuss who did it, who did it, and who had the greatest impact on this situation today, but this is a discussion between us, politicians. The worst in this situation are the seniors and the parents of the seniors, because it has been them for the past few weeks that just didn't know whether the graduations would be held or not. We were very pleased to accept the declaration of the trade union headquarters which announced today the suspension of the strike. Teachers need to be thanked for the fact that they return to work in their sense of duty to their students. Let me just remind you that this strike is due to end or be suspended on April 27th in the morning, and the time for classification in accordance with the applicable rules is until tomorrow. So there's a problem here, too. However, regardless of how individual pedagogical councils respond to requests for classification, we cannot leave any question marks here. We need to prepare an emergency exit. The bill that the High House is debating is precisely such an emergency solution. We hope so. - No, I hope so. That this law will not be used at all. And hopefully we can say later that the Sejm and the Senate have been working 24 hours a day, but no one has benefited from the bill. I would like to see meetings of pedagogical councils held in all schools, which will carry out the classification. Except, ladies and gentlemen, there may be a situation in which in 1 school, 2 schools or 10 schools such classification boards will not be held and we will not adopt this law. What then? How will we then look into the eyes of those seniors who will not be able to take the maturity test? Therefore, I would ask you very much to put aside our political disputes and doubts, some less and some more justified, concerning both the content of the law and the procedure for proceeding. Well, the mode is actually extraordinary. He's legal, he's legal, but he's actually extraordinary. I ask you very much to put these doubts aside and that we together, regardless of political colors, adopt this law so that the seniors can go to sleep peacefully tonight, with the assurance that they will be able to take the maturity test on 6 May. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. Welcome back to Minister Maciej Kopcia of the Ministry of National Education. Would the Minister like to speak? Yes or no? Well, short notice: either yes or no. There's no other way. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: If necessary...]] [[There isn't.]] Minister, I'm asking if you want to speak or not. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: I can speak briefly.]] Then speak up. A decision has to be made.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I, of course, would like to thank the senators on behalf of the Minister of National Education for leaning on this important act, which is actually in the interest of seniors. This is undoubtedly a situation, as Minister Dworczyk said... On the one hand, we have a situation in which some teachers actually declare the end of the protest, but, on the other hand, in case the classification of pupils does not occur, this law offers the possibility to carry out such classification on Monday and Tuesday, or April 29 and 30. This is also, as Senator Prof. Wind said, only a certain addition to the rules that operate on the basis of 2 laws. One is the law of education, that is, the law that speaks about the authority of the school, and thus speaks among others. on the competence of the school principal and the faculty board. And it is supplemented so that if there was such a moment that there would be no resolution on classification, then in fact in an exceptional way the decision of the principal of the school would have taken place. At the same time, there is talk of a person who could be indicated. In this place, because there were voices like this... Here we are actually dealing with pedagogical supervision, which is actually three-step. So, in other words, we have the headmaster's supervision. What happens at school level is supervised by the principal then we have supervision of the curator, actually concerning the activities carried out by the school principal, and then we have the level of the Minister of Education who supervises the school curator. And now, looking at these regulations or rather at those doubts that were raised, it is worth noting that, in any case, under the applicable rules, it is so that when a school principal cannot exercise his function, it is exercised by the vice principal of the school, and if he could not do so, it would be by the appointed teacher. So, in other words, there's no revolution here, there's a recipe. And here we're talking about a normal situation: if the director were sick or for other reasons he couldn't do his job, then the school authority could just point to the person who does that job. The form of this indication is, of course, a matter of the decision of this authority. It was also mentioned here that we are dealing with various bodies that run schools, so this provision also applies, of course, to bodies other than self-government. Thus, under these provisions and simply in accordance with the statute or other way of functioning of the school authority, it would be decided how this other teacher would perform the activities normally undertaken by the school head. And the next point merely clarifies what happens when the governing body is a local government, in other words, it is indicated here that it is the executive body of the local government unit that will indicate the teacher who will perform certain activities. And that's just about it when it comes to local government. But there were voices here... Well, of course, there's no way the county board is debating students' grades. The task of the executive body is only to identify the person who, under the assumption of the number of cases that might have occurred, could have simply taken certain decisions. And by the way, given the laws of the law... Because we also have a second law here, a law on the education system, which concerns the classification of pupils. And that's why we say that these new rules apply to 2 laws. Of course, this classification is described there, and it also describes what happens in which case, i.e. When the classification of pupils occurs, what is the classification, what is the assessment, how is the evaluation of pupils... Individual provisions, that is, what is contained in the article. 44 Laws on the Education System, simply clarify this, i.e. there is a discussion of the evaluations, e.g. about which are classifications, which are final, etc. All procedures which are therefore to be followed are foreseen. And this bill under consideration and these provisions concern a certain exceptional case and do not touch those other elements which are described and in the article. 44 Act on the Education System, and in Art. 68.73 education law. That's why there's this anxiety about the broadcast that came out somewhere in the media... Because we're dealing with such a message that, I don't know, the county board would be involved in giving someone an evaluation. The regulations, as Professor Wind said, talk about how the teacher evaluates how the evaluation is carried out, etc. That's what you were talking about, Senator Mikołajczyk. We have school records, i.e. lesson log, grade sheet, we have an internal evaluation system and procedures that accompany it. We have a procedure that says that the student is informed of the proposed assessment. From this diagnosis we've made, it's practically 100%. schools where education ends in high school, such evaluations have been proposed to students. So there's no situation that a random person, no one knows how, would do the evaluation. So that all the dangers that the senators have been paying attention to aren't happening. It's just a supplement to a rule that's supposed to work in a special situation. In addition to Mr Dworczyk's request, I call for this document to be adopted, which is extremely important, because, as I said, it clarifies the rules on situations which could happen exceptionally. So one more time... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister, I suggest you stay at the podium because there will be questions. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to a government representative related to this item, and I will repeat: related to this item on the agenda. Because he is in the courtroom and Minister Michał Dworczyk and Minister, please ask the people asking questions to tell them who they are asking their questions to. Senator Rybicki is the first.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u111	Mr. Marshal, a question for Minister Kopcia. I gave it to Senator Wind earlier. It is not always the self-government that is the founding body, the entity that forms the school, it can also be foundations and churches. I would like to ask about the procedure in which the headmaster of the school, which is run by the Church, a foundation or a private entity, does not appoint a teacher who would substitute for a classification. Who's gonna do this in the case of self-government, we know. The mayor or the president. And what about those entities I mentioned, churches or foundations? Who's it gonna be? Bishop or some parish council? Who? This question is so important that in a few days, this law will enter into force, will be implemented and interpreted. No one other than the Minister should be able to interpret it right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u112	Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the following question. Ministers refer to the emergency situation which is currently taking place in Poland, and this is about the announcement of non-classifying pupils. I am convinced that such an emergency situation is taking place, but the provision that is designed in this law does not only apply to this emergency situation, but rather goes into the future. It will be a permanent part of the Education Act. Has it not been considered to introduce this only for this year, 2019, in which this emergency occurred and then to return to normal? Because the normal situation is that it's the pedagogical board that evaluates. I've been watching the situation for decades, and I don't think there's been an emergency like the one that is right now. In short, can we not limit ourselves to 2019? Is there really a need for this provision to be, so to speak, a permanent provision in these laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u114	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as a great teacher, you probably remember the strike in 1993, which you mentioned here just a moment ago, Senator Szymański. At that time, was there such extraordinarily laws that were being prepared by that authority? The Matura took place late, but it took place, there was no need for any laws, neither the government nor the parliament was involved. I agree with Senator Szymanski's question. As far as pensioners are concerned, the Act only applies for one year. Shouldn't this law, if it were to enter into force, be limited only to the problem that was de facto solved today? Don't you think that pushing this bill has become pointless? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u116	Thank you. Minister, I ask for your answers, and I will ask the senators, when they have finished their reply, who has a question for you, Minister Dworczyk? Because Minister Dworczyk must leave us and first Minister Dworczyk... In other words, please sign up for questions now with Minister Dworczyk. You're welcome. You're gonna write it down, please... [[I have a question for Minister Dworczyk.]] [[You can't sign up either.]] Well, you can sign up by raising your hand. Senator Borusewicz... You're welcome, Minister, to answer these three questions. Then there'll be another one for you...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, we have other bodies, their statutory bodies, because it's hard to imagine that such a school could function if it wasn't simply described how such problems are solved or, in other words, how the headmaster is called. The body of the institution, which is described in the statutes, will simply take such a decision and there is no doubt about it. If there are procedures for selecting a school principal, then of course the same procedures will be applied in this case. As far as the sustainability of this solution is concerned, you can actually imagine The Senator Wind, Senator rapporteur, spoke about this. The very different situations in which we will actually have to deal with the fact that the school principal will not be able, e.g. because of random, sick situations, such a function will be fulfilled and his deputy will not be able to do so, and such a deputy does not have to be appointed at all, it does not have to be the vice principal of the school. In other words, we might as well imagine the situation. ..and such situations are.. When you simply appoint another teacher. Senator Grodzki kind of mentioned my experience. I, of course, was the principal of the school in a situation where only the principal of the school was present, he did not have a substitute and simply appointed e.g. Me or another teacher to do that job. Believe me, at the beginning of the 13th Lo in Szczecin, I did this before I became vice principal of the school. Such opportunities are, of course, and such situations can happen. You might as well talk about assigning another person if you had to. Referring to 1993... only that there were other legal provisions then of course, there was a different degree and at the same time there were preliminary exams for universities. At the time, the government took a lot of action to actually carry out prom exams. If the senator had gone backwards, you would have seen that in Szczecin and the education curator and the education board. They've done a lot to get these exams done. It can be said that your successor to the Szczecin City Council, the head of the club, Paweł Bartnik such actions as a curator of education or, to be exact, the vice-curator of education is taking the exam in I LO in Szczecin. It could be said that this was the result of simply providing students with a high school degree and the possibility of applying to higher education institutions. Please note that we are now dealing with such a situation that the exams are external and at the same time they simply have a recruitment formula. So the eighth grade exam and the middle school exam just mean half the points needed to get to secondary school. In the case of Matura, it simply means recruiting for a university. So we have a completely different situation and it kind of obliges us to extraordinarily introduce this system. As to what was said, I would say that we were dealing with a situation when we really hoped that several times the so-called ones would appear. Last chance talks will lead to a gesture of goodwill, that is to say, a suspension of protest in this radical form, a strike. There was also a call for some teachers not associated with trade unions to have classification boards held. But, as you have noticed, this appeal was only partially supported. And of course there are cities like Lublin in which practically 100% such advice took place, but there are also cities in which we actually dealt with the situation that some of the protesters have delayed it. Of course, by carefully monitoring the situation, we are aware that a large part of the pedagogical councils was planned. 'Cause it's a school principal's job too. On April 24th. In other words, regardless of this, we assume that these advices still take place, whether they will be held yet, but as if we are not quite sure that on the one hand all strikers will listen to the president of the Polish Teachers Association... Well, once again, Mr. President, we thank you for calling. But there is also information in the media area that the second union headquarters, which started the protest, the Trade Union Forum, has doubts about this. All the more so shows the validity of this law and ensuring maximum comfort and safety for seniors, as Mr Dworczyk said. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Minister Michael Dworczyk because there will be questions for the Minister. You're welcome. The first question you ask is Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u119	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, because this is a political law, you are responsible for this law as a representative of the government. I'll ask you straight. The strike was legal, wasn't it? This was a collective dispute between trade unions and the government. So tell me, isn't this an attempt, because the strike was legal, like I said, breaking it down and, like, handing it over, assigning responsibility for it, breaking down or breaking that strike on the ladies, mayors, that is, government officials? Hence these questions about the liability of the curators, because now all responsibility for the implementation of this law, which is de facto after breaking this agreement or the trade union law and resolving collective disputes, in my opinion, as a former trade union activist... Therefore, you are now handing over responsibility to local governments. My question may sound quite drastic, but I will ask: what happens when the mayor, the mayor refuses to do this command, just doesn't authorize the teacher, will he solidarity with this group? Because that's okay, Minister. What then? [[Senator, it's been a minute.]] Do you have a solution, for example? Decrees, decrees?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u121	Minister, why should the appointment of a teacher for the type of activities envisaged by the law rest on the local government if the director does not carry out such activities and not on the curator who supervises the director from the substantive point of view? Isn't this an attempt to confuse local governments with teachers? That's the first question. And the second question is, why did the government only pass this law on to the court yesterday, even though the situation had been known much earlier? Why did the government put the Sejm and the Senate in front of an alternative that makes us a voting machine? In the Seym the discussion on this bill lasted 1 hour 45 minutes, here longer... [[Long time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u122	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Jan Rulewski. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u123	Minister, I'm a little out of a different barrel. During this battle, battles, the dignity of the teacher's profession was undoubtedly undermined. Numerous divisions have arisen. Not only teachers were insulted, but trade unions were insulted. Young people and parents were involved in the dispute. And I'm asking you and the government to ask if you're capable of taking your exams at a time when you need peace for those who pass these exams, but also for teachers... Don't you think the government should come up with a vote of trust in teachers? So that the prom process wasn't contaminated by conflict, but was calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u124	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm answering Senator Shark's question about whether it's an attempt to break up a strike, a dispute between teachers and mayors and uncles, or whether it won't be so that the mayor won't want to appoint a teacher. Senator, I hope this isn't the case because this is the second security. In the emergency situation for which this law has been drawn up, the possibility for the Director to carry out the classification is provided for. And this is the first fuse. We hope that all pedagogical councils will gather and carry out the classification. If that didn't happen, we have the first fuse. And if that first fuse didn't work, there's a second fuse, which means the mayor or the president. And now. Why do I hope this doesn't happen? Let us recall the situation from a dozen days ago when there were exams of eighth graders and middle school students. The directors didn't even strike in those schools where all the teachers took the strike, the directors did the exams because they were required by the laws in force. The volunteers came, the future people who were entitled to it, and the directors fulfilled their duty in accordance with the law to carry out the exams. And I think it's going to be very similar right now, or actually the same. Even if there's a bunch of teachers who won't be able to do the classification, the principal's the same as the eighth grade exam. I don't know if the middle school guy wants to break the law. He's just gonna run the classification. This is... And I don't see any crashing of the environment or putting a wedge in the environment here. Well, that's looking for a second bottom that isn't there. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz asked why the local government, not the probation officer. I think the answer to that question has already been answered. I can only add that the probation officer covers so many institutions that if there was a similar situation in more institutions... Well, it would just be physically impossible for one parole officer to do such work for so many institutions. It's much simpler in the commune. Why did the government only present this project yesterday? Mr. Marshal, I'll be perfectly honest with you. I really thought, until yesterday, that the situation where seniors are taken hostage is impossible. None of us in the government thought that teachers who had been preparing for high school exams for many years could say at some point: we apologize, but now we have to fight for ours. It is justified that, so to speak, waiting, the law gives teachers such an opportunity as any other professional group. But here's the thing: we're not gonna do a classification, so we're not gonna let you guys get high school. Well, no one considered this a possible situation because we believed that teachers would want to go back to their students they'd been preparing for high school for years. However, it turned out that there were teachers who decided to behave differently, and that was why we made such decisions at the last minute. Perhaps the marshal is right, perhaps you had to show less confidence and start. Prosecution of such a law earlier. Senator Rulewski asks if we are... talking about the fact that trust in teachers has been undermined. Well, there's... [[Dignity.]] Please? [[It's about dignity.]] Dignity, yes. Well, it's been challenged. Just the question of who did it. We can discuss here, although this is not the subject of today's debate, because we are talking about a specific law. Probably again we would have a different opinion about who contributed more to this: would the politicians of either side, their statements, their actions, their decisions, or the teachers who decided to take the students hostage? It's exciting. Let's not kid ourselves. It's really exciting. In many schools, parents of eighth graders, middle school students and seniors had very sharp speeches, and there were sharp confrontations. Like the senator said, my parents got involved. The question, however, is who led this to happen. Yes? We'd probably have a different opinion here. I don't want to open this discussion. I can only repeat what I said once: today, the most important thing is that we are sure that the seniors will be able to take the exam. I wonder what it would be like if some of you wanted to. This law has not been passed. How would you feel about May 6th, not May 6th, but tomorrow night, if some of the students weren't admitted to high school? What would have happened? You'd be like, "The PiS government is the one who's to blame." And that's it? Could you guys really just keep going? Well, I really can't believe you think that. Let's put this political argument aside right now... [[Exactly.]] ...and let's think about the kids or the young people who are supposed to go to high school on May 6. That's my appeal. [[You should've thought before.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Well, Mr. Marshal's right, you should've thought of that before, but no one thought. So what do we do now? In spite of the government, let's not let seniors get high this year? Mr. Marshal, how can you do that? [[I'm not saying anything about that.]] Oh, I'm sorry. I misinterpreted that statement. [[Is that it, Minister?]] Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u126	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, the bill is needed because, in such critical situations, the state cannot be powerless, it cannot be a paper state and it must be a state. The basic question, Minister, is this: are the procedures which are laid down in this law, this novel, closed? Well, let's assume that the organ leading the school at the last stage will not do its duty. Should it not be foreseen, however, that at the very end there is an authority that is dependent on the government, the curator, and he appoints a teacher to carry out duties that the relevant authorities, including the local government, did not perform in previous stages? As far as I'm concerned, I'd call it, conjecture, because of course it's just conjecture. - What's that? Because pedagogical councils in large cities, especially in those cities where presidents are people who did not hide their unwilling attitude to the government, spoke very hard and I do not know whether they would listen to the call or the request of the trade unions, in particular the president of the Broniar. And the question is, what then? Minister, shouldn't the procedure be supplemented by this final element, such a fuse?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u129	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm a little in the spirit of Senator Czerwinski's question... You yourself admitted that you were surprised by this situation and that you basically wrote this bill every day. Well, it's not the first time in this term. We've met with situations like this before. We also met with situations such as that after the bill was passed, a few days later we gathered again to improve something, because it turned out that there were some shortcomings due to the quick writing of the law. And now I'd like to ask you if you're sure that if we pass this bill here today, we're not going to go. Monday to make things better. So it doesn't turn out that this bill and its records are gonna be a bigger problem for seniors than a teacher's strike. I'm afraid so. This is the experience of this term. And I'd like you to assure me of that. And the other thing. Senator Czerwiński also points to some danger, and we know that most teachers have suspended the strike. Isn't it better just to put it down, work and see? The point is that this piece of legislation is really complete, and it's about why, as I understand it, you want to remedy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u131	Minister, because you have used many times in your statements Not only here, but also in the public ones. A concept that absolutely doesn't agree with this situation... You say the teachers have taken hostages. You're a historian, and you know who took the hostages. The Germans, the Nazis who occupied Poland, shot these hostages. [[Question, question.]] [[Mr. Marshal, question.]] [[But that wasn't a question.]] [[Question, please.]] So, do you think that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...is your use of this kind of concept justified? [[But that wasn't a question, Mr. Marshal.]] [[How wasn't it?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u132	Quiet, please. [[Mrs. Marshal, I have a formal motion...]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal, I have a formal motion to revoke... [[Not a report on the subject.]] [[Excuse me.]] ...the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u134	Thank you very much. I'm overruled because it's out of the question. And bringing to this discussion comparisons with the Nazi Germans is really inappropriate, Mr. Marshal. [[I'm not the one bringing in the hostages, I'm the one who's talking about the hostages.]] Mr. Marshal, you brought it in. [[...the Minister is talking about hostages.]] You brought it in. [[That's what the Minister said.]] You brought it in. You still connected it to the occupation, with the Nazi Germans... [[Because it's clear to me. I'm a historian and I know what the connotations are.]] Mr. Marshal, please be quiet. Minister, you're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please... Mr. Senator!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u135	Answering Senator Czerwinski's question about whether the procedures are closed... In our opinion, yes. We don't think there was any need for this extra fuse you're talking about. And we don't think there's any need for change in this construction anymore. In answer to Senator Libicki's question, are we not going to correct this bill, or can I guarantee it to you... Senator, as far as I can tell, we won't. But I don't have a gift. If you had told me to lay down a hand that would be cut off in a situation where there's gonna be something to change in this bill or take a different solution, I wouldn't put that hand down because I'm trying to work with these hands. And so... According to my knowledge and, of course, after discussions with the lawyers who worked on this project, and after consulting MEN, all care was kept, so that nothing should be changed, and this bill will achieve the goal that we have set, i.e. it will give the possibility of admission to this year's prom. Isn't it better to take it easy? Well, that's not better, because if it weren't for how many schools to be classified by the faculty tomorrow, we'd have a problem with how many schools, how many dozens, hundreds or thousands of seniors who will be suspended while their friends and colleagues start high school on May 6. Right? Chaos would get worse. That's all I can answer. If your marshal will allow it, I can answer to Marshal Borusewicz in one sentence. Well, Mr. Marshal, I've never made such comparisons, and I can't even think of them. There may also be an emotional hostage; you can use that word in really different contexts. I have never done such comparisons as you have given, and I think it is simply unfair to make such suggestions. [[It's not fair that you define...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u136	Mr. Marshal, I didn't give you the floor. [[Thank you very much. Minister, he's unworthy...]] Mr. Marshal... [[...the use of such terms.]] Mr. Marshal! I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u137	I, too, think that the Minister shouldn't talk about teachers in the language of hatred, hey... [[Senator, Senator...]] ...which we've been seeing lately. That's what I think. Now, let me get to the question. [[Mrs. Senator...]] Yes, Mrs. Marshal. Unfortunately, we watch a huge hat and speak such a language about teachers on TV... [[But what language, Senator?]] The kind of language that just... [[Exactly, please. Ask a question, this is not the time for comments, this is the time for questions. You're welcome. You have one minute to ask a question. There you go.]] That's the kind of language they take students hostage. And I'd like to ask you, Minister, this... Could you answer the question of why you do not want to communicate with teachers and meet their demands? It would make more sense than to invent such nonsense, in my opinion, laws that don't lead to anything and do nothing. Tell me... Actually, it's not a question for you, it's a question for Minister Zalewska, who didn't appear here today. Why didn't she influence the government so that instead of giving huge donations to public television, instead of giving huge money, e.g. For rich people on 500+, instead of giving... Did you ever wonder, by giving the police a raise, that maybe teachers should raise their salaries, too? I wanted to ask you that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u138	Senator, thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have not received an answer from Minister Kopcia, which is why I would like to ask you about... You mentioned in your application about security, that the Director is the first security, and if the Director did not take action under the law, then there is a local government. What about other founding bodies, such as churches or foundations? The statutes of these schools do not have to anticipate the situations we are seeing, not all of them provide for all possible options. What if the headmaster of the foundation school or the church school refuses to... [[Mr. Senator, I think you asked Minister Kopcie that question.]] But I didn't get an answer... [[Then maybe Minister Kopeć will answer that question again.]] ...so I'm asking Minister Dworczyk. And that's one question. I also have a second question. I can ask them now, and I can ask them in the next round. [[Please.]] It's a question about a hypothetical situation, but it's possible. Let's say the principal points out he's looking for a teacher from the school he runs, but all the teachers refuse to substitute, which is why he finds a teacher from outside this school. Can the director of such an establishment release personal files to an outside person, proprietary sensitive data, without being subject to a criminal offence in connection with the Personal Data Protection Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u141	I repeat my question, though modified, whether the government is willing to create an atmosphere of trust around these exams, given that during the exams it is different. Sometimes some people don't seem to feel touched by the fact that someone was on strike or not on strike, and there's really an expectation... Come on. The Directorates worked very hard. I think we need... If the government, the president's been making so many appeals, it could be the government. And to create an atmosphere of peace around these exams.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u142	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Senator Zdrojewska, without referring to this valuable language that you described the actions taken by the government, I will answer one question: why didn't we offer raises? Well, Senator, we've proposed an increase in teachers' salaries. These salaries would increase on average to the amount of PLN 8 000 100 assuming a salary increase from 18 to 24 hours. Let me remind you that the average salary in the European Union is 26 hours. We proposed to increase these salaries in a step-by-step manner. Unfortunately, the union headquarters weren't open to such a discussion. If Senator Rybicki asks about matters related to the school statute, what happens when the statute does not provide for different solutions It's a pretty big question. I can only say, Senator, one thing: the bill is a higher order document and this law is a binding document in all situations that we could imagine here and for the purpose of this discussion. [[But, Minister, the law does not impose an obligation on the parish council or the council of the foundation to do so, like the government, in such a way and not in any other way.]] And the principal... I understand that we can have such a theoretical discussion for a long time, but if the senator were to tell us how many schools run by convents, churches or foundations are on strike... [[We assume that the bill is complete and applies to every situation.]] And I assume, Mr. Senator, that it is our duty first and foremost to ensure that the students take their exams on May 6th. And to answer the question about the director, it is obvious that the director must act under the applicable law. If I could answer Senator Rulewski's question in one more sentence, I would say: yes, we want to rebuild, build a teacher's prestige and trust in the teacher. Teachers are a very important professional group. We don't have to find that out here in this room. One of the elements of the proposal or one of the ideas for calming down emotions and building these relationships is the invitation of Prime Minister Morawiecki addressed to teachers, to the trade union centers to meet at the round table, which will start tomorrow at 12.00. I hope that we will all be able to talk calmly and substantively about the next stage of education reform in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u145	Minister, I asked the same Senator rapporteur, but I did not get precise information. How do you understand the concept of evaluation? I think we have no doubt in this room, at least I have no doubt about what classification means, I have no doubt what promotion or promotion means. But judging is a very broad concept. Assessment means not only a semester evaluation or a final evaluation of a given subject, but it means assessing each student's work. And if you were to understand this concept of evaluation, it would just be a complete reversal of the educational system. Of course, when a teacher can't, in situations like this... But then either the principal or the teacher authorized by him has the right to interfere with the subject, so to speak, the status of the teacher. How do you understand the concept of judging?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u146	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u147	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, this bill is weirdly procedated because Minister Zalewska doesn't have one, and you're responsible for it. [[But there's the Deputy Minister. If there are questions for the Deputy Minister of Education, they can be asked in a moment.]] I can fit in a minute, Mrs. Marshal. [[There you go.]] I do not know if the Minister has pointed out that an outstanding teacher Mr Kopeć, remembering 1993, said that everything was on the parole officer's shoulders, otherwise our colleague, who at the end led to the fact that the Matura took place. Let me remind you that this year the rectors of universities have declared that the application can be delayed. They declared it, not yet knowing that the strike would be suspended. My question is concrete: why in the education system so hard not to say: Drastically the lords, the presidents, etc. were involved.? This law resembles a little bit of a vote of distrust to the curators, to the Ministry of Education, which clearly shows that it cannot deal with it within its system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u148	Thank you very much. Senator Grażyna Shark. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u149	Thank you very much. I fully support my colleague's voice. Minister, you mentioned a round table held tomorrow. Tell me if it's true that there will be a proposal for early retirement for teachers after 30 years of work, including after 20 years working on the board. [[Senator, this doesn't apply to this bill.]] I know, but... [[Let's stick to the subject.]] Or maybe the Minister would like to answer. That would be part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u150	Good. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u151	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna ask for a legal interpretation because we're talking about legal terms for the Director of the Legal Department. In a moment, after I've spoken, I'll ask for it. I will repeat once again to the High House that we can invent different theoretical structures for today's discussion. All I have to do is ask the senators to remember what the purpose of this bill is, and he's very simple. The aim is to ensure that seniors have 100 percent confidence that they will be able to start their maturity exams on 6 May. As for Senator Grodzki, who was polite to say that it looks strange, because I am presenting this bill to the High House, I kindly inform the senator. And I think that's in the documents that the State received. The Council of Ministers, not the Minister of National Education, submitted this bill to the Council of Ministers. In accordance with the applicable rules, the draft submitted by the President of the Council of Ministers shall be presented by the Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers. That's the secret. In 1993, it all looked different. You're absolutely right. Since then, the legal order in our country has changed so much that the use of such a calculator and saying it was possible then, and today it is impossible, it really is a certain abuse. Well, based on the fact that the rectors said that it might be possible to reschedule the deadline for filing documents, applying to universities, it's, I'd say, rather risky. I think that parents and seniors who plan to study would be uncomfortable, based on some vague, conditional announcements that they might be able to study. And Senator Shark asked if there would be a pension proposal. I have no idea. Surely such a proposal from the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, which prepares tomorrow's first round table, will not be. According to my knowledge, there will be no such proposals tomorrow, because tomorrow we will talk about completely different issues related to the planning of the schedule, subject matter and scope of discussion, division into thematic sub tables, etc., etc. I understand you're referring to the media information that has come up in the last few days. I don't know anything about that. That's what I'm saying when I look you in the eye.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u152	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for Minister Dworczyk? Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u153	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask you if, referring to what you just said, was there already such a situation that the proposal for an amendment to the law was submitted by the President of the Council of Ministers and not by the Ministry concerned. Have there been situations like this before, or is this the first situation in education? Thank you. [[Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk: Many times were...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u154	Thank you... [[Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk: Ah, excuse me.]] I just want to ask if anyone else has any questions. Senator Blackbay? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, this is a government presentation. Could we hear who is the author of this solution? Are you the Minister of Education or the Minister? [[Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk: Who, sorry...]] Who is the author of this presentation? Are you the Prime Minister personally? That's the first question. I'm asking because it's worth promoting good solutions. And second question. Is there a country in Europe that has similar solutions? I'm asking because I'm curious. Now that you've introduced this, you've probably been doing an analysis, an inquiry to see how they deal with these kinds of problems in other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u156	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question for Minister Dworczyk? If not, I'm closing this Question Time and... [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal...]] You're gonna be okay, aren't you? You're welcome, Senator Comfort. I understand that this will be the last question for Minister Dworczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u157	Minister, we have been fighting here in the Senate for a long time with these last-minute presentations. I don't know if the Minister knows that we don't even have a printout of the legal opinion of our Legal Office. Would you mind telling us what happened in order to do it a little bit earlier, so that it would go a little differently than it has been before, for example. The Supreme Court Act? The next one will most likely be tomorrow. Why could it not have been done with decent legislation for once?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u158	Thank you very much. That was the last question to Minister Dworczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Zdrojewska asked if it was the first such case or if it was different. There's been a lot of cases like this. I can tell you that for a year and a half, when I'm... They are, of course, not very common, because, as a rule, the President of the Council of Ministers has taken responsibility for a legislative project highlights the importance that the government attaches to a particular project. So it doesn't happen very often. In the last year and a half, when I am the head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, this is the second such case. The first was about the Prime Minister's initiative to amend the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. It wasn't the department minister who did it at the time, it was the Prime Minister who made the amendment, and I also presented the project. In previous terms it was similar, such cases have happened. As regards the question of Senator Czarnobaj and the concern for the proper glory of the author of this project, I can inform you that this project was created among experts, developed by the Prime Minister's firm in consultation with the Ministry of National Education, which has the greatest knowledge and competence in this field. [[Leszek Czarnobaj: Experts... But they've worked their asses off.]] [[But...]] I don't think such words should be in the High House, Senator. [[I'm saying your experts have worked hard.]] [[Mr. Senator, what's with the comments, really... what's with the comments?]] I'm answering the second part of your question. Is there such a solution in Europe? There are very different systems in Europe. I can give an example of Germany, where teachers are simply officials and are banned from conducting a strike, therefore there is simply no such solution. Senator Pociej asked for the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. I, at the committee meeting, heard the oral opinion of the Senate Legislative Bureau. Was she transferred to paper and distributed to you? Of course, I cannot answer that question. And as for the answer to the question, why do you receive this project at the moment... I think the senator just left because I already answered that question. In fact, until the last minute, the government thought that the situation where the strike would lead to the fact that some seniors wouldn't be able to take the maturity test... It's either a raise or we don't let the students get high. We couldn't believe it for a long time. Only at the last moment, when it turned out that reality was what we see today, we decided to prepare such a project. And that's why the extraordinary mode. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Are there any questions for Minister Kopcia? No, I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Mieczysław Augustyn will be the first to speak. I don't see your senator in the O.R. Senator Piotr Wach. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you, ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for your vote. I had a chance to observe today. ♪ and listen to me ♪ A discussion on this law in the Sejm. What was shocking to me was the duration, the duration of 3 readings between 1:30 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. when the vote took place. During that time, 3 readings were held, without referring the bill to the committee at any stage, and the discussion was actually limited to club speeches after the first reading of 5 minutes and after the second reading of 3 minutes. With us it is better, as you can see, because as far as time frames are concerned, they are outlined in the Senate Rules of Procedure. At least it is better in this respect, but there is no illusion that here the substantive discussion can only have a warning meaning about the future. The situation I'm describing has been caused by this is not a discovery. The strike of teachers, which has already been 17 days, but is suspended today. This teacher strike has two main reasons. In the foreground, we see wage matters, which are not necessarily the most important, but certainly very important, very media and visible. The second reason In my opinion, also very important is the so-called. reform of the education system, which started 3 years ago, but its first negative clear effects occur now, among others since September, when there is a accumulation of yearbooks, but also changes, organizational changes, very difficult for self-government and difficult for teachers, and programme changes. It all consists of a strike, a strike conducted with great determination, but also with some remorse among teachers, what we could observe. As for this strike, it is the fault that it has not been completed, that it is on the government's side and on Parliament's side. It's our fault too. The government, it seems, did not want to deal with this matter properly, but we adopted, or actually the majority of the Senate adopted, despite warnings, solutions which were clearly going this way. As far as wage demands are concerned, let me remind you, in January this year, as we adopted the budget, we have tabled an amendment on the transfer of PLN 10 billion, including money to raise salaries for teachers. This has actually been ignored, as have the various comments that we make. We have said this very clearly, also under the influence of the demands of teachers, their certain determination, which was already visible at that time. As far as substantive matters are concerned, they actually started three years ago... both at our committee's meeting. I think about the Committee on Science, Education and Sports As in plenary, as in many colleagues here, I have drawn attention to the difficulties, errors and such wrongs of this new education system, after the changes. Minister Zalewska with a copper head answered that everything would be fine, that it was foreseen that it would be okay... And now she's just gone. She's not here at all, and she didn't even say anything in the Seym. It is in that sense the government's fault that he forced this reform by not listening to anyone. Now the consequences are different. In order to brighten up the situation, it is a proposal to organize a "morrow" this round table will begin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a travesty. A rather radical correction has been introduced or a change in the educational system, without hearing any opinions, and when it starts to enter into force and bring bad fruit, a general discussion is to take place on this subject. That's putting a case on your head, that's admitting mistakes. And that is actually condemning the Minister of Education and its actions, very clear. Now, substantively, as far as this bill is concerned. These will be words in fact only for a reminder and ad acta, because she will probably be accepted without amendments, because that was the purpose, and that was the procedure in the Seym. I think most people will do the same thing here. This law introduces the substantive degradation of the teacher's work by the fact that the collegial procedure, actually quite complicated, if necessary, will be replaced by a very simple procedure, namely the classification carried out even by a single teacher of any specialty. I'll repeat: any specialty. In extreme cases it can be a wuefist, catechist, teacher of the basic course of teaching. It's just substantively denying the job... I am not surprised that the Polish Teachers' Union, not wanting to degrade the nominal significance of the advice, has resigned from the strike at this moment. And he did the right thing. I consider this to be a great negative element of this bill. I think that's the worst part of this bill. I don't think anybody here has ever noticed it. That she's permanent. If there's anything I can agree on, it's just an article. 4, which concerns the school year 2018/2019 and extends deadlines. There's a way to discuss this, it makes sense. Everyone else is permanent... Mr. Chairman of our committee, Mr. Senator Wind, said it was a good solution, because it fills the gap in the system. I'll say it's a terrible solution. This is a permanent anti-strike solution. Ladies and gentlemen, such a solution that if something goes wrong, then someone can do it through the nomination of the school director, and if the local government does, is generally an anti-strike solution. It has, so to speak, to bind teachers to a large extent forever, and this cannot be agreed with. This law is simply unacceptable, and I therefore request that it be rejected. I made this request at the committee meeting, but unfortunately I was alone and there was no minority request. This means that the committee will have to reconvene. I believe that this bill with such flaws In particular, since it is of a permanent nature, it has not been consulted and has an anti-strike blade It should not be accepted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u162	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! A few days ago, with a large group of several hundred teachers, students and parents, we gathered in Pila in the Constitutional Square of May 3 with Stashic sitting there, he was reminded of his words: "Such things will be common as their youth hide. Those were words often repeated by him... [[It was Zamoyski.]] Probably the words of Jan Zamoyski, but popularized by this great pilanin. We should consider today's law in a very serious way, because the level of education, the successes and failures of young people and adults are largely related to the work of teachers, the quality of education. Therefore, today, when we are to build a knowledge-based society, the teaching state should be elevated as high as possible in its authority, in its skills, in its social position, in its earnings. Yes, that would be wise, good, perhaps the most important investment for the future of the Republic. Meanwhile, what you have proposed and what has led, in my opinion, to these concerns and as a result to strikes, is the dismantling of Even those firstfruits, the good moves that we've been able to bring in before. You will not, to any extent, shift responsibility for what is happening now to anyone else. You have to take it on yourselves. The responsibility for these double yearbooks, for this programme mess, for eliminating junior high schools, which cost years of teacher work and huge sums, millions of zlotys from local governments, cost us all. Responsibility for delaying the start of our children in education for most countries not by a year, but by 2 by 3 years, for hindering the teaching of children with disabilities in schools, putting local governments at a completely pointless multimillion-dollar cost. The best Belphers write to the Minister that the reform was implemented without any scientific basis, without piloting, in spite of global trends in education. There's a strike in this environment. It's not in the interest of teachers, it's in the interest of education, it's in the interest of all of us, because it can't be that there's further pauperisation of the teaching state. We are facing huge human resources challenges in education. This strike tells us there won't be a good school without a good, well-paid, respected teacher. This is a strike. It's not just about money, it's not really about money. This is a strike for dignity. I must say that what we read, what we hear from the ruling camp, from the environment of Law and Justice, strikes the authority of teachers. Very often it is based on lying data, which is why teachers take it as a blow to their dignity. This law is part of these actions, actions that are sometimes provoked, sometimes appearances of action, such as this round table, which, after all, denies that everything has worked out and is super, and supposedly has nothing to debate. The law allows the teaching board to skip the voice in specific situations, to skip the teacher's voice, and in this sense it also confuses their competences. Was there any other way? Did it have to be this way if you had known for so long as you were in charge, what was coming, when it was coming, when it was coming? And nothing has been done at that time, no positive movement has been made, and what has been proposed, these increases, which are said so much, are symbolic, and you seem to be aware of that. So instead of heating up this argument with more pseudoproposals, you could and should have listened to us when we were here in the budget debate asking for extra money for teachers' salaries. That's what Senator Wach was talking about. That would be enough money to meet the demands of the teachers. To conclude, I would like to say in favour of the pastors of the year, a dozen or so of the best teachers of the Republic of Poland since the beginning of this century: you have withdrawn Polish education by 30 years. Minister Zalewska's educational policy led to unprecedented chaos in schools and a nationwide strike of teachers. These are not my words, these are the words of the best teachers of the Republic of Poland. You are responsible for this situation in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u164	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is being prosecuted at an extraordinary rate, the whole, from the beginning to the signing of the President's probably a maximum of 48 hours. The law would create another mess in the legal system, in the education system. Luckily, she won't have any practical meaning anymore. The fact that the M.A.'s are at the beginning of May, everyone's known for years. I remind you of when the protests began. Now, suddenly, according to the amendment of the law on admission to the Matura, it would be decided not by the collegial body, which is the pedagogical board, but by the head of the school, the president of the city, the mayor, the mayor, the county board or the voivodeship board, the authorities running the schools. How would they do that in 48 hours for dozens of students? It's a mystery how to do it. Why didn't you want to burden the education parole officer with this? It's a state administration. You're afraid of responsibility. And yet, you have equipped the school curator with additional competences, and the curator also has delegations, employees. Then why did you...? You're starting a very dangerous game, a fool's method. I'll explain why. The right to strike is a fundamental right of employment. It is the government that is responsible for the persistent strike of teachers. There was plenty of time to talk, to compromise. You've been changing the system for three years, you've been putting in these best methods, as you said, and now you want to talk about changing the system at the stadium at the round table. You've been growing up for a long time, you've needed a few years to do that. At the stadium at the football game there are lots of sides of the field, but there are no parents' representatives who are to take part in such a meeting. It's just a circus! [[Applause]] There are no good decisions today. You should've talked and let that happen. Already today it is easy to predict what will happen at the beginning of September this year. You have abolished the social dialogue committees, mainly through the trade union of the Social Dialogue Council (Solidarity) and introduced the Social Dialogue Council. So? It's a facade, it's a fake conversation, it's a conversation breaker. And it was supposed to be so beautiful. You changed one word and everything was about to change! You insult teachers, parents, and students. You're in a constantly sophisticated election campaign. In the way you play dumb, you can bluff. The card game on the fool comes from Russia. The loser gets the title dumbass. But you can't make fools of teachers, parents, students. That's not what he's gonna do. Teachers can't lose because then they'd lose the future, they'd lose our kids. There's no school without kids, there's no school without teachers. You quoted OECD data, how many hours the teachers work, you talked about these 2 card hours, and you could add money to it. But you're not talking about what the OECD's salary looks like. Well, we're third from the end! Consider that. But you're not talking about it. And now the quotes. Andrzej Duda in the 2015 presidential campaign about the President of Komorowski: You were the party president. You signed everything the Platform wanted you to sign. The president of the government notary? I say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The President should be an arbiter on the political stage, that is to say, he should be divided. I will build a community of Poles. I'll be president of dialogue and agreement... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Gentlemen! Gentlemen!]] Would you sign your name, Mr. President, under those words today? We'll see what you do, Mr. President, tomorrow. And one more quote at the end. Minister of Education Anna Zalewska: For the first time in history we want to talk to Poles, we want to listen to Poles. Prime Minister Beata Szydło, Television "While asked about changes in schools," she said: "If this is what we expect, we will ask Poles if they want such changes." She added that neither she nor her ministers were afraid to ask the citizens. People have the right to speak on matters that are important to themselves. Education is such an important issue, because it affects practically everyone. Prime Minister Beata Szydło in TVP Info: The request for a referendum on education was too late. The reform has already been implemented. Member of Stanisław Pieta on striking teachers in March 2017: I would throw out this red... Maybe I won't quote it anymore, too bad for words, I won't say it again. Question is, when will you stop lying? When will you stop humiliating the teachers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u166	You're welcome, Senator Bogdan Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This part of the room is filled, this part is empty. This part isn't afraid to talk about the bill we're working on, this part is ashamed. And I have no doubt that this bill and the way in which it is carried out are the subject of shame. You're ashamed of her now and you'll be more ashamed of her in the future. There is no such mode in the Seym legislation as the one that was applied today. In an hour and 30 minutes, all the readings of the Act were carried out, which is systemic, not accidental, but systemic, which changes the system of Polish education. I don't find another word to describe this mode as ad hoc. This is simply ad hoc mode, which is not in the Rules of Procedure, nor the Seym, nor the Senate. Moreover, in this ad hoc mode the roles were set up earlier, except for the Seym, except for the Senate. Because we have learned from the screen in KPRM that on 24 April the bill will be adopted by the Council of Ministers, 25 by the Sejm and by the Senate, 26 by the President will sign this project and 27 will enter into force. Well, actually, it's all been known before. Is this legislation or cabaret? What role in our country's system Excuse me, Mr. and Mrs. PiS. The full Sejm and the full Senate? Is our Senate from making law or is our Senate from pinning law? Are senators representing voters and representing the whole country, or are they voting machines? You bring the Senate and us, senators, to the role of vending machines in making laws that are written outside the Seym and outside the Senate. I can't tell you that you're also bringing the president into the role of a pen. [[I'm on my own.]] [[Exactly.]] I fear that this law can radically change the Polish education system. Because we all know what the word "classification" means, we all know what "promotion" means, but also intuitively sense that the third concept contained in this law, or assessment, can apply to everything, that is to say, any assessment, in any situation by which the teacher will describe the state of preparation of the student. Thus, the director or other teacher authorised by him will be able to interfere in the teaching process and in assessing the progress of the students. I say this as the father of a boy who is now in fifth grade primary school and who regularly, day by day, either responds to the board, either writes cards or finally bigger grades. Well, it may be that this provision of the Act will apply to such minor situations, not to the overall assessment of the progress of the student in a given school year. Well, it's called classification. Yeah, it's called classification. What is going on outside this law and what this law is growing out of is a big campaign against Polish teachers. This is a great campaign in which both the forces that are actually convinced that the deformity of Polish education initiated by the PiS government is the right direction, as well as those who are paid, paid players on the social media stage. There haven't been so many forms of contempt that have happened to teachers in recent years, I don't think there's ever been one in recent years. So many bad words have been said about this respected profession, I've never heard it before. So many bad emotions, how many were caused around teachers I will say this in a moment, not only for improving my material conditions, but also for defending my prestige, the prestige of the teaching profession, I have never met before. And the question you have to ask yourself is, who's the teacher in the future? Do we want the teacher to be a professor of Pimka from.Ferdidurke, Gombrowicz, such an authoritarian teacher who tells his students to memorize that Slovak was a great poet, or is the teacher to be an autonomous man who shares knowledge and skills with his students, treating them subjectively? I think you want to turn Polish teachers into officers, state officials, because with such officers, with such authoritarian personalities as Professor Pimko, is your authority just along the way. If the hosts of such officers replace teachers who want to raise a conscious citizen, we will not have conscious citizens, citizens who are aware of their rights and their responsibilities in their homeland, but we will have such Jozias Once again, I appeal to Ferdydurake Gombrowicz Who are not yet fully mature, and therefore can be persuaded to do anything. And if they were to rebel a little bit, I might let Gombrowicz be quoted as a top-up. I am afraid that this Gombrowicz's scene taken from the Ferdidurke is your ideal, that this whole degrengolada that you introduced in the education system in Poland is coming to this end, and that this law is part of the wrong change that we have been following, which we have spoken about and in connection with which we have reported over 900 000 signatures that have been thrown out in the trash at the time when we were calling for a referendum. I am also afraid that if this law is adopted in such a form, it will be a tool for influencing the Polish school and teachers, so as to make teachers officers and students It's immature, it's easy to drive people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u168	Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd be lying if I said I was surprised at the way I've been proceding, which I've been watching again in the Senate and in the Seym. In the Seym, it took 1 hour 30 minutes, maybe 1 hour 45 minutes to work on this bill. What happens in these 2 chambers, bringing these chambers and us, senators, to people who accept everything that the government majority brings, raises my biggest opposition. There was not yet such a situation that we, in fact, half a day before the Senate's meeting, would find out that the Senate was about to come together, and that was on an important point, and in a moment's time a bill is being added, another bill of government, because this is going to happen, the eighth law amending the Supreme Court Act. I understand that the situation in education is extraordinary because there was no strike in education as it is now. Regardless of the fact that he will be suspended soon, he is taking longer than any other strike. It's not 17 days, it's 18 days, 19 days, it's 20 days from now. And it's not like you're trying to suggest that responsibility for this strike falls on teachers. There are two pages in this conflict. A party that has more opportunities and more strength is always a government side. But if the rule is that it's best to wait it out and then it turns out that this waiting out is impossible, then we have the laws that we're looking at today. In this strike, the government has applied all possible anti-strike standards, all: firstly, to wait out; secondly, to ignore, if you cannot wait out, to ignore; thirdly, to break down. After all, the agreement with one relationship was an agreement. Only with one relationship, and speaking to join this agreement for most strikers was an attempt to divide and break up. And it is with great regret that this scab turned out to be my relationship, Solidarity. This will have serious consequences for this relationship, and for the teacher's solidarity already has consequences and many of the teacher's solidarity sees it. The language that then began to apply to these strikers is unacceptable. If it's said that the teachers on strike have taken hostages, then... Who's the hostage? What are the reminiscences? It is not from ancient Rome that there are reminiscences, but from the most terrible period. And I can hear, and I've heard that kind of phrase today. The hostages were taken and shot during the Nazi occupation. When you use that phrase... These are not expressions that create an atmosphere of agreement and agreement. For agreement and agreement, there must be good will of both sides. If there is no good will, there is nothing to do with a round table, perhaps just that this piece of furniture becomes a positive piece of furniture. But it cannot be approached when the other party is disrespectful and insulted. Even the greatest enemy, if you want to talk to him, negotiate, you can't treat and attack him like that. But it turns out to be ineffective. Such statements, such attacks, such a combination of concepts or the imposition on this strike of concepts, which are definitely negative, prove ineffective. CBOS has done some research. Because parents support this strike by 10 percentage points more than the general public. There's 44% behind that strike. of the general public, and against the'36%', followed by the '50%' strike. parents and against 34%. This shows that those who are in contact with this strike and who are trying to impose on teachers are aware of this mechanism and are aware of this mechanism and are not inclined, do not give in to this propaganda campaign that we have witnessed and witnessed. And now there's this bill. It was supposed to be an incident bill. These exceptional regulations turn out to be constant regulations entered in the Laws on Education. What's going on here? This law, if the intention of the legislator, the designer is pure, should apply until 1 September of this year, until the end of the school year, this school year, and it is entered permanently. She takes away the most important competences from the pedagogical councils, because the assessment, classification and promotion of pupils are the most important competences of the pedagogical councils. If it's taken away from them, these pedagogical counsels don't make sense. What are they gonna do? Gather around for coffee and tea, eat cookies? She introduces a mechanism in which the principal points out the teacher It's probably with his permission, although it's not in the bill. And if the director doesn't tell, the local government does... That's how you try to conflict with those strikers... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...with local governments. Why can't a parole officer oversee the director? I didn't hear a clear answer to that question. And there's another thing about it. The teacher you're supposed to be teaching... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...doesn't have to be a school teacher, maybe from another school. He could also be retired. If so... what qualifications does a student have to evaluate a student who doesn't know these students? Well, it's something that doesn't fit in your head. I didn't have much in my head at the beginning of this term, but now... As a result, anything is possible. I'll make two adjustments. The first concerns the transfer of authority to indicate the teacher if the director does not do so to the curator. The parole officer doesn't have to do this alone, he's got a whole camera. The second amendment, which is more fundamental, provides that this law may apply only until 1 September of this year, i.e. until the end of this school year. She has no right to be a permanent element... [[Mr. Marshal, three minutes...]] ...the education system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u170	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, the strange thing is that the committee's rapporteur, the only one who has gathered on this issue, is not interested in the debate. Indeed, as was mentioned here a moment ago, he spoke about this, among other things. Mr. Senator Klich This route was established earlier, in advance. So that we're doing something that everybody knows about. The idea has been announced and, as I say, the daily route has been established. [[It's politics.]] No, politics is about discussion, politics is about listening to people. And that's why, for a reason, I asked you to refer the bill to the committee. The point was to listen to local government officials who are burdened with... I want the parole officer to wash his hands, and I want the local authorities to be responsible. Here's what I'm gonna say. Self-governments save this unfortunate education in the release of the PiS, because local governments are responsible. Not only do they transfer large amounts of money from their own funds, except subsidies. Like I said, they're responsible because they know what the value of science and the value of education is. And if that's the case, see... We have here obvious contradictions in the statements of both the absent rapporteur... [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] ...as well as Minister Dworczyk and Minister Kopcia here. Because Minister Kopeć and the chairman of the committee have tried to show that until now there have been legal gaps, that mechanisms need to be put in place permanently, which should actually exist a long time ago, because it's the system that's blowing up... I asked: were there petitions, were there previously such problems with collegial bodies, what are pedagogical councils? How many cases were there? No one answered those questions. But it's extremely honest. Of course, contrary to these justifications, there is a gap, that it should be permanent, said Minister Dworczyk. And he showed himself to be genuine, not pretended, because he said: the bill is an emergency and it is good that it does not function at all. So this isn't about the gap, because he was making this bill, he's responsible. Let's not pretend it's supposed to apply. As Senator Wach said, this is an anti-strike bill, a permanent law that strikes, among other things. In the principles of collegiality and introduces a prescriptive element for the local government, while in the sense of responsibility... Because there was a lot of scaring. After all, it was clear from the government's attitude that there would be no agreement. It wasn't a surprise. External observers saw, employers, not involved in conflict, that this is just provocation and addition of oil to the fire. It was all known before. So? They were scared that there would be no eighth grade and middle school exams. And it happened, didn't it? No bill. In the sense of responsibility, also of local authorities, but without a warrant, on their own initiative, because they know that the fate of children and young people is very important. And the same thing would have happened in high school. This bill is absolutely not necessary, and if, indeed, it is as an incident, as you said here, Marshal Borusewicz, making the right amendment. Why should she change the system? Why should it change the system? So, ladies and gentlemen, let's think seriously about what we're doing, what form we're doing. That's what we do when it's evaluated outside. We were proud to say the reflection, the reflection... Yeah, not mindless noding and making us voting machines. It really doesn't suit us, and we say it repeatedly. It's cynical to say that anybody can come to the committee meeting, and actually why the local government or the union didn't come... Well, I'm sorry, but even some senators didn't make it to the committee meeting. I would stress: committee. Why? 'Cause it's been a couple of hours. No invitation, no prior notice that there will be a Senate meeting at all. It wasn't known at all which committees, what time the Sejm... And that's what they say is that there's a preserved right of local government officials to participate... to be heard? Well, that's just cynicism. There can't be acceptance here. There's no respect for people, there's no respect for the environment, there's purely craftsmanship, political play. Unfortunately, I have to say this with great regret, because, as I said, as senators, we were used to normal, serious work. We're not afraid of work. Our job is just, like I said, listening. There was no consultation here, there were no opinions, even for a short time. To at least invite and ask what they think. representatives of the Association of Polish Cities or the Union of counties, so that at least for the heat they say how they evaluate it. Perhaps then it would be thought that maybe there should be a probation officer here. Well, it wasn't a chance. [[Maybe they were happy.]] Well, in this way, ladies and gentlemen, there is no law in the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u172	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Education, health protection, protection of our security and justice These are the pillars of a modern state. From this tribune I want to thank the multitude of teachers for claiming the role of education in a modern country, fighting for their dignity, but even more fighting for the future of this nation, for the future of our children and grandchildren. I bow to you and express my deep gratitude. [[Applause]] Now it's a little doctorly. The illness, which exploded in the form of a strike of thousands or tens of thousands of teachers, began three years ago by disregarding more than 900 000 signatures, now lying somewhere in the Seym Magazines, the signatures of citizens wanting a referendum on the shape of education reform. All runways were used I don't want to quote any more, and Senator Florek also mentioned it. I don't want this referendum to be held. It was the beginning of the end of this deformity. We've warned you many times, we've said this on many occasions... Everything was supposed to be great, everything was prepared, everything was well thought out, and now the Prime Minister says: in fact, it didn't all work out, let's call a round table. This reminds me of the PZPR times when it was said: if there's nothing to collect in the fields, we'll collect the V plenum. Now that there's nothing left to do with this educational disaster, let's call a round table. What did you do for three years when warnings came in from all sides that it wasn't working? Now we have fruit in the form of a quick bill that says that a teacher doesn't even have to work at school, doesn't have to be included in the list of examiners so that he can fulfill the tasks of other teachers. So if the doctors strike, you're gonna have to make an amendment saying that if all the surgeons in the hospital are in danger, the principal can appoint internists to operate on brains, hearts or lungs? Well, you should be aware of the absurdity of these kinds of solutions. This is an extremely harmful solution. I don't want to bring back what was sort of on the way, but I want to claim the fate of the disabled, whose strike has also been patronized in a disgraceful way here in the Seym. What happened to the disabled students? They were sentenced by the hypocritical regulations of August 2017 to two, of 9 and 28 August, which were supposed to be good, just like all that Minister Zalewska is preparing, and sentenced 20,000 students to house ghettos, to cut social ties, to isolate from their colleagues, with permission to come to school only for appeals and patriotic ceremonies. A more disgraceful regulation, I think, which the resort has spent! These are the results. The importance of pedagogical advice is borne out by a story that I can tell because I have been granted permission to do so. In 1968, in the time of the deep Polish Republic, when the director washed his hands, the pedagogical board gave a promotion to the student who was in prison for his political views at the time. That was the role of the pedagogical council! It took a lot more courage than it did now. This young man is now in this room, but if it weren't for the courage of the teachers of that time, his fate would probably have been completely different. The teacher's ethos, the teacher's mission are matters without which the modern state cannot exist in the long term. And that is why I ask you to reject this law, or else as Senate we will sign up for the dismantling of the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u174	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation is still unique. The State who took the floor first in a long session of questions, and then in a debate, contradicts itself, because first they say that nothing has to be done, and then they wonder what will happen if the governor does not want to implement this law. Yeah, something's not right. The special situation isn't over. Just a few days ago, the strike leader threatened that there would be no promotion, then apologized, and then it turned out that the promotion was not to be, and today it was said that we were no longer in danger. But at the same time you are wondering what will happen if this law had to be applied, but the director or the governor or the parish council would not do what is prescribed by the provision of this law. With a smile, some ask: What if she doesn't want to? Or: whether she has to gather and so on.? You can hear the laughter. You can see the laughter. I mean, it's a general joy that there's a problem. Oh, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is terrible. Nearly 300,000 kids They are often formally grown-ups, but they are also our children and grandchildren who die of fear of graduation. Each of us remembers what it was like. And then there's this terrible uncertainty about what's going to happen to them in the first place. We adults need to respond to this situation, we need to stop it. That's all this bill's about. She's extremely simple. In the case of this law, we do not think about the problems of the Polish school, about the problem of ethos of teachers, about the problem of teachers' salaries, about various other things. This isn't the place, this isn't the time. Well, that's something to discuss. It is not true that if some reform changes have been introduced, there is no longer a future to be discussed. After all, we do not break the law in stone and there are still some things that can be corrected. It was, it is, and it will, and there is no doubt about it. But I didn't want to talk about it at all today. If you've had some kind of apotheosis of middle school here, I have to say that as a father to a bunch of children who have experienced this reform, I have a slightly different opinion. But I'm not gonna talk about it anymore because it's not the topic of today's discussion. Today, it's just a matter of saving these kids. We have to do this in a very simple way. Of course, the suspension of the strike allows us to hope that there will be no bad will. Well, the state was talking about this bad will, on the one hand, convincing that there is no longer a case that everything is being swept away, that it would be okay, and on the other hand wondering what it would be like if someone there did not want to do what is written here. Speaking of this, an uncle who will not do as part of the protest of what is written in the provisions of this law, the state simply announced the violation of the law. There's no legal strike here anymore, no form of protest that's admissible. You're just announcing breaking the law. Well, if anyone comes here, in this room, something like that to think of, then I'm all the more convinced that this law should be supported in the version in which it provides for further degrees of solving various problems that can occur, even theoretically. A lot of great lawyers were talking about this solution, looking for a hole in the whole thing. There was a lot of time, and some people like to quote these different legal pairs. I found this: dolus non praesumitur, evil intent does not presume. I hope that in the case of this law you can count at least enough that both teachers, school heads and self-government authorities, as well as non-governmental bodies responsible for schools, will not show bad will. Not only in the implementation of this law, but in general, especially in the near future, when this matter will affect our children. I hope you can count on it. I think if we appeal to a certain ethos of caring for our children, it would be a real prospect. But to protect yourself, you have to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u176	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u177	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'd like to say that this bill doesn't actually make any sense. It doesn't make any sense for two reasons. First of all, it was pointless from the beginning, because it does not solve social conflicts in such a way, with such sudden laws. You just don't do it. Secondly, it doesn't make any sense because it's already unobtrusive. It's just that there's no problem right now. And why we shouldn't make such laws in reserve, my colleagues have already told us. If you had been consistent, you would have adopted a bill in a moment that would have protected hospitals from strike by means of the fact that the founding authority would have appointed officials who would have gone to the hospital and carried out dressings, carried out surgeries. How about if the firefighters get hit, you make a bill that's gonna get us to go, replace the firefighters? No. There's just some competitions you can't replace. To become a doctor, to become a teacher, it takes a very long time, for many years to learn, to pass various grades. The state of this bill... This is such a vote of distrust towards the teacher and this is really humiliating the teachers, because this is a saying: everyone can replace you, you are not needed for anything, we can replace you, everyone can replace the teacher and judge the student. That's not true, because not everyone can do it. The student's assessment takes place as a result of many years of hard work of the teacher with the student. This is direct contact, this is an evaluation... It is sometimes so that at the end the teacher states that in the last month some student got to work, suddenly became urgent, jumped over himself, wrote a few things, answered. Will any clerk who will replace the teacher know about this? It won't. I don't want to talk about it, because it really is a completely meaningless bill, so typically harmful. The fact that she's being carried out this way, we know, it doesn't surprise us, that's the term, so disrespectful, also for us senators. I'd like to join what one of my colleagues was talking about. This time I'm gonna feel a little sorry for someone to understand what it looks like. Many of us are abandoning our homes, their perhaps demanding parents, etc., to suddenly come to the Sejm or the Senate, and it turns out that, since we already have this extra bill, we're going to have another one: stay one more day. And in addition, one of the senators of the ruling party who has an influence on this, who could take care of order, tells us that we weren't at the committee meeting. How were we supposed to come to this committee meeting? I didn't even know what time it was, we were getting a text message about the meeting. It's outrageous, that's all. Now I'd like to talk about teachers. I went to school in Wroclaw, for many years I was a councillor, really long years, and we had a lot of contacts with teachers. In Wroclaw, we took care of teachers and there teachers earn quite well. But at the moment, because of the long time that these salaries have not been paid, these salaries are outrageous. And they're not what the state television tells us, who's been lying from morning to evening, all day, and then finally, she announced that... she wrote something about the ZNP capitulating, she wrote it on the TV strip. What do you mean, the union capitulated? Does that mean someone won some kind of war, which means there's some kind of Polish-Polish war or there's power fighting with teachers? What does that mean? After all, it's embarrassing for this power, you really shouldn't do that. I'd like to say that teachers don't fight for money. I was at a meeting with the biggest school team in Wroclaw. I talked to my teachers for three hours, they talked about their situation. I've spoken to experienced teachers who are about to retire, and I've also spoken to teachers who are just... with interns who are starting their lives. I talked to a young, talented girl who graduated from Wroclaw and is an intern, and I asked her the question straight away: you're young, please tell me what you think of this strike? And she says, "Senator, I've made my decision, I'm not gonna stay in the profession." Now you want to make a round table at the end of your term. This is ridiculous. What will we improve after such ruins of Polish education? After the time when the school was ruined by reloading the program, by imposing content that is foreign to teachers? 'Cause I heard voices like that, too. People don't want to indoctrinate children, they want to give them objective knowledge, they don't want to shape them the way you want to shape society right now. And that is the point: teachers fight for this dignity, the dignity of their professional group and the shape of education, the Polish school. These teachers, if they are taken seriously, will repay the public with their work. Please note that Prime Minister Morawiecki It's amazing. Even though the strike lasts so long, he hasn't found time to meet his teachers. It hasn't been... I don't recall that kind of power. But it's characteristic of you because it's you guys... President Kaczyński was happy today. I've really seen it. I've seen it live. I've seen that law come into force. This bill is a failure of all, including power, this law is a total failure of power. President Kaczyński was pleased, I am not surprised at all, because it was during the time of Prime Minister Kaczyński that the terms "educators" were created. Remember? And now it's coming back, it's coming back to people, people remember it. People also remember, especially those who remember martial law, that very often at that time we said that a police state is one where a policeman makes more money than a teacher; so it was said. You're the government that gave the police a raise and didn't give the teachers a raise. It's a good thing you gave it to the cops, but I'm talking about who you gave it to first and how you gave those raises to those cops, how you behave. And finally, about spitin' on that layer of work, because it's amazing. We've had the same situation with residents for this government, with judges, with families with disabilities. When you're attracted to a group, a whole big professional group, when it's different from you, then you turn on the whole heyt machine on social media, on public television. Some principal got in touch and she was immediately mirrored, and all her property claims were checked out. Well, that's what you do with anybody who doesn't think so. If on TV teachers feel like caste, just like the judges before... You're making enemies out of a group, you're making teachers a bitter group that thinks power is against it, and stops trusting society. Will they be good teachers? Will they raise our children well? I hope so. Finally to you, to you, to the Senators of the PiS, I would like to appeal to you to come to your senses. What power goes to war with teachers? Come to your senses. This is the group you should have behind you, which every power should cherish. This is also a very important group from a social point of view. This is a group to raise good citizens. If you have them against each other... [[Mrs. Senator...]] If you have this professional group against you, you will lose your power for a very long time. And that's what teachers will take care of. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u178	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to speak for a moment to the senator who heard the rumblings somewhere. That cocksucker... I don't know how you define that word, but that chuckle wasn't in the gym today, and I hope it won't be completely, because there's nothing to laugh or joke about, much less how you used it, to laugh. But first of all, I would like to bow down and thank all teachers, staff and other educational staff for carrying out a strike in accordance with the law, with the collective dispute resolution law and for having made the public aware of the conditions under which and for which money they work. Well, we learned that teachers often earn less than a student has pocket money. I think you'll remember that, for example. renting a 40-metre studio apartment in Warsaw costs PLN 2 000 200 and the salary is PLN 2 000 800. This should be remembered. So, if you're not saying this is a mission, ladies and gentlemen... Using your parents' financial assistance at the age of 40 is what? Is it a pleasure? These are educated people. We no longer have a problem with unemployment. These people can genuinely find a much better job for a much better salary. And I'm afraid... Because it wasn't a random question of mine. There is information that a law is to be introduced on the fact that teachers after 30 years of work, and after 20 years of working on the board, will be able to retire early. Is that really what this is about? Another group has a chance to retire. That's how you deprive yourself of opportunities... or give people a chance... who no longer see the opportunity to perform this beautiful mission, their work... to leave with dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you one more time... You remember the saying 'cause it was, Mr. Marshal probably remembers that if the teacher actually makes less money than the policeman, it's a police state. This is bad for all of us about us, about the political class, not just about the government. It should be our concern to reduce the frustrations of teachers who make little money, but it still happens, unfortunately. It's very common. That they are insulted by government representatives. Here I will mention, among others. Wehrmacht, Minister of Jaki, for whom he apologized. But for comparing your editor Janecki to the ZOMO on public television, no one apologized. Ladies and gentlemen, teachers educate, have contact with young people. Young people also watch TV and listen to government representatives. What do they think? How will they relate to teachers? I was at my primary school teacher's funeral the day before yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been a lot of us from the same class because he was a great man. The night I saw the editor of government television refer to the teacher... Ladies and gentlemen, this is our future. This is how children and young people are shaped at the moment, through such expressions. You're also saying that you had to introduce such rules because it threatened to fail to conduct your M.A., lack of classification. What choice did they have? The talks and mediations that even the President applied to weren't allowed. Government answered unambiguously: there is 15% raises and that's it. And other groups, protesting, had other means so-called. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, After all, until today we remember that the tires were burning here and not only, the gates were closed and so on. And these people just got raised. After the police suddenly got sick before 11 November, they received these raises and the Minister praised that they would most likely stop getting sick. Of course, it's very good that they got those raises. But what? Can you blackmail me? Was that legal? Absolutely not. And this strike was conducted in accordance with the law, in accordance with the law on the resolution of collective disputes, I will remind you of that. This strike was broken, he wasn't finished, he was broken by humiliation. These speeches today, ladies and gentlemen... We should all thank and say, well, we'll think about it in the future, we'll sit down to talk. But not to the round table, because... Ladies and gentlemen, this is a question that has been raised by Senator Czerwinski, my colleagues and many others, i.e. Yes, Mr. Senator Radziwiłł, the local authorities are elected in direct elections, the mayor too. And what if they refuse? What will remain then? We can't answer that. Decrees? I don't think that's what we're talking about. Then all we have left is direct coercion. It's not like we're allowed to do that. So we talk all the time about mediation and openness. Let us not address the teachers who today face a huge dilemma and problem in such a way that... I hope it will not be decrees, although the deadline for the round table is close, because it is tomorrow. We're not familiar with the decrees at all. I have an appeal for you. We're all chosen here in a completely different mode. Of course, we are elected from political groups, but the Senate has always been associated with the House of Reason and Reason. I have a request and an appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, please address your representatives to the members of the government. Minister, this is for you, too. I'm an ex-relationship, and so are you. You were the parole officer, you were the principal, you are now the vice minister. Start talking to your teachers. You can't win with teachers the way you did today. It's not a win, there's nothing to triumph over, it's not a triumph. Lean on it, ladies and gentlemen, and return to mediation. There are people who, by both sides, would be equally accepted with great confidence. Go back to the table. Don't make a round table at the stadium because it really sounds bad and there's really no positive effect here. You're welcome. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u180	Thank you very much. Senator Mikołajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u181	Dear Marshal, High Senate! This is an extremely important bill and these are important changes. Dear Maturists, you can take a breather of relief. I cordially greet you and wish you good luck on your exam. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki needs to be thanked for this legislative initiative and for the fact that we can discuss here today so that the students of the senior classes can take this exam. Young people need peace. I think most of us remember our stress before our maturity test. Young people today need peace and certainty that they will be able to pass this exam. Teachers have the right to strike. I'm a teacher, and I'm sympathetic about a lot of things with teachers. Of course, we need to talk about wage increases, we need to talk about some changes in the education system, which, I believe, are still necessary. We all need to talk about it and talk about it. Therefore, the proposal for a round table, to which the trade unions and representatives of the opposition do not want to sit, and this is what you spoke of today. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard here that this bill is pointless, I quote one of the senators. I have the impression that you would be happy if this law had not been passed and if the students of the senior classes had not been classified. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's sad, it's terrifying that a senator can think in these categories. [[That's not true, that's not true.]] [[There's no such connection...]] I'm ashamed of those who think so! Shame, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause]] I, as a long-time teacher, raised as teacher of Korczak, as teacher of Professor Maria Grzegorzewska, would never in my professional ethics think that I could stop working and not classify students before such an important exam. I feel that we have achieved in this debate the Himalayas of absurdity and hypocrisy by the Senators of the Civic Platform. You scumbags talk about education? [[Voices from the room: The last eight years...]] [[Voice from the room: Who?]] You who, for eight years of your reign... [[Voice from the room: For the last eight years...]] ...eight years of your reign, not the last, have you led to what happened in the world? You who have not given teachers any raises since 2012 and have even reduced the salary by introducing two so-called. card hours? [[That's a lie.]] And today you have the audacity to talk about how you talk to teachers and how you care about them? You're talking, but you're talking to the Chairman of the Dear Mr. Grzegorz, who is speaking from the speaker. Yes, dear Mr. Grzegorz... This is the deal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Marshal, this is...]] Sorry about the strike. As I said, teachers have a right to it, they have a lot of reasons about the issues raised, they have become a strike for me, typically a political strike, as advocated by certain groups, certain persons, in various types of manuals in texts that I had little pleasure in reading. And today I regret to mention that, unfortunately, teachers have lost most of their lives on this strike. I'm saying this with great regret because I'm always going to say that I'm a teacher, and I'm going to be solidarity with my teachers. But, like I said, pedagogical ethics would never even let me think that I couldn't classify students. We should all build together the authority of the teacher, not destroy it with certain behaviors that took place in schools, teachers' rooms, and digging a ditch between those who did not strike and strike. Believe me, I know a lot of teachers who aren't scary. What they've been through... I could read texts here, like Senator Fedorovich, but that's not the point. That was very sad. Let's respect our rights. Those who were on strike had that right, those who didn't strike had that right, too. Let's respect each other. Those ditches that were dug during this strike, unfortunately, will be difficult to bury, and these people will work together for the benefit of our young people. It's the student who's the priority at school. Of course, there is a need for dialogue between the three most important actors in the school: students, teachers and parents. I believe this dialogue will be. Ladies and gentlemen, let me quote something, like Senator Flork: adding billions more will not change the situation of teachers; no money and teachers should work longer; teachers should work longer than they are working today; teachers already have written down today that they should work up to 40 hours, only of course it looks different; teachers should work effectively up to 40 hours a week; teachers should be expelled, this is a martial law document; the state budget has no further money. Who said that? Minister Kluzik-Rostkowska, Minister for PO and PSL. And last but not least, there's a lot of questions here, too. Ladies and gentlemen, when are you going to stop hypocrisy and hypocrisy and accept that the PiS won the election and not the state? 'Cause I feel like today is the next time... [[Voice from the O.R.: Finish.]] ...you show your behavior that you can't accept it. And for the sake of students and young people, please don't heat up the atmosphere among teachers. I will always emphasize that we have many wonderful teachers in Poland and we need to take care of them together, all of them, on one side of the political scene. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It was hypocrisy. It was really hypocritical.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u182	Thank you very much. Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Probably no one with a healthy mind can agree that since 2015 the crisis of the Polish school begins. I can tell you my 25 years of schoolwork. You wouldn't want to hear it. Depreciating this profession... Many Elderly Teachers They're already mostly retired. He says that after the changes in the system there was really a period of hope during the Mazowieckie rule. So many teachers remember those times. At that time, salaries were slightly higher, many teachers even went from university to secondary school. And then there was this slope and this process, unfortunately, ended now. I will no longer talk about these circumstances, because probably none of the sides of the political scene would be satisfied with this I think that this protest would look different, the discussions between the government and teachers would be different if the protest had not entered the path of such a strong media message, which, of course, is behind political interests. And this is a very difficult situation. That is why I agree with my previous speaker, Senator Mikołajczyk, that the biggest losers of this strike will be teachers. Unfortunately, if it were to happen that the government would agree to accept the proposal of the Polish Teachers' Association concerning the increase of PLN 1 000 per hand, then, aside from the budget, the finances of the state This increase would cement the wrong system, which is, in terms of the functioning of schools, the dimension of the teacher's work, the motivation for work, etc. It would only cement what is. Because I'm sure not everyone was lying in the hospital, not everyone had contact with a doctor, but the school was everybody's. More or less, we know how teachers work. And no government has had the courage to say to itself for 30 years that this system needs to be changed and to think: if the school is to be state-owned and if the budget is to be spent on schools, who should be the ultimate decision-maker in granting this money to a suitable school? In my opinion, this final decision should be a parent. It's the parent's job to decide where the money goes, who follows his child. I think this general teacher rebellion, because that's what I'm calling it right now, might have a good dimension, so that we can finally wake up and start talking about whether or not all the teachers... Because it's not a profession that requires that kind of competence. I don't want to hurt anybody here. It's like making screws. This is a profession that requires vocation. No studies, no postgraduate studies, no infinite courses, which are mass, will replace this one thing: calling, because either you have it or you don't have it. You can't build an Autorite on whether you're paid well for your job or not enough. In order to have authority in students, you need not only good knowledge, sometimes excellent knowledge, but also social skills that attract a young man to this master, whether it's high school, whether it's primary school or middle school. That's why I think this is the moment for a very serious national reflection. Of course, I understand such a political message that when you say there's a discussion at the National Stadium, everyone sees grass and it's funny. But when someone was there, he knows that there are halls where the NATO conference was held and serious discussions. There was a project to find a building, probably neutral, but it's a pickle. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is also what came out of this strike when it comes to matters relating to everything that is outside of college, except for the medical profession, i.e. the ethics of the profession, with this backbone. Well, unfortunately, social media has a lot of downsides. And I, as a teacher with a really big internship of work sometimes embarrassedly looked at some of the behaviors of people who are supposed to be authorities and who are about to meet young people after this strike and teach them about tolerance, will talk about the need to respect another person, that you can have different views on different matters, also on the issue of this strike. And the student will ask: "Professor, why were you roaring at those ladies who didn't strike?" Why did such an ostracism happen on your part? And it doesn't make sense anymore, it's a distortion of the transmission. A young man, very sensitive to such things, will see it. So again, I'm saying that the great loss of this strike is for the teaching community. Retired people came for middle school exams and primary schools. A lot of people didn't want to come in. And they just, having different political views, wanted to help these young people, because they felt that way. And they meet with some kind of rejection or even with some form of accusation that they disrupt the fight for the common good of teachers, etc. So that I have a few such reflections in the heat. And I would very much like to learn a few lessons from this trauma that we're all going through. First of all, so that the school would not be as strong a political confrontation as this strike showed, and so that it would be possible to sit down for conversations, probably in such a large group, because it would have to be done in a really reliable way and to think about what the Polish school lacks. As I said, it's not a first-rate issue, how many years will a young man be studying in general school, whether there'll be middle school or there won't be middle school, how many years will high school be, but the basic thing is what the staff will be like. If there is no improvement in the quality of teaching, if there is no incentive to work, if you do not reject the school's bailout... 'Cause what's a promotion system? It's just the paperwork, the files were getting ready. At the moment, the situation is that after a few years, we have come to the conclusion that most are diplomat teachers who have actually completed their promotion. And what can they do? Those who become a professor of education can be counted on the fingers of one hand. I could tell you guys about this for a long time. I'm gonna ask you from this bleacher to come to our senses in this policy. The world of politics is important, but it's not just ideas, it's business. I'm asking you to take a look at what's been going on in a lot of speeches today. I wouldn't want it to be just clichés. Such will be the common things that their youth hide. I wish the Polish school all the best, and teachers persevere so that they can look to the future with hope. Well, I'm still hoping that there'll be people on both sides of the political scene who won't sting, won't conflict, just find a solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, I'd like to actually put myself in the tone and atmosphere of my previous speaker's speech. Thank you for saying that. I have the impression that Senator Gawel has brought this debate to the right track in the Senate. Today is generally quite sad for me, perhaps even very sad about what's going on around education. It's comforting in all of this to know that the M.A. will be held in a normal way. This is good news, this should introduce some element of much-needed peace. I hope that happens. Except for the good news that this bill... Well, in a better way or in a worse way. But, we hope, effectively, it will ensure that the Matura will be held in peace and without threats. Besides, the whole procession and the affairs of this bill make me sad. The first thing is: This has already been mentioned on the margin - another downgrade of Parliament and a bill within a few hours. Well, unfortunately, we've gotten a little used to it, so maybe we should just leave it on the side. It's sad, but that's what we've been talking about. Even sadder is actually the state of education, a certain climate that has developed. In my opinion, it comes down to the fact that education, school, children, teachers, parents, school space... Well, it's all been dragged into politics, fell between the swordsmen's political blades, and these blades are ruthless. Politics is ruthless. There's no jokes here, there's no mercy. Right now, after a few conversations with friends or friends of teachers, I feel like they've woken up with some huge hangover, sort of spit out a little bit, thrown out by this political system, a ruthless struggle. And the question is what to do with it. I feel terrible about it, I feel responsible for it to some extent. I don't want to judge who's responsible right now. Ladies and gentlemen, let's fight in our breasts. What are trade unions in schools today? Well, what are one, two, third trade unions today? It's too bad to say. They represent certain political interests. How much do they identify with the actual education that even my previous speaker was talking about? How many trade unions today represent the quality of education in Poland? Well, I'm not gonna keep doing this, 'cause I don't think there's much time. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I would like to say this as gently as possible. There were words here that the tragedy of the Polish school and education began three years ago, with this reform. Come on, let's be serious. This reform can be criticised, but this is not where it started. This reform, whatever it is to say, was an attempt, it seems to me that it is not very successful, since we are here after 3 years, but certainly honest in intentions, in intentions. Getting the Polish school out of a certain collapse and directing it to a better track. So far, it's not working out very well. It's obvious we have a problem that this doesn't work out very well. But it's my responsibility to get involved because I'm going back to that thread. Schools and education space, which, like foreign policy, should be over, beyond... Education should unite us all, because it is our common interest, regardless of political colors, and it was drawn, unfortunately also by you, by the opposition, you represent the opposition, so I say by you, as you said to us, that we ruined the school to the political game. Well, unfortunately, that's the way it is, and it's terrible, it's terrible. Of course, it does not bring glory to the opposition by dragging the school into the current political dispute during the election year. I call for sobriety to come, so as not to continue to do so, to withdraw from this and not use this conflict for the next election. It's a very great temptation, I get it, but it's really bad. Nevertheless, Summa Summarum, the greater responsibility for matters falls on the rulers, of course, on us. - for the parliamentary majority and for the government side. And the fact that this situation right now is what it is, regardless of intent, regardless of the words... I could argue very strongly again that the government didn't want to talk about shutting down that he was conflicting... These are some completely incomprehensible accusations to me. The fact that the Polish government would have an interest in destroying the teachers' environment is a completely incomprehensible charge. But regardless of the intention, responsibility for the stability of the system, for the quality of education, ultimately falls more to the government and the rulers. Here a huge appeal also to the Minister. The so-called meeting is to be held tomorrow. Round table. You can look at it differently. I understand certain suspicions. 'Cause I don't know what else to call it. The opposition that it can only be certain... a certain fireworks, a certain game of appearances. So I am very appealing to the Minister to present at this meeting tomorrow whether the message from the Senate is that there is a great expectation that the government will genuinely address the challenges of education, the challenges that my previous speaker spoke about here. I don't want to say it again. This is really extremely necessary. And there must be some concrete adjustments, some changes in this reform that is being introduced, that are needed. That's what the situation we're in indicates. So we must do everything we can to restore some agreement and consensus at this moment in school and in the space of Polish education. Because the teachers' environments are very conflicted, they're... There's bad blood, there's just bad blood in this space, and it's us as politicians who are ultimately responsible. So we should do everything we can to reverse this fatal tendency. Maybe according to the rule that there's no bad thing that doesn't work out for the best. And that's a bad thing that happened in the last weeks and months in our schools, in specific pedagogical councils, etc. We should reverse it for good, do something to change this trend. I know that in the election year it will be very difficult, because political emotions prevail here, but it cannot be that the Polish school is drawn into political conflict and is played by one, the other, the third and I don't know by whom else In order to achieve some current benefits associated with the elections. It's unacceptable, and it shouldn't be. Today, above all, the Prime Minister, Mr President, has a responsibility to reverse this fatal trend. But this responsibility also lies with you. On the opposition, on the representatives of teachers. Finally, my message, my appeal, but this is also a certain point about the principle that reform was being done. Well, we seem to believe too much in a certain omnipotence of the state, in the fact that some team of experts will gather, will write an excellent bill and it will work from the top. Well, it doesn't work very well. Less countries at school, more autonomy and more diversity! Well, that strike call of $1,000 for all teachers wasn't a good idea. That's not how it's supposed to be, and teachers should make a lot of money, too, because there are different places, different schools. That can't be done centrally from the top. Less countries and less centralism in schools, more autonomy, more wisdom, and more trust in the wisdom of teachers. Because at the moment they have become, as you can see, some victims of this political fencing we naturally cultivate here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Professor, you just sent a message on behalf of the Senate to the participants of tomorrow's round table. I think less than the Senate would have signed your message. Besides, I'm afraid this round table won't be made up. We already know that. From the backgrounds representing Polish education. High Senate, the amendment of education law in the course of a dispute with the environment of teachers and educational workers can only be read in one way: the law is to be passed instead of negotiating an agreement ending this largest collective dispute since 1993. Today, the government claims that this is an emergency situation and that in this situation it must choose between the right to strike and the right to education, so it chooses the right to education. He would have that right, but the problem is that this strike is the result of a government's refusal to negotiate a compromise with teachers for more than three months. During this time there were 8 negotiating rounds in which only the teacher's side was looking for compromise. So it was the government that put itself in this difficult position. And we, the senators, put us in that position. Worse yet, in this hot atmosphere, the government Or the ruling party distributed lucrative electoral promises to different groups worth more than 40 billion PLN. To humiliate teachers to the end, the ruling party even announced that it would raise money from the European Union for every pig and for every cow in Poland Notabene this promise is not real. [[Senator Józef Łyczak: What did this have to do with teachers?)]] [[It has to do with the money.]] [[Voice from the room: Turned up the strike. That's why...]] [[The voice from the room: It was a disgrace in this...]] If the head of the party is talking about cows and pigs at the sharpest moment of the social conflict, and 700,000 people are talking about cows and pigs, and he's not talking about teachers, then that's the connection, Mr. Senator! [[Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł: It's about farmers...]] In the background there were statements full of contempt for teachers and environments who were in dispute with the current Polish rulers. It also has to do with the atmosphere in which this conflict is taking place. Let me remind you: they were compared to the Wehrmacht soldiers. Let me remind you that the environments that are in dispute with the government were compared to collaborators working with the Nazis! It also has a connection, affecting the atmosphere of this conflict. The government thus showed, not for the first time, how lowly the teachers are. He also showed that if the teachers had been included in a higher sort, even a little higher sort, he would have found money for them. But by showing it all during the teacher's protests, he told the teachers in the eye: for you, teachers, we don't have money, and what are you going to do to us? And this amendment that we're trying today is the answer to the question, and what are you going to do to us? After all, we, the government, have the majority and power that allows us to establish educational law that allows us to eliminate teachers from the educational decision-making process. Ironically, it happens in parallel with the narrative about respect for teachers, about the fact that the money that teachers demand belongs to them, but they don't get it because the budget is empty. After all, according to the government, teachers should know that money belonged to others. They belonged to ministers, they belonged to the Prime Minister, they belonged to public television, they belonged to policemen and pensioners. Except they got the money, the teachers don't get it. I, High Senate, do not question the validity of 13 for pensioners or the increase for police officers, but question the mode of conversation with the society that leads to its sharing. Because it is worth asking whether teachers should know and understand that the government has been so busy in the distribution of money that they are not today to meet the demands that it itself considers justified. And should teachers give way in this situation? Because I think it's the government that should hit their chests and admit that we can't manage the state. The proof is that he spends tens of billions of PLN and at the same time refuses them to those he speaks of: we believe that this money belongs to you. Isn't that a mockery of teachers? And I will remind you that especially the Senators of PiS like to remember that teachers were earning below the national average until 2008 and since 2016. Think about who was in charge then. And what is the situation with local governments? In my constituency, comprising the 4 counties of Bartoszycki, Bravski, Lidzbarski, Elbląskie urban and Grodzki In 2 years, local authorities have paid PLN 426 million to the educational grant. The majority of this money was paid by local governments instead of state subsidies, which is not enough to carry out basic educational tasks. In many municipalities, it is not enough to subsidise even teachers' wages, and it is a general practice not to compensate local governments for the cost of wage increases resulting from, for example, raising the minimum wage and improving qualifications. In the case of Elbląg, this is the amount of PLN 10 million. On a national scale it is the amount of about PLN 15 billion. That's the amount that local governments have added to their education. Again, instead of reflection and respect, we hear from the Prime Minister that local governments are saving on teachers. Isn't this a mockery of local governments? The government should return this money to the local government and I have applied to the Prime Minister or declare bankruptcy. A company, an institution that doesn't pay debts, is bankrupt. It has to be said that this government is bankrupt, it has bankrupted, and it has to be found another solution. I hear a remedy for all of this is supposed to be called. a round table to which some participants are chosen by way of drawing, which is an interesting form of democracy. We're gonna draw who's gonna make the decisions. And most real stakeholders do not intend to participate in this round table. And, if you take this into account, there is no reason to be surprised, because what this has to do with the idea of a round table, which, by its very nature, requires a formula to be agreed with all participants. Is this formula agreed with all potential stakeholders? This round table is also instead of a dialogue that should have started 3.5 years ago when the government was destroying a well-functioning education system, without considering the protests of nearly a million Poles. Isn't that a joke about democracy? I took the liberty of this reflection to show that the situation in which we are debating the revision of education law was provoked even by the government on purpose. Instead of negotiating with teachers, a government that provokes them and insults them, instead of working with local governments, pushes on them the burdens of education, rather than consulting teachers about the education system, imposes on them its concepts. And today, this government tells teachers that you're not dealing with the situation. But it doesn't say what we've led to anymore. He doesn't say that anymore. He says, if you teachers dare to strike us, we will send you to the dumb bench using our monopoly to change the law. That's the bill. That's why I won't support this bill. And by the way, I am on the side of the sovereign, on the side of 700,000 teachers, on the side of the families of 9 million children who study in Polish schools. I thank the teachers for their wisdom, maturity and responsibility. Again, and unfortunately, they did it instead of the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u188	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just a moment ago, we had two different speeches... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Can I have a moment of peace, please? We just had two different speeches by the Senators of Law and Justice. I will say that I personally listened with great pleasure to the speech and to Professor Bobka and Senator Gawł, who spoke about what should be as if ahead of us, i.e. the ability to open up, discuss and answer the question: quo vadis, Polish education? Today we are in a very difficult situation. Meanwhile, to talk, Senator Mikołajczyk says: Okay, okay, what do you suggest here? Do you remember those eight years? And in a moment he says: Let us respect ourselves, let us be open to one another, you hypocrites and hypocrites are to us. Well, very logical, Mr. Senator, and I'd like to say that it fits in with a very good technique of law and justice, but not all of them, because, as I said, I'm signing off on everything I've heard from the Professor and Senator Gawl's mouth. Polish education genuinely needs not to mention who did and what did wrong. I want to say that I also share the view that there has been no good atmosphere so far. In general, not to talk about any government As far as education is concerned, it must also be said that today the Law and Justice rule, and we must answer the question of how in relation to education the rulers pursue the goals and tasks of the Polish state. I'm not going to use any political comparisons here. I just want to recall the most important things, because I suspect that not everyone has read this, a list of 15 winners of the best teachers in Poland from 2002 to 2018. These 15 people have written several postulates about today's education, not being involved in whether it is the 1990 or 1993 actions, etc. Today is 2019, we have this situation. It needs to be addressed and a few questions answered. Ladies and gentlemen, they say this: we have observed that there will be chaos. If someone says that in the Polish school when introducing reform I don't get into whether good or bad was not and there's no chaos, and the biggest one is just ahead of us... Well, let's not lie to each other, because it's not enough to have a fantastic minister's smile and words: everything is under control, it's okay, it's even better. Uncovered implementation costs. They say: we knew this would happen. And it was. I did this actually not referendum, I just asked it in 4 counties from my district and it turned out that the proportion is: 70% They've covered local governments, 30% of them are state subsidies. It must have cost you. So why lie to one another that it won't cost anything and the jobs will come? We in this team, which Prof. Grodzki led, had representatives of all local governments and the Ombudsman of children's rights. And that's what this painting looked like, exactly as these winners, the winners of the title of Teacher of the Year describe it. I'm glad the professor and the senator are talking about us talking and looking for what we have in common. What do they say? It says that when reforming education, the voice of local governments was not taken into account at all. The municipalities built schools, middle school, and then they said, "There's no new system, there's a new system, you're tearing it down, you're working for other purposes... After all, ladies and gentlemen, this is something that some poor communities have built out of loans and are still paying off to this day. This has not been taken into account at all. What else does the authors say? It is that during the functioning of such a school system various kinds of human teams were formed. A team of people was created to create certain programs, implement them, and monitor them. This has been done better or worse, there are suggestions and reservations, but the system has been confident that there are groups of people who are implementing various kinds of projects. During implementation, it was completely disregarded that these teams would completely crash. Without creating something completely different, new. It's not like we're ruining things to start creating something new. Scientific environments say that there is no scientific basis for making changes. And Professor Jakub Brdulak talked about introducing this without piloting and against global trends. And this is where I sign what Professor Bobko said: less of you at school is a better school. I think seven years ago there was this conference in France. I quote it a lot. The more a country at school, the worse education is. And we do the opposite: more countries in school, and we want education to be better. More freedom is needed for local governments, and above all betting on the teacher as a person who is the pillar of Polish education. When it comes to publications and books that are needed at school... It says here that publishing houses won't have time to prepare textbooks. Within a month, textbooks are prepared, which are loaded with content, completely unprepared. Encypedicism is the guiding principle of the new changes that have been made. Evaluation of Polish education. In December last year, there were tests taken. It was pretty bad to say so gently: 40% It's an average grade in eighth grade exams. Well, if anyone has kids in seventh and eighth classes, they know what's going on. There can be no good education out of such chaos. In addition, they say that encyclopedic knowledge injected without exercise in subjects such as physics, biology, chemistry is something that leads to waste of time and teaches absolutely nothing. The authors of the letter also say that over the last three years Polish education has receded by 30 years. We are going in the opposite direction than other countries in Europe and in the world, the ones that are the most developing when it comes to education. That's what you were talking about, Professor Bobko. And finally, it says that all these voices, all these observations, all these comments that they made, which were in the debate around the strike, they met with a total media chase. This involved surrender and other things that took place at the Polish school. Well, that's not how dialogue is conducted. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, it will be about finance. One of the important elements, as I personally believe... Senator Gawel here said it wasn't just about money. I believe that money is an important element of the respect and dignity of the teacher. Of course, money alone doesn't decide that. I will give an example of the Nordic countries and Finland. There, apart from emphasising elements concerning the quality of teaching, total denationalization of education, teaching... It also puts itself on high wages. Today, a Polish teacher starting a job earns 10 times less than a similar teacher in the European Union. These are not good standards that build the authority of Polish education. I would like to say that as a member of the budget committee in 2018, I made a proposal when adopting the budget to allocate PLN 2 billion to raises, not knowing, of course, I'm abstracting from talking about political strikes. There's gonna be a problem. And remember that in the end of 2018, to the joy of the Senators of Law and Justice, we adjusted the budget by PLN 10 or 12 billion. The miners got, well, they all got. Who didn't? Teachers. They didn't get it again. Within this budget, we applied for an unincreasing deficit to allocate PLN 4 billion to raises. These would be elements that would alleviate these financial tensions. But besides that, I think it's probably the most important thing. Let there be less state, less centralism, more wisdom, more self-reliance of local governments, and above all a teacher. Let us bet on the development of education, not on the encyclopedic playback, which the authority tells teachers to teach. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u190	Please, Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have listened to a few speeches here, above all to Senator Gawl, Senator Bobka, who differed from such simple praises of everything that the government has done and what it does, what is rather rare in the mouth of the Senators of PiS. Let me be critical of you, which does not mean that I do not share some of the threads that you have touched. Well, let's recall some facts. First of all, no one questioned and does not question that teachers in Poland are currently making too little money. It would be good if we didn't appeal to the years before, for a very simple reason. In fact, there have been huge increases in teachers' wages between 2009 and 2013. These increases caused the average teacher's salary to exceed the average national wage. I think you mentioned it here, Senator Wcisla. I've got the right graph here. Well, it may be less visible from a distance, but you can see a little bit. The curve rises above this line, and this line is the average national pay. You can clearly see what was going on. About 2010 average wages in education exceeded the average national wage and increased until 2013, 2014. Then it started to fall, and about 2017 it fell below the national average and was still falling. So the charges against the previous crew that she didn't raise her wages for three or four years are misplaced. Because these raises were high first... It must be remembered that Poland was in an excessive deficit procedure related to the crisis at the time. At one point, the deficit reached 7%. GDP and the process of lowering this deficit has begun, which has been a painful process. When Law and Justice won the elections and gained power, they had already received a budget with a deficit of about 2%. Therefore, these references to the past and criticism that they are predecessors, etc., I find it completely wrong. I understand that the government could not take such action immediately in 2016, maybe it could not even take it in 2017. But from the moment the budgetary situation began to be very good... This year it's already excellent, well, the budget deficit last year was 0.4% And it was historically low. Well, glory, of course glory, only now is the question of what to do with it. Well, the government had two choices. One way out is to block the deficit at this level or maybe even at zero level And say, for the first time, we have achieved budgetary balance and let's stick to that. I think that would be a very good solution. But there is a second solution, a second option: there are urgent, important social needs and we must at least implement them in some part, we cannot stop at this zero deficit, but it must increase a bit next year. And what's going on, ladies and gentlemen? On 10 January, the Polish Teachers' Union enters into a collective dispute, announces its readiness to strike, announces that it will hold a referendum, etc. The situation is serious, the union makes its demands. On February 23rd, after a month and a half, the government announces, or rather the president announces, I don't know who exactly announced it there, so-called. Five Kaczyńskis, which means spending 45 billion PLN. Now what's that supposed to mean? For one and a half months, the government has not found in this 45 billion PLN, I do not want to say that not a billion, because a billion has finally found, but it has not found any meaningful amount that would be the basis for negotiations and discussions. Senator Gawel said that the proposal of 1 thousand PLN stiffens, cements, etc., etc. But I haven't heard from the government any proposal not to cement any other solution. No, not at all. What's happening since September 1st is exactly the same thing, only on a smaller scale. So no talks have been made. It wasn't said, for example.: Gentlemen and Teachers, 1 thousand zlotys are not, maybe less, maybe otherwise. We're gonna break it down, and so on. No, there just wasn't a conversation. No. [[Voice from the room: But the conversations...]] No, the conversations have started. After February 23rd, when the signals began to come out that most teachers were in favour of a strike. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't talk about a political strike. If most teachers of 700,000, and I remind you that only 200 thousand belong to the Polish Teachers' Union, she voted for the strike and it was for an unlimited strike, it means that this desperation was big, that this feeling of harm was big. And that's where it started, that's where it started. Unfortunately, I didn't hear the voices of my friends at the PiS at the time that I couldn't, I didn't hear Senator Gawl's voice or Senator Bobka's, with all due respect to the doubts you're expressing today. If that's the way the government does it, that's the way it works. There's a strike. What do we hear now? That teachers take students hostage. That's what we've been talking about. I understand that this is a metaphor. It's just, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like the government took the students hostage because the government's reasoning was: teachers can't stand it, teachers are too attached to the students, to their mission, and they're definitely going to step down, so we're not going to give anything, we're not going to give anything, we're going to wait for them to do it. And of course they did, they did it just in the sense that... many teachers in Poland had this dilemma, all the time had this dilemma... But is this a government victory? No, this isn't a victory, this problem is unsolved. Now somebody's gonna say, "Yeah, but we've been giving 5% since January 1st." , raised, accelerated, 9.5% We've been giving since September 1st. Ladies and gentlemen, this is 15%. The government has been counting this since 2017. So that's 15%. How much? For 3 years: for 2018, for 2019 and for 2020. What's the annual average? Can you tell me? Less than 5%. And how much do wages increase in Poland every year? 6.7% Yes, sir. That means further degradation of the teaching profession, please understand that. This teacher 1 thousand PLN was not excessive at all. After that, the Polish Teachers' Association withdrew from this, reduced these expectations, proposed spread over time, etc., etc. I'm going with these proposals. It could be arranged differently, generally justified, but completely disregarded by the government. They threw such... a separatist agreement with a minority union was signed, considering it was enough. So don't be surprised that that's the nature of the strike. What was said here was that some teachers would growl or roar at others... Ladies and gentlemen, this is a dramatic situation. And what was it like? With the miners' strikes? If one of the miners wanted to feed, what were they doing to him? Except when you were in opposition, you thought it was normal. Of course I do. No, this is a situation that should not be allowed, and the government has allowed it. And finally, finally, Mrs. Marshal, when it comes to this bill that we're investigating here, I would say yes. The government must, of course, take action. Well, I get it. This bill is somehow trying to show it. Just, ladies and gentlemen, why do we process it in one 24-hour period? I have to ask you again. Why has such a proposal not been prepared before? Minister Dworczyk says: and because we had confidence in teachers that they would not do it. Well, I'm really sorry, but this is coquette. The truth is, the government thought it would hold up, that sooner or later it would break, but when they saw that desperation, at least some of the teaching environments, was huge, then of course, he started preparing the bill for rape. So he hasn't prepared anything before. If this had been done before, it was discussed with the local government, with others, then at least we'd know where we stand. Here even the reservations that Senator Czerwiński raised... It already shows that it could have been done differently. Plus, it's all for the end. Ladies and gentlemen, this strike is suspended until September 1. No one knows what's gonna happen on September 1st, what it's gonna look like. The government has four months to think seriously about what to do with this thing right now. And not having cabaret meetings at the stadium... Of course, I don't mean grass, it's clear. It's just funny to have a big meeting a few months before the election about how to heal Polish education. And what did Mrs. Zalewska do for 3.5 years except smile nicely? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u192	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed... [[Were there speeches?]] Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Senator Czesław Ryszka spoke on the record. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Piotr Wach and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Now I'm closing the discussion. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister? [[Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk: No.]] No. Thank you. Let's hear the news. I'm about to announce a recess. [[Voice from the room: Yet the committee...]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held after the adjournment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u193	Messages. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport will take place immediately after the adjournment in room 176 has been announced. Message two. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions will be held on 26 April at 9 a.m. in room 176. The meeting will be held subject to the adoption of the Law by the Sejm on 26 April.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u194	Thank you very much. I'm calling a half-hour break until 12:24. Right after the announcement of the break, the Senior Convention will take place. [[Voice in the Chamber: After the vote is stopped?]] After the vote. [[Adjournment from 23 minutes 54 to 00 minutes 24]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u195	We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the law on the amendment of the law on the system of education and the law on education. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 1160 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to submit a report on the next second meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of the contested law. This meeting was held yesterday. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-senat-77-1.u197	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? The candidates during the discussion were Senator Piotr Wach and Senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if it is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. Voting on the amendments tabled... No... There are no corrections. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Wach's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 20 votes against, 58 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 58 for, 23 against. [[Voting No 9]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Education System and the Law on Education. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a recess until 12:00 tonight. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at 0 minutes 27]]
