ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u1	High Senate, resume your session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. [[Voice from the room: Shh... here we go.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating Jan Olszewski, President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland (1930/2019) and considering this item as a point of the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't see why not. Thank you very much. We proceed to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the creation of an institution of the court in Poland. I would like to welcome the President of the National Curators' Council, Mr Grzegorz Kozera, and other guests very warmly. We would like to welcome you very warmly, Mr President. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and is included in print No. 1065, and the report in print No. 1065 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Richard Majer, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u2	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! On behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Legislative Committee, I am pleased to present a proposal for the adoption of a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the creation of an institution for judicial prosecution in Poland. The court's curators are a professional group which currently consists of 5,000 200 professional curators and about 20,000... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. There you go.]] ...social guardians. From the point of view of the society and the Polish state, court curators perform very important tasks, and their work results in the reduction of crime, the lack of care and education in Polish families and the reduction of areas of social dysfunction in both individual and global terms. A very important task of the court's curators, a diagnostic task, is to conduct environmental interviews that assist the court or other competent authority in the decision-making process. This professional group carries out more than 0.5 million interviews a year. During the course of their duties, the court's curators reach more than one million working environments within a year, with very diverse, very difficult environments, which means that the work of the curators involves particular risks. It is worth recalling that the court's curators are engaged in a profession of public trust. Their work brings tangible results. As an example, the penalty of freedom restrictions and socially useful work can serve as an example. Thanks to this professional group only in 2017 to local communities the work worth more than 108 million PLN was carried out by convicted or punished persons. High Izbo, February 7th, 100 years have passed since the signing of a decree by Chief of State, Józef Piłsudski, under which permanent guardians were appointed. After 10 years of operation, they were transformed into juvenile probation officers. This anniversary provides a unique opportunity to thank all those who over the years have served as a probation officer and have supported the process of raising and rehabilitating a huge number of people at risk of social exclusion through their work. I am convinced that the Senate of the Republic of Poland as a higher chamber of parliament is particularly predisposed to adopt such a resolution. Therefore, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has taken an initiative that has been welcomed by the Legislative Commission. On behalf of the applicants, please adopt a resolution in the proposed form. Now let me read the draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of an institution of the court in Poland. State Warden Józef Piłsudski issued a decree on 7 February 1919 on the creation of juvenile courts in Warsaw, Łódź and Lublin. In these courts, the permanent guardians' office was established, who were renamed juvenile guardians after 10 years of service. In this way, the institutions of the court were formed in Poland. The process of regaining independence by Poland has been a particularly difficult period in our history, because not only has the permanent reconstruction of functions which each country must perform, but also for several years we have been forced to fight for the shape of its borders. Moreover, the emerging Polish state had to face many economic, organisational and social problems. One of them was juvenile delinquency, whose growth was a consequence of war. What deserves special commendation is the fact that the authorities at that time, trying to tackle the problem, were looking for the best solutions in the world, i.e. specialized juvenile courts and judicial authorities. After the first dynamic period of the institution's development of the judiciary in Poland, there was a regression in the 1930s, which was mainly due to the economic difficulties of the Polish state. After World War II, the judicial guardianship began to be rebuilt and developed. Initially, only social guardians were used to reactivate the professional guardianship over time. The experience of this institution was so promising that the judicial guardians began to entrust further tasks. Two specializations have been developed: a family curator who executes decisions concerning family and minor matters, and an adult curator who executes decisions in criminal matters. A breakthrough event in the functioning of this institution was the adoption of the Law on Curators of the Court on 27 July 2001. It has led to the development of a modern model of judicial prosecution in Poland. It is based on a clear definition of the role of curator entrusted with carrying out educational, rehabilitation, diagnostic, preventive and control tasks. The proper implementation of these tasks is fostered by: a separate organisational structure, the granting of multiple powers to curators (accrediting guardians for adults to enforcement bodies) and the inclusion of them in the public trust professions. It should be recognised that this model has been successful, but the passage of time also indicates the need to modify it by clearly specifying the role of family curator in the enforcement proceedings, providing the curators with adequate working conditions, including in particular office services, introducing solutions to improve their safety in the performance of their duties in the care environment. It should be recognised that this model is favourable from the point of view of the state and society and should therefore be supported and developed. The court's curators have been a service that has had a significant positive effect on the safety of society for many years, on the reduction of crime, on the reduction of social pathology and on the demoralization of minors. In the 100th anniversary of this profession in Poland, the Senate of the Republic of Poland commends the court curators for their active work in the service of the state and Polish society. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the rapporteur, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion and asking Senator Piotr Ziientarski to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Member State of the President! High Izbo! I am pleased as a lawyer with many years of experience, as well as the former Chairman of the Legislative Commission, and I would like to express my sincere thanks to the curator's environment. Today is the former President, Mr Andrzej Bartoszewicz, who for many, many years has supported the Legislative Commission with his experience not only on matters relating to curators, but generally, more generally, because also regarding criminal proceedings, civil proceedings where there was a need to establish a curator. This is a very important institution, a servant, when it comes to justice. Without a parole officer, a parole officer who's really involved... Well, it's very hard work, because a curator often enters a criminal environment, a pathological environment, a heartbeat, because he doesn't know what's going to happen there. Often these environments treat him like an intruder, and he comes to shake hands, help. So it's a very hard and responsible job. Like I said, without a parole officer, there's no proper justice system. Today, I think, the entire House absolutely consensually pays tribute to the curators, because there is an opportunity to do so. Once again, I cordially thank you on behalf of all lawyers of practitioners who particularly appreciate the role of guardian. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the creation of an institution of the court in Poland. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? You're welcome. Please state the results of the vote. 67 senators voted, all in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the creation of an institution of the court in Poland. I ask Mr. Grzegorz Kozera, President of the National Curators' Council, to approach the Presidency table. I'll give you a resolution. [[The Vice-Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u6	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is an exceptional day for the probationary judicial service, especially since this resolution has been adopted by the higher chamber of parliament. We've often been at work, and there's been so much talk about it... I would like to thank the senators very much for their extensive knowledge of our profession. In our work we do not often meet with gratitude, which is why it is especially important for us that on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the court's court in Poland I can say that during all these years the court's curators could count on the support of the state, from parliamentarians, for good cooperation. Thank you very much. I thank not only on behalf of all the court curators who are now doing this profession, but also on behalf of all those probation officers who have been doing this profession for 100 years, and today they have received such dignified recognition from the Senate, from the parliamentarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u7	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to thank all of you very warmly, with the chairman of the National Curators' Council. Thank you very much. We proceed to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The text of the information is contained in print No 1070. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The Commission examined and informed the Senate Marshal at its meeting on 12 February 2019. I would like to welcome the State Secretary present at the meeting in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Konrad Szymański. Welcome, Minister. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is my pleasure to once again present to you the summary information on Polish policy in particular during the next Presidency, which has passed recently, the Austrian Presidency. This Presidency was focused on three areas: firstly, security, in particular in the context of migration; secondly, the economic pillar, in particular in the context of the development of the common market and the preparation of the negotiations of the multiannual financial framework; third, external policy, where the Presidency's particular attention was given to the issues of the Western Balkans. Certainly an extremely important political fact during these six months was the completion of the UK exit agreement from the European Union. This agreement was initialled by both negotiating teams and was quickly accepted by the Heads of Government of the EU-27. It is of great importance in many respects. Firstly, it provides international guarantees for the protection of citizens' rights, including a very large group of Polish citizens living in the UK. Secondly, it provides international guarantees of financial settlement, settlement of commitments that took place during the 40-year membership of the UK in the European Union. This should not be understood in any way as an account or as the cost of leaving the UK itself from the European Union. These are commitments that the United Kingdom has voluntarily accepted in connection with membership of this organisation. The third aspect, which is very specific, today the most difficult, is international legal solutions which provide minimum guarantees as regards the legal, organisational and customs regime at the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. And the last element, which often fails to pay due attention, is the great importance for the whole process of the mild, predictable exit of the UK from the European Union, which is a transitional period, which is also part of this agreement. The transitional provisions will not enter into force if the agreement falls, which is not excluded today, which is highly likely. This transitional period is crucial for adapting operators, countries, but above all economic operators from the European Union, to the new trading conditions to be negotiated only in the future. Such negotiations usually take a very long time. The transitional period can be extended up to more than 2 years, which seems to be a very long period, but from the point of view of ambition, which is enshrined in the document accompanying the agreement, i.e. the political declaration, this period is not particularly long. The collapse of the agreement means that there is no transition period, which could have a huge impact on the situation of trade between the United Kingdom and the European Union. This is not just a question of customs, which will have to be introduced into very many groups of goods, which are currently being traded intensively between the European Union and the United Kingdom. This will also have enormous consequences for regulatory aspects, for the capacity of all physical access points to the UK market and vice versa. This is the reason why the ratification crisis, which occurred in the first weeks of this year, is received in Warsaw with the highest seriousness. This is the reason why Warsaw draws attention to the need to take the most serious, creative action to protect the contractual, orderly, predictable process of leaving the UK from the European Union. The alternative is huge chaos. As I said, I do not think he touched the citizens, and this is a very important element of Polish policy on this matter. I think it is safe to say that the mutual declarations of Prime Minister May and Prime Minister Morawiecki on the basis of unilateral national decisions of the same extent of protection of rights in the UK As well as in Poland, the British citizens will be implemented. However, there can be doubts as to whether there will be an equally smooth and efficient settlement of financial commitments, and this situation could jeopardise the liquidity of the European Union budget until the end of this financial perspective. There is certainly great concern about the state of trade relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. This is a very important issue for Poland, because Poland is a very important trading partner of the United Kingdom. Many sectors of our economy are present on the British market. It is not only the agri-food sector, it is also parts for machinery and cars, IT services, business services, furniture. In short, such an unconventional, chaotic brexit with WTO rules, which can be applied soon, at the end of March, is a very, very bad prospect. I draw attention to this because... well, it wasn't part of the Presidency's planned work programme, but it was certainly the most important political event within the six months. This case continues. As I said, the ratification crisis in London is a major challenge not only for London, but also for the European Union, for all capitals. That is why we expect a serious approach to this situation. No matter what we think of the reasons for this crisis, the reasons for the rejection of this agreement by British parliamentarians, this is a political fact which must be answered responsibly, in accordance with its own national interests, at the end of the EU. Turning to these 3 pillars of the planned actions of the Austrian Presidency, of course to a large extent inherited from the predecessors, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the six-month period was very important for a substantial return At least in the discussion, at least in conceptual terms, as far as one of the most difficult elements is concerned, one of the most difficult tensions within the European Union on the basis of a proper migration and asylum policy regime. The Austrian Presidency has made a great deal of effort in this regard. In December, we had the pleasure of hosting a special representative in Warsaw, Chancellor Kurz's envoy, who came here on this very issue, in order to lay down new rules, to lay down new rules for the reform of the asylum system, which, as you know, For more than two years, the Member States of the European Union have been divided, mainly by the international decision-making process or by international legal rules, by the principles of influencing the asylum policy of each Member State. Poland is absolutely attached to this concept so that asylum policy, including the principles and scope of granting international protection to people in difficulty, remains clearly in the hands of the Member States, in the hands of the national states. This issue has been creating disproportionate tensions within the European Union for a very long time, in my opinion. The Austrian Presidency has made a huge return on this issue. This was the first time in conceptual documents that describe potential assumptions and which I would say have to be translated into legislation. It's already been a lot. It is clear that it is realistic that different Member States can participate in the mechanisms of European solidarity in the way they consider the most appropriate, most appropriate and politically acceptable in each Member State. We appreciate this effort very much because we know how difficult it was to get out of the wedge, which has evolved and lasted, as I say, for over 2 years. This was the subject of a special summit in Salzburg, which also shows the importance of the problem in the hierarchy of issues that Austria wanted to address. At the same time, significant legislative progress has been made in the exchange of information, which is important for security policy, including the SIS, Eurodac and VIS. Legislative processes are not completed everywhere, but progress is very important. Poland strongly supports such actions, because the interoperability of information systems, data flow is crucial for the credibility of the Schengen movement, a movement without personal control. In some Member States, of course not in Poland, there is pressure of criticism. I will remind you that in some parts of Europe, relatively close to Poland, they are kept temporarily... Today it is difficult to say that they are temporary. They last so long that this is already a very contractual formulation. There are long-standing temporary border controls which should be withdrawn. Another aspect in the security context was the progress of the legislative work on strengthening the ENISA agency, which mainly deals with digital security. As well as a preliminary agreement on the ECRIS system, which provides for very easy access for Member States' justice institutions to criminal records, which, of course, has Colossal importance for the fluidity of judicial and prosecutorial proceedings. Another aspect in the safety basket was unplanned, but a very large promotion of the subject of cooperation on chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear resistance. It was caused by the enormous shock caused by the chemical attack in Salisbury. The European Union has responded properly on this issue, strengthening the political priority of this aspect. So far, I believe that many countries have felt that such problems are not European problems. After Salisbury, we know that such problems are European problems. In addition to the elements of cooperation, there is also an outline of the sanctioning rules related to potential participation in a chemical attack within the European Union. Significant progress has also been made in further strengthening the European Border and Coast Guard. This was agreed with the unambiguous commitment of Poland. The agency Frontex is renamed today, has a longer name It is headquartered in Warsaw. The mandate was agreed on as regards the role of the Agency in the field of return policy. This is important when it comes to reducing the pressure on irregular migration in the European Union. The Agency's mandate for cooperation with third countries has also been strengthened, which is also important for the effective protection of external borders. I have already mentioned the Austrian concept, a new idea for reform of the asylum system. It's got a huge significance. not only in this particular case, but also political significance, because it paves the way for us to get rid of the problem as quickly as possible. Rules for financing projects under the European Defence Fund have also been agreed. From the very beginning Poland has presented very concrete demands, concrete expectations, as regards the principles of operation of this fund. This was mainly motivated by the fact that we would like to ensure the availability of money from this fund, which could potentially, as part of the MFF negotiations, be a fund with a very large financial envelope. We don't rule that out. The idea was that the rules for managing this money should be friendly to countries such as Poland, countries with less industrial potential in the defence industry, but countries that want to preserve and develop the defence industry. If any EU money is to be placed in this part, then it must of course be available to Polish entities. This is why we have pointed out in our work that we need clear provisions that will apply to smaller, medium-sized enterprises as well as mid-caps. In this category there is a Polish concern PGZ, which, if he wants to and if he has an idea for it, will be able to use this money. The second pillar is economic, as I said, mainly related to the MFF and the common market. There are many different open legislative processes here. Some of them ended relatively recently. As far as the MFF is concerned, it cannot be said that these 6 months were sometimes strictly negotiations, because they were a very important time for the preparation of negotiations, i.e. the distinction between baskets of cases that must be transferred to the level of the European Council, where the Heads of Government in unanimity will decide on the most important rules for the MFF, and those issues that can be shifted to a more regular level of individual sectoral councils. This trial isn't over. Poland continues to maintain certain demands for change. We are now presenting them to the Romanian Presidency. One thing can be said for a hundred percent: the map of budgetary and development interests of the Member States of the European Union is likely to be exactly the same as it has been so far. Countries are more or less in the same position with regard to their expectations, aspirations regarding the multiannual financial framework also apply to Poland The political positions of individual groups of countries and countries are much stronger. This means that this is likely to be the historically most difficult budget negotiations since the start of the multiannual financial framework, because the divergence of these interests and the strength of these positions today is historically unprecedented. This means that the expected or declared moment of completion of the MFF negotiations from May 2019 to autumn 2019 has been shifted very quickly. Everyone is aware that these negotiations will simply be the most difficult precisely because of the significant divergence of national budgetary interests. As regards the internal market strategy, we have a certain gap between the very good, ambitious general declarations on support for the development of the Community market, on internal market development strategies, and at the same time the continuing impasse even in a very groundbreaking, not very ambitious legislative portfolio. I am referring to the freight package, which was intended to facilitate the movement of goods, to facilitate mutual recognition on the Community market. I am referring to the new notification directive, which was intended to consolidate and strengthen mutual recognition of standards in the services market, or the e-card directive, which was intended to facilitate the recognition of qualifications. These are not groundbreaking legislative initiatives. They welcome Poland's strong support because they are intended to improve the functioning of the common market, especially where it is the most underdeveloped, i.e. in the field of services. However, the consequences of clearly protectionist trends in some Member States of the European Union cause that even such modest or medium scale legislative ideas are the subject of a serious long-term deadlock. This shows reality in the light of these declarations, which, of course, we are happy to support, and which unfortunately do not have proper consequences. . proportionate consequences on the basis of legislative facts, on the basis of the law. Digital issues are, of course, an important element in the Community market. Poland, as in the last two years, has sought to promote the principle of the free movement of non-personal data in the common digital market. It's kind of like the blood flow of this whole market. We believe that this freedom should be the fifth market freedom in the European Union. We also point out that the European Union should not wait, should not delay the adoption of the rules on taxation of the digital economy. The business model of the digital economy is new, different from the business models we know from the non-digital economy, and this should have consequences for shaping the tax regime in this case. Because today's system is simply not adequate to the reality of the digital economy. The Gas Directive deserved special attention from the very beginning of our work. I would like to remind you that the draft amendment to the Gas Directive was notified by the European Commission following a very strong appeal by the then Prime Minister Beata Szydło at the European Council meeting in 2017, when there was a controversy between Member States as to whether European law could be applied to some strategic investment in the gas market at that time. The European Commission responded to this extremely constructively It presented a very timely legislative initiative that would clear up this controversy, which Poland had taken the view that there was really no need to amend the law and it is simply necessary to apply the correct interpretation of the existing legislation. Nevertheless, this type of initiative, if it would help anyone to clarify these doubts, was strongly supported by the Polish government. 6 months of the Austrian Presidency was another time, that was another 6 months, during which de facto work on the Gas Directive was stopped. I believe that this was done so that the directive would be agreed at a time when it would no longer be relevant for any real project happening here and now. This was not in the European interest, it was in the interest of the selected Member States, perhaps even selected companies on the Community market of the European Union. We have definitely criticised this action. That is why we have taken an interest in the possibility of getting out of this impasse, which appeared a few days ago, already behind the Romanian Presidency. This solution has a price, but I am convinced that the decision of the Polish Ministry of Energy to enter into this process and support the compromise on this matter was the right decision, because only in this way could the legislative process be launched and the responsibility transferred to the other EU institutions which held a position in line with the Polish interest, namely the European Commission and the European Parliament. It happened very quickly. As a result, instead of a legal vacuum in which this vacuum was to develop in particular one infrastructure project, Nord Stream 2, we have a situation where the European Commission can enforce many EU rules, in particular on tariff transparency, on operator transparency, on the transparency of investment costs of this type. And we will, of course, follow these arrangements and demand that the European Commission take advantage of the powers that have been able to secure the revision of the Directive in this draft. However, among these very many praises and words, I would like to point out very strongly in support of the Austrian Presidency's actions, that at the time we were strongly dissatisfied with the completely unjustified impasse, the completely unjustified expectation of new solutions, and even attempts to propose solutions that would mean that the Gas Directive would no longer make any sense, because it would be a law completely empty from the point of view of the added value of this legal system, which we already have agreed in the third package today. The last issue among these pillars, these three thematic pillars of the Austrian Presidency, is external. For obvious reasons Political and geographical The Austrian Presidency attached great importance to engagement, to re-launching the European Union's involvement in the Western Balkans. Poland strongly supported this direction, being the host of the Berlin Process this year. This is an ancillary process, not a strictly EU process, but it is aimed at the activation of the European Union in this region of the world. This was particularly important for us for one strategic reason. It is clear that the impasse as regards accession policy, the impasse as regards the European Union's political engagement in the Western Balkans, is being used by other third countries, which in this way are even invited to be more present there, at the expense of security interests, but also at the expense of the European Union's commercial interests. Because apart from political considerations, there are also commercial considerations, the consideration of the presence of the European Union market in that part of the world, which is, of course, in line with Polish expectations in this matter. The second external aspect, which is important from our point of view, was to heat up the discussion on the Eastern Partnership. We believe that this project, which has been implemented in different countries to varying degrees... Some countries themselves considered that they did not want to participate in this process, some of the countries to which this proposal was addressed, were blocked by third-party forces on the way to achieving those objectives which are related to the Eastern Partnership. We believe that the 10th anniversary of this political project, which falls this year, should serve to ensure that the Eastern Partnership gets a new dimension, regains its momentum and that it is again an attractive reference point for all countries east of Central Europe, east of Poland, because today it is the only instrument that we have in our hand as the European Union. Events in the Azov Sea only confirmed the validity of this approach. The European Union cannot afford to turn its back on the Eastern Neighbourhood, because it will immediately be used by competitive forces, strategically competitive towards Europe, which is of course of great importance to us. We understand the need to balance these goals and objectives in the south, in our southern neighbourhood, which is not so close to us, but is a neighbourhood of the European Union. However, we pay attention to what we have always paid attention to so far. The balance is simply needed here. We have completely different challenges in terms of security, political stability in the east and the south. Both can only be dealt with together. These are the most important issues for the six months I would like to draw your attention to. Of course, a very detailed, detailed report on this matter was submitted to the Sejm and the Senate. There you can find references to all the most retail elements of the political processes that are ongoing in the European Union. Now there's no time to discuss it. I drew attention to those which, in my opinion, belonged to the most important ones, in which Poland participated actively, where we see important interests of our own that encourage us to support progress in these matters. As you can see from this few information, processes in the European Union take a very long time. It takes a lot of patience to look forward to the end of many of these trials. But, as you can see, some of them end well if they remain patient. And I hope that many of these things that I have been talking about will soon be completed, as happened in the case of the Gas Directive.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question about this information? Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Should I stand here?]] [[Yes, yes, Minister.]] Minister, I would like to ask you about an intergovernmental consultation in December. r. between the government of Poland and the government of the Kingdom of Britain. During the Prime Minister's interview with Prime Minister May, the Prime Minister assured that the rights of Poles living in the UK And we're talking about about about 1 million people. Even with the toughest solution, and we know that in January the British Parliament refused to sign the agreement, all these acquired rights will be respected. But at the same time the Prime Minister called, invited all Poles to return to Poland. I would like to ask if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is conducting monitoring, some research, an analysis of what part of Poles, Polish diaspora in the UK is interested in returning or taking some action to return to Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u11	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u12	Intergovernmental consultations between Poland and Great Britain are already a new tradition. That wasn't the first time they've seen it. These were essentially bilateral issues, in particular foreign policy and defence policy. Poland has been connected with the United Kingdom's defence treaty recently and Brexit issues, although the most visible, of course, were not the centre of these consultations, because these matters must be negotiated and handled on the EU table until the very end of this process. There is no doubt that the Brexit case is being investigated by the EU 27. However, given the growing likelihood that the agreement, which gives a full range of international rights and guarantees on the protection of Poles, the protection of acquired rights... Because we are talking about Poles who are already on the Islands or will be on the Islands until the exit date, which is until 29 March. These issues were, of course, a very important part of the discussion. I think that we have a very good agreement on this, because, in fact, given the prospect of the collapse of this agreement, both parties have publicly stated on several occasions that if the agreement does not enter into force, they will re-create the exact same extent of protection of rights under national law. We're ready for this, too. Act on this matter prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, addressed to citizens of Great Britain residing in Poland Of course, this is a disproportionately smaller group, which is in the middle of an intergovernmental consultation. It is about fulfilling symmetrical commitments, as well as having a political argument that we are loyal to this matter. We are particularly interested in this matter due to the scale of this phenomenon, the scale of Polish migration in the UK. And there's no doubt that theresa may's government is willing to do this in good faith. I hope that the possible collapse of the agreement will not result in some unpredictable political process in Parliament, because we must remember that the restoration of this scope of protection of rights will require the adoption of laws. Many of them have already been prepared, and some of the elements in terms of legalization of stays are already being implemented. This is a very friendly and easy-to-use procedure for all EU citizens 27 who would like to confirm their legal status after 29 March. It's happening. Recently, the UK Government has declared that it will also abolish administrative charges. This is not a trivial thing, because these fees in the case of multi-child families could have been an important part of the burden on the household budget. So we also appreciate such gestures. We want to play them symmetrically, of course. On the other hand, regarding return policy, of course, this is entirely our case. Apart from the fact that we are determined to defend the rights of Poles in the world in any situation, we are determined, in particular at this very difficult time, to seek to ensure that the whole range of rights acquired under the EU system, i.e. very generously offered rights, because the EU system assumes very wide access not only to the right to stay, but also to public services, to benefits, including the export of benefits... This is an extremely generous system. We believe that restoring the same system under national law is an honest solution because citizens should not feel any negative consequences for this political decision of the British people. I think we're very clear on that. At the same time, we are also convinced that, in addition to the fact that migration is the realization of the right of every citizen to travel, to change their place of residence, to change jobs, to find the most optimal life scenario, also beyond borders, it is a huge loss for the country, because migration causes us to get rid of the most active, mostly productive, working and paying citizens' taxes. And it would be best. Not because of any negative factors in the Islands, but because of the positive considerations, because it is worth living in Poland to use this moment to reflect on whether or not to return to the country. Poland will always stress that from our point of view the best solution would be for Poles to simply return, not only from the UK, but also from every corner, because the social and economic loss associated with immigration, which took place after 2004, is a significant loss and this is a very negative factor. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u14	That was my last question. Does the Ministry have any analysis, any surveillance on their willingness to return? What's the scale? Do we even have any knowledge on this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u15	Economic resorts are watching this movement. Of course, we have seen a decrease in the last two years in the willingness to leave, the readiness to leave, but this may be related to other factors. I think that the openness of the British market is changing and this may be relevant to these decisions. We're watching insignificant movements when it comes to returns. I don't know if they're gonna get worse when everyone finds out that Brexit or the worst-case scenario, hard Brexit becomes a fact and the situation really changes in a bad direction from a different point of view than citizens' rights, of course. It's very difficult to judge. Paying expectations of people who function for several years e.g. on the British market, they are, of course, relatively high, so the first choice in the case of the decision to leave the Islands does not have to be Poland, only other countries With similar rates, countries that can meet these wage expectations. So it's such a simple mechanism that changing the situation in the islands will bring about a return to the country, there isn't. This could be a transfer to another European Union country that can satisfy, as I say, relatively higher wage expectations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u16	Thank you very much. You're Marshal Michael Sewerinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u17	Minister, does the Gas Directive as it stands give the European Union the opportunity to block Nord Stream 2's investment?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u18	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u19	The concept of blocking has been accompanied by discussions on this project from the outset, but it was a publicist concept, because the directive was not intended to introduce legal rules that would prohibit such or other investment, even in a pure form, even at the very beginning, in the form proposed by the European Commission. The introduction of rules on market openness, tariff transparency, transparency of management makes such investments less attractive, at least for some investors, those not used to operating on the open market, which is regulated by an independent regulator, etc. I am thinking in particular of one partner of this undertaking, who is used to working in a very strong relationship with political power, state authority, without overly worrying about what is happening with regard to the legal regime, which is to regulate this type of action. Thus, a blockage in the strict sense of the word could never be said. The purpose of this directive, as proposed by the Commission, but also as agreed at Council and later by the Council and Parliament, was to establish the largest catalogue of legal commitments that would make this investment more transparent. This is of paramount importance, because the transparency of tariffs, which concerns costs, concerning operatorship, simply causes this investment to fail to play a role which, I believe, was planned for it, i.e. a role which would give a privileged position to the selected Member States of the European Union in the gas market. We want the gas market, in line with the dozens of documents that we have adopted in the European Union, to be a transparent, competitive market, to be a customer market, not a supplier of this fuel. Of course, the adoption of this directive in one or another version does not change our view of the investment itself. We believe that building the gas market in the European Union in this way is a bad idea. We believe that the degree of dependence of selected Member States It doesn't apply so much to Poland, not so critically. It is too high for one supplier, and therefore increasing this dependence is dangerous, in particular because we are dealing with a supplier who does not in principle conceal the political goals and political sense of selling fossil fuels for a market such as the European Union. So that does not change the strategic assessment in any way. However, as far as these instruments are concerned, which the Union can have at all, this is an important step forward, because the European Commission is not only able to examine, assess possible intergovernmental agreements, but can also account for, for example. German regulator, like Polish or Dutch, of each regulator, from the way in which the standards of EU law are implemented. There were such cases in this particular context, it was so that the German operator lost to Poland. Relatively recently, a year and a half ago, the German gas operator lost the process with Poland before the Court of Justice of the European Union on the basis of incorrect implementation of EU law standards. This is, of course, an absolute last resort, but at a time when the EU law regime is being implemented in the case of this investment, such opportunities arise. These are opportunities for the European Commission, as a last resort for the Court of Justice. In this sense, This is a clear progress, because the alternative was a total legal vacuum, and the promoters of this project wanted this legal vacuum to continue so that nothing would change in this case. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u20	Thank you very much. Your Marshal, Mr. Underneath. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u21	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, part of my question was exposed by Senator Rybicki, but I'm gonna pull that thread. What if the brexite fails, i.e. If the British do not agree with the European Union on their expectations on the part of the Union, what will happen to Polish citizens? They're most afraid of losing their jobs. Are these legitimate concerns? Because, as you know, work doesn't always come from the state. They are often private employers. Are these concerns justified?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u22	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u23	The freedom to conclude contracts on the labour market will be as it was, so all random events related to the fact that someone can't find a job because there is no job for him will remain the way they were. However, I do not expect that, even in the worst case scenario, there will be a situation where EU citizens in the 27 countries would have difficult access to the labour market. Of course, we're talking about people who will be on the islands before March 29th and get confirmation of this established status, settled status. It's already going on. I do not expect any obstacles to the availability of the labour market in this respect, i.e. the legal possibility of taking up work. Of course, this does not affect contractual freedom in any way. As regards the legal status of Poles in terms of the availability of the labour market, the availability of social benefits, nothing should happen here. Of course, this does not mean that the issue is neutral, because the international legal guarantee is much better than the statutory guarantee. The guarantee from the international agreement is better than the legal one, as the legal one can be amended at any time. However, I have no doubt that the British Government is willing to comply with the declaration. Very clear, unconditional declarations On the possible replacement of the same scope of rights for EU citizens 27 in the event that the agreement does not enter into force.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u24	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, in this information there is indeed much about the combatability of Polish politics... of Polish presence, I apologize. In the European Union, there is less talk about what Poland brings to the European Union as a community. I'd say And in my questions, I want to show you that. That we're not an integrator, or rather we're the one who represents business, as some say, selfish. I don't always share that view. And the first question. Isn't it appropriate that, at a time of difficult negotiations, it takes almost one minute per minute Poland's right of state presented by the government and the President undermines the mandate of President of the Council of the European Union, Mr Tusk? It's from him. Of course, the extent to which the Polish interest will be integrated into the European Union, as it will be sold and recognised, depends on others. Meanwhile, we're dealing with weakness, which is... I can say directly, as a trade union negotiator: this is a strengthening of the position of the British, especially those who want to come out of the Union. The second question is, as if it were related to it. Is it appropriate that at the moment when... You're talking about the arms market, the science market as a second important issue. As you have rightly stated, this is a difficult market. At the same time, these difficult integration measures are being undermined today by the demonstration of the signing of agreements with the United States. In addition, they believe that this is not just a disintegration action towards the European Union, but it is an effort to weaken the defence potential of the European Union's countries... It is expanding, Minister, not only to buy weapons, because in the wake of weapons purchases, so to speak, companies, capital in Europe, people are wandering. However, in the American solution there is no offset, not even what was in the case of F-16; planes painted in Bydgoszcz, etc. The third issue is the future. Brexit will be, as I hear it, either as a plague or as hell, spread over time. Is the government prepared for what's gonna happen after any brexite? Will our relations with Great Britain, lively, for many years, especially trade, be maintained at the right level? Is there gonna be a two-way deal?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u26	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u27	The Member State of the European Union may not conclude bilateral agreements with a third country. Trade policy is a Community policy, so there can be no accounting that would be based on some special trade status between a third country, e.g. Great Britain and a Member State of the European Union. This is done by the European Commission for us. And when it comes to preparing the government for an unconventional brexite, they are on very many plans. The first issue is legislative change. Legislative changes are needed in some cases. They are already being prepared to reduce the cost of dredging, in particular as regards trade. However, the most important thing is that we have been in close contact with the European Commission's working group for several months. Recently, the delegation of the European Commission was also in Warsaw on this issue. I think we are successfully presenting what action the European Commission should take as soon as possible. For the whole of the Union, not only for Poland. As regards the type of accessibility of the road transport market, the Regulation is already designed and notified. It has been improved by Poland in such a way that this availability is based on the principle of symmetry, that it also concerns cross-trade operations, such a phase-out of the availability of cabotage operations, as well as personal transport. The same applies to a separate air transport regulation. Here too, inaction on the part of the European Union could cause the United Kingdom to have open sky status as a third country. This would result in a breakdown of air traffic between Great Britain and the continent, which, under these conditions, with this intensity of social and economic exchange, would be a disaster. It seems that we can say today that 100% We'll avoid this problem. The same applies to maintaining the validity of sanitary and phytosanitary certificates which are necessary to maintain as such a flow... This will not be the same flow as it was on the Community market in the customs union But we want to keep the flow of goods as smoothly as possible where such certificates of admission are needed. We also have a whole list of organizational issues. It's not legislative anymore, it's organizational. Take, for example. strengthening veterinary services, in particular in ports, which are responsible for international trade in products of animal origin. It's about Gdansk, Gdynia, Szczecin and Okęcie. It will be necessary to strengthen the Customs Service, because the unconventional Brexit will mean that we will have to carry out checks. However, regardless of the tariffs, these checks will be necessary if it turns out that there is no contract. I think we have a very coherent plan in all these fields, and it is based on the principle of division of tasks. We would prefer that certain issues, in particular those of the citizen, such as: coordination of social benefits has not been left to the Member States since there is no point in making such fragmentation of the whole EU system by duplication of 27 bilateral agreements. This should be one agreement, the Union of the United Kingdom, which duplicates the main principles that apply today, at least to the citizens who are on the Islands today. Well, the future rules of migration policy are unknown to us, they will be completely independent of anyone, they will only be adopted in London, depending on the political choices that will be made by the parliamentary majority. But when it comes to people who are in this system today, who, for example. For X years they have paid pension and health contributions, this is the area for action, at least for unilateral actions that are already planned, although it would be optimal if a contract was simply concluded after the brexite. So all these things are, so to speak, mapped. We've been working on a project, a plan for a contractless brexite for over a year. I remember well the beginning of this work, when most people thought it was purely theoretical, rather a waste of time. This was the case both in the administration and in the private business. And tonight, everyone's gonna admit it's gonna be necessary. These are actions in many fields. Financial, organisational, legislative, action at national and EU level. I think we are in this group of EU countries that are well prepared for this. As for the national and European interests, we have talked relatively much about the Gas Directive. This is a very good example. Poland defended the European interest, European solutions, while a relatively large group of countries defended, unfortunately effectively, the narrow, selfish interest... Well, not to say, the business of a few companies. So the fact that Poland is always focused on itself, and others focus exclusively on altruistic visions of common interest, is, I would say, a fairytale reality. As for the role of President Tusk and the possible undermining of his mandate, as you have said, I would like to say very clearly: Poland in the EU institutions is represented by the government and ministers. Of course, we would very much like President Tusk, because of his passport, to be of the utmost help to the various Polish affairs, views, interests. We don't always feel it as much as we want. And about the brexite you brought up. I didn't want to move her. President Tusk's speeches, comments and tweets are simply irresponsible. They're not in agreement. [[Applause]] [[I'm just gonna add to the question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u28	Excuse me, sir, did the Minister finish his statement? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yes.]] Yes? Thank you. Do you want to ask, Senator? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u29	Indeed, the Minister describes the one-sided position of Brexit in a broad way here. The truth is, they cut us off. The question to you is, is it because of those who, as I say, parley behind the Brexit, will suffer losses, as you say, economical, organizational, and Poland will win on American gas, or is it the other way around?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u30	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u31	You combine issues that are difficult to connect... [[But no, no...]] ...but I'll try to answer that. I'll try to answer that. [[But the alternative is...]] The role of American gas... [[And, I'm sorry, but if it's the right thing to do...]] [[Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u32	Well, to ask you a question... If you consider that this is, of course, political interference that Brexit is a political game, isn't PGNiG supporting Ukraine on behalf of the Polish government a political game?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u33	You're welcome, Minister. Are you gonna say anything...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u34	These are mysterious remarks, but I'll try to answer them somehow. There is certainly great political potential for gas trafficking in Europe, particularly in our part of Europe. This is the reason why we want to move this trade towards simply market rules, open, transparent, so that this political potential of trading in this fuel, one of the many fuels that should not have such a political significance, would reduce. The market serves that purpose. That is why we want market declarations to go to market law and that this right is enforced against everyone. This is not a very popular view in the European Union. And here, as I say, it is not that Poland is acting on behalf of narrow, selfish interests, actually opposed to the European interest, which consists in the effective, consistent introduction of market rules on this market. The development of the LNG market, which is closely linked to contracts for the import of Qatari, American or any other gas, is a technical breakthrough allowing the transport of this fuel to be independent of investments such as pipelines. This has a huge strategic significance, because perhaps this time will come. Maybe it'll be in our lives. When the gas pipelines aren't needed. This would be very good news, especially for those who would prefer to operate simply on the gas market as it should be, and for geographical reasons and due to some political decline after years of strict dependence on the Soviet Union, this is difficult. LNG has it right here. Colossal meaning. So, yes, of course, for political reasons as well, for security reasons Poland will consistently carry out the process which started and is very advanced, so that on the Polish gas market there is fuel from different sides, possibly in equal proportions. This, of course, involves a very active PGNiG policy in the gas market, seeking the availability of gas from all sides, not only within LNG, but also within the framework of a very advanced Baltic Pipe investment. I think the reasons, not only economic, but also political, are obvious. So I'm a little surprised you're looking for a hole all over here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I have two specific questions about the defence sphere in general. The first concerns the European Defence Fund. You said you would be able to participate in the Polish Armoury Group. But from this information, it's supposed to be international industrial consortia. Did PGZ as a company and not as a consortium, that is, a company associated with someone else... Will she be able to participate in this? And is it... Because already at the turn of January and February, work on specifics was to be completed in relation to this period 2019.2020. Is there anything in particular yet? The second question concerns the programme or the Connecting Europe Facility. It is about adapting transport infrastructure to military purposes and possible money for this. Question is, is it clear how much money is gonna be there? As for the previous issue, I also ask if there are more or less known financial volumes. About the second point: are we prepared for this? Shouldn't we change our legislation when it comes to adapting infrastructure to the needs of military transport?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u37	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u38	Military mobility is the main focus of our interest when it comes to enhanced, structured PESCO cooperation. This is a project that we identify as a project consistent with national planning and NATO-Wskie planning as regards the security zone. Within the PESCO framework, as we have declared from the beginning, we will only choose those projects that are consistent with NATO logic and not the projects that are next to it. Let's hope they don't show up, that they won't be implemented. We pay very close attention to this. As regards Connecting Europe, Poland is one of the main beneficiaries of this financial instrument both in terms of transport and energy infrastructure. We want to continue. Today we do not know how much money will be placed in envelopes, because we are at the very beginning of the process, which will be somewhat bumpy, will be difficult. I mentioned that. We note that among the 9 transport corridors identified in the European Union, 5 corridors concern the countries of the Trimar. This raises our highest interest, because we see here the synergy of EU projects with a project called the Tri-Moor. As far as the defence fund is concerned, negotiating the rules of its operation only applies to the opening of doors. Those aren't commitments. We wanted to ensure from the beginning that for smaller companies such as PGZ, this is just an example; it is not the only such company, but, I think, the important door was opened so that the fund would not be built in such a way that only the biggest ones could cooperate with it, because it would result in even more monopolization of the market, which we want to avoid. How? PGZ will come to this, depends on independent business decisions, perhaps also owners, which are outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. From the point of view of negotiating the rules, it's about just being able to be. And whether or not they will be used is a separate matter. This depends on the specific strategic decisions of MON and PGZ. Today, such opportunities are provided. It's hard to talk about the sums today, too. In the Commission's view, the fund is to be heavily financed. We do not in principle oppose this, but much depends on balance in other parts of the budget. As long as we do not have a balance at all points of the budget, we will not be able to talk about agreeing on anything. Everything must be negotiated so that everything is accepted, but in principle we do not oppose this direction. We just need to find a way to prevent this from happening at the expense of politicians that are no less important to us than maybe more important to us. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u39	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u40	One more question. It's my second question, the question of availability of transport for military purposes. I also asked about adapting our legislation, our regulations, e.g. in the broad sense of construction law, to military requirements. Are we prepared for this? Can we reach for the money that will eventually appear with the appropriate guidelines, with the right to do so? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: I assume...]] Maybe it's too broad a question. I don't know if I'm making myself clear. It's just that we're gonna...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u41	Yes, yes, I understand the question. I assume that the MON decisions to join the PESCO military mobility programme were linked to the fact that we have the capacity to implement the programme's objectives. I don't know the issues that could create collisions under the building law you're talking about. I assume that the political decisions of the MON have a proper basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, would you kindly remind me of how the Austrian Presidency leaned on the problem, very much in the world and in Europe known for its smuggling of persons and illegal migration. And my second question, Minister. How has the Austrian Presidency dealt with the cybersecurity problem? 'Cause it's pretty bearable in the world today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u44	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u45	All those things I've been paying attention to. This is the legislative progress towards strengthening the mandate of ENISA, the issue of cybersecurity, issues relating to the availability of ECRIS, the issue of criminal records, the flow of information in VIS, SIS, Eurodac and in principle serve that purpose. Right? Because they are supposed to show that crossing the external border of the European Union shows us some pathologies, and the system is able to identify where they are. Strengthening the mandate of the European Border and Coast Guard to cooperate with third countries and return policy is closely linked to illegal migration. So I think it was one of the political priorities of the new government in Austria and this priority was implemented very reliably. However, most of these processes are not completed, but in those areas you were talking about... E.g. The ESGiP issue is very advanced It no longer raises any controversy and has been prepared for legislative approval. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u47	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. As far as memory serves me, at the end of last year in the European Parliament there was an accepted declaration, a position, a resolution... I do not remember at the moment what was the status of this document, concerning the European Commission's commitment to developing a mechanism that would in future involve lending EU funds to Member States with respect to the rule of law in those countries. Is the Minister familiar with this document? What is the position of the Polish Government towards this document? Especially since no one in Europe has developed such a universal definition of what the rule of law is, what it means. What is the evaluation of this type of action in the European Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u48	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u49	Parliament responded to the European Commission's initial proposals in this area. They are included in the regulation, which in 4/5 refers to issues that we absolutely support, i.e. the issue of greater reliability in the fight against fraud in the field of EU spending. Here we have OLAF-type instruments. They're pretty effective. Every now and then, we hear about various investigations in this case. They usually do not apply to Poland, Poland has a very good indicator when it comes to the way money is spent. By force, we spend a lot of money, in particular cohesion money, we spend more than average, and the indicator, in terms of non-abuse, the percentage of the entire money quantum is well below the EU average. If in the Union someone wants to strengthen control mechanisms or anti-fraud mechanisms, he has full Polish support. But there is one element attached to this regulation that is loosely linked to the legal basis for the protection of the European Union's financial interests. The Treaty is very clear in this respect. An element that is extremely undefined is included, and this raises quite serious controversy about reference to rules, among others. The rule of law. The decision-making mechanism on this issue is also extremely obscure, as it also refers to opinions, such as non-governmental organisations, which, it seems, is extremely unpredictable, because we have a whole range of non-governmental organisations that can And you're right. Whatever they want to say, whatever it is they want to talk about. Right? Thus, it seems that this is not a decision-making system which provides legal guarantees, guarantees of rights in this case by the Member States, because each of the parties, in some respects due to the rule of law, should have guarantees of rights in the decision-making system. The ambiguity and ambiguity of these criteria is one of the reasons why the Council's legal services have expressed themselves negatively against this proposal, in principle repeating the arguments we have been making since the beginning. The European Court of Auditors has also been negative in this case, using about the same argument that, of course, the intention is very noble, but it sees here a very serious problem relating to how, on the basis of which criteria, the conditions for such decisions would be taken, which would have the effect of limiting the Member States' rights under the Treaty. Well, this is pretty serious. Right? Bringing this type of process into purely bureaucratic processes is, as it seems, unacceptable. Of course, we are in the process of working, this is one of the essential components of the entire WRF package. As I say, we do not oppose better control of financial interests, but this must be done on the basis of objective criteria, and the decision-making process must assume the protection of everyone's rights in this area. This element of the regulation is clearly meant to be a political order in order to show zeal in a case which has nothing to do with the financial interests of the European Union, because it is precisely about a country which has, in this respect, the best possible paper.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u50	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u51	Good morning. Minister, I have a question about the energy market in Europe. As Europe imposes further climate commitments called ideological commitments, it is no longer self-sufficient in the field of energy. It's a matter of parameters. Europe brings together e.g. fossil fuels he doesn't want to extract, and those fossil fuels he brings back from Russia, for example, he burns in his power plants. At the same time, Member States are prevented from purchasing energy directly from non-European countries, e.g. Poland from Ukraine. That's the first question. Well, I guess that's a little inconsistent. Right? Well, fossil fuels, yes, we can buy, and pure energy isn't. So what's it like? That's the first question. The second question is completely different. This is a question of schools in Ukraine, or more specifically: prohibition of education in non-Ukrainian languages. It's not just the Polish schools, because there aren't enough of them. I think there's 3 of them. It is mainly about Hungarian schools, also about Slovak schools. Is it because this is a problem for many European countries, that Europe is discussing with Ukraine in this context, or is it not too much?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u52	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u53	When it comes to climate, it's been us for a long time. I think that since the beginning of Poland's membership of the European Union, we have noted a certain inadequacy of climate policy in relation to the situation of many countries, among others. Polish. In a situation we've inherited... This isn't the situation we've created ourselves. We inherited an energy system that can't be changed overnight, even if we wanted to. Thus, these mechanisms, which are applied to the energy market, are extremely expensive for some countries, including Poland, which is why Poland constantly opposes such solutions. We draw attention to the fact that climate policy should be implemented in a spirit of flexibility, so that each country can choose the instruments of certain environmental or environmental savings which are most cost-effective for it. Climate policy is built so that there is one scenario for all Literally for each of the countries of the European Union This makes some countries pay more, which is politically unacceptable. We are currently discussing This is the beginning of the discussion on the new long-term strategy of the European Union on this issue. We have made a clear reference to the first European Council documents that these new plans must be based on national energy and climate plans. The Polish Ministry of Energy presented such a national energy and climate plan, which is adapted to Polish realities and which reduces the costs of this type of policy. Let's see what happens. We're at the beginning of this process. However, as I say, here the conflict of interest exists from the very beginning of Polish membership and I fear that it will not cease. This makes it very difficult to invest in any energy source in the European Union today. Firstly, due to the volatility of the regulation, secondly, due to the very strong preference of renewable sources. This also means that Member States are forced to solve problems that they have created themselves. The solutions to these problems are compensation schemes that we are dealing with in some wealthy Western countries, such as: Germany. Well, it's about solving problems with high energy prices, problems that have created themselves. Thus, the energy-intensive industry has a very limited competitive position in Europe. No one seems to be able to say that the entire energy-intensive industries should move out of Europe because it will build our dependence on external suppliers. This in turn makes no sense from an environmental point of view, because the same energy-intensive activity that will be carried out somewhere in other jurisdictions is likely to have much more serious environmental impacts and the environment is one. So whether emissions occur here or there, behind one border or across the other, doesn't matter at all. The environmental impact is negative. So Europe should also not, for environmental reasons, depend on the production of glass, steel, paper to export somewhere further, because it will be more environmentally annoying, which would be contrary to the objectives of this policy, which is supposedly intended to protect the environment, protect the climate, etc. This is a permanent point of dispute. Poland succeeded in the negotiations concerning the so-called. The winter package introduces solutions that will protect at least the functioning of this support system, which we decided on in 2016, i.e. the power market built by the Ministry of Energy in Poland, which could initially not fit into the regulations planned by the European Commission. We are now one step away from adopting these elements, in particular the Regulation on support schemes, including power markets. This regulation has been completely cleaned by the Ministry of Energy, it is safe from a Polish point of view. However, this does not change the fact that energy prices in the European Union are also rising due to very far-reaching climate or environmental mechanisms. The issue of education in Ukraine is a completely different issue. The legislative changes that have been adopted in Ukraine are, of course, aimed at limiting enclaves in which the only language that is socially functioning and taught is Russian. It has enormous consequences for the security of this country, and it also has to do with the inherited situation of a certain Russian colonization in that place. So Ukraine has full political reasons to look for a solution to this problem, especially after the experience of war. From a European point of view, we belong to those countries which point out that the side effect of these activities, which we do not question, is to restrict minority rights in one or another scale. It doesn't matter so much, because it's a question of principle, not scale. First and foremost Hungarian, Slovak and Polish. However, we would not want to escalate this problem completely out of control, because we would not want it to have any strategic consequences, which could be the case. In any case, the Ukrainian party knows that it must do something about this problem, because it cannot be that the side effect of these changes is the limits of completely due non-controversial rights of minorities living in Ukraine, mentioned by your senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u55	Minister, you have made it sufficiently clear that the result of the Brexit will be either a reduction in the contribution or a cessation of the contribution by the United Kingdom, the result of this hard brexite, without a contract. Tell me what this contribution is going to be, how much is it going to be? It could be a contribution. Is this going to be a contribution for 2 years, which is 2019 and 2020 or just for 2020? And how much of that contribution We're getting what we're gonna lose? That's the first question. And the second question is rhetorical. Since you said that the tweets of the President of the Council of Donald Tusk on the subject of Great Britain are irresponsible, tell me whether it is responsible for the Polish authorities, including the government, to question Donald Tusk's position in the Council of the European Union. [[He double-crossed himself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u56	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u57	As far as the UK's commitments are concerned, they need to be divided into those that are confirmed in the exit agreement and for which there is no controversy between us and the British party today... These are the obligations arising from Britain's membership of the European Union for 40 years, including during the negotiation period of the multiannual financial framework, which will be in force until 2020 and will be settled by 2023. The exit agreement guarantees the smooth implementation of all UK obligations arising from the fact that the United Kingdom was a party to this agreement, which is an agreement on the multiannual financial framework. If the agreement enters into force, there will be no controversy. on the fact that the liquidity of the Union budget will not be affected during this period. The UK Party does not contest the validity of its financial commitments. They are accounted for in very different ways, because the structure of the multiannual financial framework is quite complicated and refers, as I say, to commitments, payments that can be settled until 2023, but also to commitments that are settled much, much later, for example. commitments such as the financing of pensions of European Union officials in the future. So these commitments in some minimal but real part will last even longer. Everywhere we talk about the obligations of the UK party's decision. These are not imposed costs of the Brexit process in any way. This is a very well described map of commitments that we have agreed are important, valid after Britain leaves the European Union. However, for obvious reasons, the UK will not be part of the multiannual financial framework after 2020. As a result, the budget of the European Union will be reduced by approximately... This varies from one year to another because the contribution varies, but this budget will be reduced by up to EUR 11 billion per year. This is an objective factor of enormous importance to the shape of the budget, which will make the budget of the European Union less generous for all. Poland can feel it more because Poland is a net beneficiary of the budget, and these losses of funding will be more visible in those countries which are net beneficiaries of the budget. This is an objective factor, because of which the new multiannual financial framework will have to be less generous to Poland. This will simply result from the fact that a very large amount of money will disappear from this balance sheet. These are simply objective considerations. As far as the role of President Tusk is concerned, I think that he can always count on a very meaningful position of the Polish government and a meaningful cooperation of the Polish government in all cases when he is ready to do so. However, I would like to stress that Polish interests and Polish presence in the European Union are implemented through the presence of the Prime Minister in the European Council and Ministers in the Council of the European Union, as are the interests of any other country. We only require President Tusk to refer in a factual way to the right, views, interests, including Poland. We don't require anything out of the ordinary.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u58	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u59	Minister, to my question of undermining the mandate of President Tusk, you have responded very effectively, with a general applause of half the room. I'm not gonna applaud you. But I would like to ask, Minister, how was the speech made by the President in Leżajsk last year, so at a time of difficult negotiations, that the European Community is an imaginary creation. That's the first question. [[Voice from the room: An imaginary community.]] Yeah, an imaginary community. Second question. How is it accepted in the European Union that Minister for Foreign Affairs Czaputowicz gladly signed the Denuklearisation Agreement and on arms control in Iran, and at the same time we are now holding a specific hucka against Europe or at least with its absenteeism? And the third question. Great Britain used, I'd say, a kind of... I forgot the word... [[Voice from the room: Rabatu.]] ...from a discount of £1 billion on account of agricultural policy, as I recall. We have problems, and these problems are going to get bigger, because the British market is going to be harder, and it can't be hidden. Question: Did you negotiate, or did you make a commitment to take over this part or all of the discount for our agriculture, our peasants?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u60	Thank you. There you go... [[Well, take over because you're shuddering...]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: So...]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[...to give Europe some of this to the Polish peasant. The trial is going on...]] Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u61	This is a very ambitious idea. We need to think about it, figure out how to do it, get the British discount out of this table and give it away. [[Voice from the hall:...Naturally from the Ministry...]] Maybe, maybe it's a good idea for these negotiations because they're hard, so they need unconventional ideas. They can be helpful in getting out of the negotiating wedges we expect. So maybe we can use this support. For today I can say that Poland, a few months ago, in the discussion on the European Union's new own resources, i.e. in the debate on the financing of the European Union's budget, presented, I think, a very clear position that if someone wants to pursue new, very ambitious and costly objectives in the European Union, he must present where he will get the money from which he wants to finance these objectives, and therefore must demonstrate his willingness to raise his contribution. That's one thing. Poland has such readiness, for obvious reasons. These countries, which promote a radical increase in migration and defence expenditure, clearly have no such capacity, as they speak out loud. This seems to be an inconsistency. In every parliament, when we talk about the budget, when someone presents a very bright, meaningful, very promising goal, they have to show what they're going to finance it with. Right? We don't have that consequence here. Many countries are offering us spectacular ideas without funding. Secondly, Prime Minister Morawiecki, at the European Council, made it very clear that discounts should be abolished not only in the case of the UK, which is leaving, but in the case of all the countries that benefit from the discount system, because today this system has no longer any justification. We will see how the individual countries that I believe will react to this, suspect that they are guided by absolutely altruistic European dreams. I am afraid that in this case they will react in an inconvenient way to this kind of altruistic pro-European dream and will want to keep unjustified discounts, which actually create difficulties in financing the multiannual financial framework. Thirdly, we are open to discussing other own resources, but provided that the burden of these own resources is spread evenly between Member States. Today, the European Commission has presented three models of own resources, types of European tax, because that is what this is all about. All 3 concepts assume that more will be paid by poorer countries, which is, I must say, quite a special idea, to say the least. This really is an extravagant idea for me to say to propose a system that would cause more burden per capita or per GDP in Poland than in the Netherlands. Well, it seems that in this way we will not build a system of own resources of the European Union, which will gain the support of all countries and which will have the principle of a certain honesty sewn up in it. These are rather sham actions. [[I didn't get all the answers, especially to the first one, to this position, to the President's statement on...]] I have not had the opportunity to talk about this speech, and also other speeches that fall into spontaneous debates about the future of the Union, the state of the Union, what we think in the Union... [[I don't understand why...]] ...in literally all the capitals of the Member States of the European Union. If you had ever gone to the Dutch Parliament, you would have heard many bitter words about the European Union. Poland is no exception here. We are no exception when we say that sometimes we feel that this community does not work as it should. [[The saying was, it doesn't make any sense at all.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] No, it never happened. I don't think you have grounds for that kind of suspicion. In particular, after having heard more than two hours of information about Polish policy under the Austrian Presidency, it seems that the grounds for such hypotheses are quite mediocre.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u62	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Now two general questions. The first one on the brexite case. Well, I think that, like the European Commission, some high-level European officials judge us, so we have the right to judge them. I think what's happening right now is the British Government's connection. The representatives of the European Commission, or at least some of its senior officials, are simply scandalous. I don't judge words, tweets, any celebrity watering squirts, I judge the facts. How did the European Commission and its officials fail to reach an agreement with the United Kingdom? Because the fact is, the fact that was negotiated was not accepted by the British Parliament. And now I don't know... Moving on to the agenda, waiting for a tough Brexit, making European societies angry, bringing them to a state I don't know how it's gonna end, we're gonna see it in practice. The threat to the European economy is, I believe, simply irresponsible. Replacing effective negotiations and possible agreements with statements on Twitter or in the Internet domain is simply a behaviour rather consistent, I don't know, with the psyche of a teenager, not a responsible politician. I'd ask you to respond to that. The second question concerns an even more general question. We are currently faced with a rivalry of 2 views on the further development of the European Union. One is talking about deepening integration. Agreements are already signed between e.g. Germany and France. And the second one is talking about Europe's homelands, which is in a sense about retreating to the sources of European integration. The question is this: is this second view on Europe of homelands already, I would say, legally processed, treatyally? Are there any think tanks or places in the Union itself that are starting to deal with this concept? The idea is to be able to describe the exact course, the path that the European Union should go through in this second concept in order simply to become an economically viable organism and, once it has returned to sources also accepted by society. We see what's happening now when it comes to voting. We will see what the next vote will look like for the European Parliament. A simple question: do we already have an idea of how to build the European Union in the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u64	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u65	The second question is at the seminar because here we do not have a very simple choice between communityism and the restoration of power of national states. The European Union is a mixture of all processes. In many processes, Member States still have a leading role to play and do not want to release this competence, particularly in areas such as justice, home affairs, security and defence. These are all areas that are covered by intergovernmental cooperation. The fact that at some point a growing group of countries felt uncomfortable when they could be voted out as a result of action, let's call it Community, is a fact. This is the reason why, without amending the Treaty, but under the Treaty of Lisbon, we are dealing with a real shift of burden on states. This is reflected in more and more frequent meetings of the European Council, where prime ministers meet and more often decide to build conclusions not at the level of generality and some direction, but also to decide on the details of legislation where it is necessary. Well, it is difficult to see more intergovernmentality than just such an activation of the European Council, which is an expression of the intergovernmental dimension of the European Union. As far as Brexit is concerned, I have already expressed my opinion on the various types of public performances and I do not want to go back to them. About the process itself Let us remember that Britain is also not selfless in these negotiations. With all our sympathy for London and all our political conviction that it would be better to do anything to avoid an unconventional brexite, we must remember that the United Kingdom is a party to those negotiations that seek their own interests. We would like to form an exit agreement in such a way that it can survive the vote in the British Parliament, but we cannot do it at all costs. The restrictions we see are already directly linked to the commercial interests of the Polish economy, which is part of the common market and part of the customs union. Therefore, we cannot lead to a situation where the United Kingdom, being a non-EU country, would have any competitive advantages vis-à-vis the EU economy because we are part of it. For essential reasons, we are also very careful about any movement that would result in the disintegration of the common market in the context of a third country. This market is under enormous internal pressure anyway. There are different countries that complain about certain aspects of this market, especially where they lose. And that's the problem. I talked about this on the occasion of impasses when it comes to building a service market or a digital market. We cannot afford to allow ourselves, on the occasion of brexitu, to have some kind of precedent that would show that, in fact, only the things that currently fit us can be chosen from the common market. That would be against our interests, the interests of the country that is part of the common market and part of the customs union. So, in political terms, Poland is definitely proactive when it comes to finding solutions after the ratification crisis. We think it's just a serious fact. It's not just British concern, it's our common concern. The short-term, shallow, unresponsible satisfaction that someone has fallen into political problems is simply irresponsible, and this irresponsibleness is at stake in the economic and commercial interests and security of the whole of Europe. And that's why we're critical of some of the jumps in this case, which, by the way, last a long time. Well, it wasn't just one case. There are more of these cases, which is why we will continue to react in this way to these kinds of jumps. And when it comes to the process itself, we have to remember what I've already said. Issues relating to the competitiveness of the Community market vis-à-vis a third country are very clear. We cannot look for a solution to the problem of uncontractual brexite at all costs, because we are a participant in the common market, the common commercial policy, the customs union, the European Union. Our interests are linked to this part, this side of the negotiating table. At some point, it's just a trade negotiation. They are not political, although they have political consequences. In general, however, it is about very concrete values related to the competitiveness of these two areas. Well, it's gonna be two customs areas in a minute, two commercial areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u66	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u67	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask you to elaborate on what you said in response to my first question. This is the issue of this declaration by the European Parliament on the mechanism for linking the rule of law with EU funds. You mentioned in your reply that there is a political context for this action by the European Parliament. Could you elaborate and comment on what this policy is and what is the mechanism? And then there's the second line. In December, probably in Berlin, there was a conference on the future of the European Union and the media celebrated, among others. This is what Chancellor Merkel said: national states should now be ready to surrender sovereignty. What is the position of the Polish Government in relation to such trends, which were undoubtedly expressed in this way by Chancellor Merkel? Well, it is no secret that Germany is an important country in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u68	Thank you. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u69	Public speeches, such as this, often contain moments, from which it is very easy to draw a quote, which can be understood in various ways. In short, I do not see any political consequences of this appeal by Chancellor Merkel in German politics. Germany is not a country that is ready to surrender sovereignty in matters that are crucial to the German interest. Please note the way in which the euro area budget is discussed, the communion of debt, the joint response to bank debt. The Germans are not willing to talk about it out loud. The North countries, such as the Netherlands, usually speak very loudly on this issue, but for many years, despite the trauma of the debt crisis, we are unable to complete the banking union, we are having difficulty completing the capital union. There is no way to influence in any way the mechanisms for communing responsibility for the public debt of the euro area countries, even though there are very serious arguments of a political nature, and sometimes moral, to do so. This is not a discussion in which we are directly involved, because it is a matter of the euro area. For years, however, there has been a very clear pattern. It is precisely in this area where the interests of the North states, which have no debt problems, would be very limited, none of these countries, even those which have the most pro-European rhetoric for public meetings, show any willingness to do anything about it. Moreover, it was in the German system that this position had been cemented at the level of the constitutional tribunal at least in the case of 2 decisions which, in principle, prevent the transfer of any significant transfers at any time in order to save the euro area, as is often said in public terms. This is the reason for the enormous occupation on the part of the southern states. I think this is also the reason for the political changes we are seeing in the Southern countries that are destabilising the euro area as a whole and the European Union as a whole. This does not change the fact that the countries of the North, including the Federal Republic of Germany, do not tend to abandon sovereignty in this area, very specific, in the name of the European project, in the name of sanctioning, healing the situation in the euro area. So I take this as a political statement that does not bring political consequences at least on the declaring side. If it does, we'll refer to it. With regard to the political context of the emergence of this regulation, which is impressive, as if it were written on another matter, and it was sort of adapted, developed ex post... Such an impression is made by the editorials of these articles It's like they didn't come from one hand. Certainly, the individual elements do not agree with each other, because there is simply an added element related to the rule of law. The context is obvious. This regulation arose after very many months, if not years of persistent dispute over this issue between the European Commission and Poland, a dispute which does not bring any conclusions. This dispute should not be conducted in this way, because it only brings political costs, unnecessary emotions which, I believe, do not serve very well in terms of understanding, trust. We try to control it, keep it where it should be, but political processes are open-minded, so certainly a lot of blood. Everywhere, in all capitals, including Warsaw, it was broken down by this unfortunate political process. This is the political context of this regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u70	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u71	I would like to make two points, two points, Minister. First of all, the case It's on the margins of today's conference. The future of the JCPOA, i.e. the agreements with Iran. How does Polish diplomacy see it at the moment? After all, one of the arguments that we have made, both the ruling party and the opposition, was that this agreement, signed jointly by the American side and the European partners, reduces risk and reduces tension in the region, as is the case with today's conference. It was one-sidedly broken by the United States; it is a sovereign decision of the American Government. Europe stands by these provisions. Minister Chaputowicz spoke in preparation for the conference about the fact that we are on the side of the European Union, but the reality is shattering. What is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs going to do next about JCPOA? What is the future position on this agreement? That's what I'm talking about. That's one thing. Secondly, it is about the issue put forward by our political group in the European Union, the EPP, at the last Congress in Helsinki, namely the aim of creating a European defence union as a distant but existing goal, which has nothing to do with an absurd idea for a European army, with this unrealistic idea. It is a European Union of security and defence. What is the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u72	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u73	I think that Poland and the European Union's position on the JCPOA shows that Poland keeps European unity where it has been defined, where the policy has been established. However, the European Union's policy in this region is very narrowly defined. The JCPOA is one of the few elements that are the subject of the EU's agreed position on this issue, and we do not question that. But we note that the unilateral withdrawal of the United States, which is somehow motivated... Because there are serious arguments behind this conviction. The political assessment of whether this agreement serves stability or not is simply different in Washington, which means that the strength of this agreement is, of course, severely weakened, the attractiveness of this agreement is weakened. We do not object to the politically urging the European Union to encourage Iran to stick to this agreement, but we note that trying to create financial mechanisms whose political sense and consequence would be not only to circumvent US sanctions but also to compensate them is a completely different problem and this is a political problem. We are not convinced that the European Union should do such things because we did not agree to do so. We agreed to promote the JCPOA agreement, and that's all. As for the defence union, if we were to stick to such publicist assessments 'Cause I think the senator used the phrase 'cause it's ridiculous... [[Yeah, ridiculous...]] Yes. Well, on a public level, we can evaluate everything in this way. The defensive Union, how it is sometimes outlined, should European realities be taken into account, could also be considered absurd. This is a descriptive language, and we are focusing today on specific initiatives that appear on the table. Perhaps, from the perspective of far-reaching plans such as defence union, these are indirect issues, because they are certainly not small, but we prefer to deal with specifics such as PESCO, where the Polish presence is growing and will probably be more visible in the coming months. Today we are probably already participating in 8 PESCO projects, we have been active since the beginning of its establishment, or as a defence fund, where we are actively involved in negotiating the rules of operation, or as joint planning. Of course, we have a very clear political position, i.e. We do not want the European Union to build, with such or other justification, any alternative solution to the spine of security that remains and will remain NATO for a long time. Besides, there is nothing to suggest that this is going to change, so we see no reason for limited resources to be placed in places that are non-synergic to NATO. I think that's a pretty well-founded view. We note that strategically this promotion of the European Union in the area of security must address all strategic threats. Not only in the south, where we have very big and objectively serious problems And we've also got a risk of political tilt in that direction. But it must also serve in the east. I think that some countries are less willing to respond adequately to threats in the east. But if these 2 elements are fulfilled In addition to the already operational element, i.e. the availability of money, and if there is to be a lot of money, it is also about our money. This will not prevent Poland from being an active participant and promoter of such solutions. However, these conditions must be met, and if they are not met, we will still have a problem that has persisted in the European Union for about 25 years, and we will not move forward. If we can overcome these problems, we can move on.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u74	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I was very pleased with the information you gave just now, answering one of the questions, i.e. that the government, the Ministry, works closely with Mr Donald Tusk, President of the European Council... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: I didn't say anything like that...]] ...in various matters concerning Poland. So I'd like to ask... We often see in the media that Mr Donald Tusk is meeting with the Prime Minister, the President of this or another European country. That's what the media is reporting. I would therefore like to ask how many times the Prime Minister, the President of our country, met with the President of the European Council during the Austrian Presidency, but perhaps also earlier, since the beginning of the term of office of President Donald Tusk. Of course, I am not talking about such meetings at large, i.e. when the whole European Council is meeting, but it is about meetings which would be meetings concerning matters between Poland and the European Union that these politicians should talk about. If you could just say... Of course, I do not want to know the details, but it is about what was the main topic of these discussions between the Prime Minister or the President and the President of the European Council, and during the Austrian Presidency, and during the previous Presidency.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u76	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u77	Firstly, one procedural explanation: The European Council consists of Heads of Government and Heads of State... [[I know that.]] ...members. I have the impression that some of you are suggesting that the President of the European Council is a separate entity in this group. No, it's different. [[I understand that perfectly.]] The President of the European Council has obligations attached to the Treaty as regards assistance for the cooperation of entities, i.e. Heads of Government and Heads of State. This is his role as President, his role as the permanent secretariat of the European Council. So he has a commitment to all Member States, and I hope that he is willing to implement it also towards Poland. In order to facilitate the political process in the Council. President Tusk is not the party we negotiate with, for example. the shape of the records. We negotiate the form of the decision, the form of the records with the other heads of government and the heads of state, because they are the subject of the Council. [[We know that. We know that.]] Well, I'm not sure if it's known to everyone, because in some questions there is such a suggestion that the Prime Ministers of 28 countries meet there to get something from President Tusk. No, it's the other way around. President Tusk has a commitment to these prime ministers to make things easier, right? [[Minister, I'm not suggesting anything like that at all.]] The trial takes place between the premieres. [[Don't tell me, don't put something like that in my mouth, 'cause I didn't talk about stuff like that at all. Right? I really have some orientation, and that's why I'm asking.]] That was the question, it was in that spirit, let's face it. That's what you have to remember all the time. When the Council meeting begins... I can't tell you how many times these gentlemen cross paths because the Council meeting is behind closed doors, but there are probably many interactions here, especially when it comes to matters that are important from a Polish point of view. We are in permanent contact with the secretariat of the President, with the President, because he is organising the work of this project, which is the European Council. So I think that no one is able to determine how many meetings and what cases are being held, because this is a rather spontaneous process and it is not structured in the way that is the case with official government delegations. When he comes to Warsaw, let's give it to the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, this is a delegation, there are certain times, the place is all very concrete. The European Council is a spontaneous body, so I am unable to determine how many times and on what matters you speak to each other, because this is supposed to happen behind closed doors, only between the heads of government. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Many times.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I must ask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u79	My question was that I didn't mean such meetings that they intersect in the hallway of their path and President Donald Tusk's... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: No, that's not what I meant.]] ...or at a meeting of the European Council. I'm just talking about official meetings. It's like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, Who are the meetings with him of our Prime Minister, our President. If you are unable to answer that question today, because you say you are unable to answer, please provide such information in writing. And at the same time it's... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: No, no, I remember everything well, because I have been in this process from the very beginning.]] Minister, let me finish this then. And it's just a request to answer in writing what the main thesis of these meetings were, of course, without details, which are subject to secret diplomacy, because I don't want to... Well, I'd be curious, but I understand it's not possible to share it. So that I would ask for that information in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u80	I'll give you an oral answer because I remember it. President Tusk was with an official visit to Warsaw once, in 2016, and then met Prime Minister Szydło in the office building of the President of the Council of Ministers. As regards such meetings, which have structure, programme, meetings with diplomatic protocol, etc., President Tusk visited Poland once. [[And in Brussels, these official meetings...]] In Brussels, these meetings are different because the European Council is different in nature, it is not so structured and there is probably a lot of them, because we have many issues, many expectations of the European Council and we want President Tusk to carry out his duties also towards the Polish government. We do not want it to be on special terms, on a basis of some extraordinary courtesy or courtesy, simply having the obligations of the Treaty, so it must carry them out. [[So I'm also asking you to tell me how many times he's met with the president. I would ask for such information in writing, also information about what these meetings were about, also in 2016.]] [[Report to the President's Office. Don't burden the minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u81	Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u82	Thank you. Minister, I would like to ask you about European agriculture. What are the results of the discussion during the Austrian Presidency on the common agricultural policy? Of course, I am talking about CAP resources in a new budgetary perspective, family farms as the basis for European agriculture. And above all, how do we stop young people in the country? This is a serious problem. Young farmers have taken huge measures in the last two budgetary perspectives, but European agriculture or the European countryside is getting old. It is a little better in Poland, but as far as Europe is concerned, the situation is absolutely dramatic. Could the Minister possibly give us an insight into the effects of discussions on this subject during the Austrian Presidency?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u83	As far as the demographic structure of farmers is concerned, it is a question of the Ministry of Agriculture. I have no knowledge of what is going on in this case, because it is a sectoral policy. As far as the multiannual financial framework is concerned, we have two problems: the scale of funding and the principles of financing. As far as scale is concerned, Poland has obviously recreated the coalition of countries which have always acted in defence of agricultural policy, countries which are more focused on this policy, do not abandon the agricultural sector and are interested in maintaining the financing of this policy at the appropriate level. This should have the right effect in the negotiation process. We're at the very beginning, so for now we can only talk about how ready we are. The readiness of the same countries as always, Poland is also the same. I am talking about the readiness to defend agricultural policy in the structure of the expenditure of the multiannual financial framework. As far as governance rules are concerned, we are at an even more preliminary stage, because we only have projects. These are not the subject of advanced legislative work today. The Ministry of Agriculture will be responsible for this, which will probably find such models of management of agricultural policy, which will, as a rule, adhere to Polish reality. This reality varies from one Member State to another. Of course, we have our expectations in this matter. This will be the subject of sectoral arrangements between agricultural ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u84	No further questions. [[What do you mean, no?]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[They're ……]] Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u85	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, my question is a little bit near the mainstream, but I'm asking it because you've mentioned the Eastern threat several times here. My question concerns not the European Union, but the Council of Europe. I'd like to, if that's possible... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Not really, because I am not responsible for the Council of Europe. Even if I have an opinion or information about it, I'd rather not get into other people's shoes.]] [[Of course.]] Good. Can I possibly request a written reply? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yes.]] I'd like that very much. The situation is quite serious at the moment, after Russia has stopped paying its share. The Council of Europe is in a financial crisis and has a problem. I would like to find out, ask for written information on what steps the Ministry may have envisaged in this regard. [[It's not an object...]] There are various proposals from different countries. I'd like to know who's responsible for this at the Ministry and if there's any reflection on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u86	Minister Wawrzyk is responsible for the issues of international human rights and human rights organisations in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who will be pleased to provide information on the financing problem of the Council of Europe. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u87	Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u88	Minister, I, too, would like to move a little further away from the mainstream discussion. I would like to ask about Poland's policy in the European Commission on environmental issues. In 2017, we had such a situation that Poland threatened to suspend the payment of PLN 3 billion 500 million for environmental purposes because of the fact that Poland did not adopt law in accordance with the Water Framework Directive. We had a similar situation at the end of last year. It was about the flagship decision, as your propaganda says, the piss propaganda... That is not entirely true, because it was also an important investment of the Civic Platform. I'm talking about the channel by measuring. The government withdraws from the environmental arrangements with the European Commission on this investment, which immediately creates a conflict between the European Commission and Poland as an investor. This could threaten some sanctions on the part of the European Commission. Why do we need these conflicts? Are we building conflicts? I don't know, getting up off my knees and risking losing money? Because I don't understand. We are making an investment that has environmental research, and we are not agreeing with the European Commission or withdrawing these arrangements. Because that's exactly what this is. The dossier was submitted to the European Commission in 2014 and was withdrawn from the European Commission in 2017. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u89	You've gone a little publicistic, so I'll answer you in the same way. Since you are interested in environmental law, you probably know why there have been enormous delays in implementing the Water Directive. You know the history of this case, and you know very well that all the delays that have caused the Government of Law and Justice to proceed very quickly at the very beginning of its term of office with very difficult legislative commitments... [[But it's in 2017...]] ...of European law, which you did not want to execute for long, long years for purely opportunistic reasons, of course by waving the European flag, speaking of fidelity to the principles of the European Union, European law... This was one of the most outrageous delays with regard to the transposition of Union law into national law for purely opportunistic reasons. So please do not go into the tone of clearing this office, as regards the implementation of difficult obligations arising from Poland's membership of the European Union, because it was we who had to do this, under very difficult circumstances, under pressure of time, under the pressure of a complaint to the Court of Justice, which has become real because of your long-term delays, opportunistic delays. Exactly the same condition with regard to the Nitrates Directive. The only sentence not executed by Poland throughout the entire period of Poland's membership in the European Union was the judgment on the non-implementation of the Nitrates Directive, for which you take full responsibility because for 8 years you have not done so. Another environmental issue I will only refer to matters in this area. Of course, it's a problem to prevent dust emissions, a very fashionable topic today called dust emissions. smog. Poland would not be in this position if not for the fact that the state persistently, for very long years, has done nothing about the implementation not only of the law but also of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the relevant action plan, but also on legislation in this area. Of course, by waving the EU flag from morning to evening and empathizing with improbable fidelity to all principles and in particular to the law. We just have a long list of delays, opportunistic delays in cases that are, at least, some of them. They are very important to citizens. So please really measure your words when it comes to public criticism in this matter. Because we had to do all those commitments. And we did it. Also in terms of the unenforced judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which for some time this failure played a rhetorical role in your stories towards the public. The only sentence that was not executed was not executed by the governments, persistently. As far as I am concerned, your environmental documentation, which was actually submitted in 2014, has unfortunately not proved to be a sufficient legal basis for the European Commission to decide whether to implement this excavation. It is very easy to submit documentation, which unfortunately does not have the expected effect of enabling this investment to be implemented. And that's why we're late today, that's why we need to look for other ways to implement this important investment today. This is the whole picture of this situation. And I would suggest that we keep this in mind for the future, because your position in this matter is really very weak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u90	Senator Wczyła wants to ask, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u91	Minister, the past issues of the Water Framework Directive have only been shown by me as an example of a situation in which... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: This was a very good example.]] Yes, a very good example of a situation where the European Union shows what costs a country that does not implement environmental directives can bear. [[That's it.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Full agreement.]] Yes. And now what you're talking about... Because we are entering a new conflict with the European Commission, by the way, I'm measuring the channel. And, unfortunately, it is not as you say, that the environmental conditions for the construction of the channel could not be agreed with the European Commission by measure. And on 11 January Poland said whether or not it withdrew environmental documentation, instead of continuing discussions with the European Commission. I don't get it. Why, with environmental research, do we not agree with the European Commission, but are we going to conflict with the European Commission, as was the case in the past, as you rightly pointed out, with the Water Directive? At the same time, we know that this will threaten economic sanctions or, whatever we call it, economic losses in the use of EU funds. Why do we need another conflict? Was it not easier for the European Commission to pass on the channel documentation by measuring and agreeing on these environmental conditions?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u92	Your question would be justified if the environmental documentation that you submitted in 2014... [[You could've filled it up.]] [[3 years.]] ...allowed this investment to be carried out according to these assumptions. Unfortunately, the environmental documentation submitted by the State did not provide the legal basis for this investment because it was not accepted by the European Commission as sufficient. And that's why we have a very long delay on this. And that is the reason why the Ministry of Maritime Affairs in close contact I can assure you, although Minister Grybarczyk and the European Commission would have said more about this, they are looking for a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u93	This does not agree, Minister, with the facts, also those described by your government. I'd like to know in writing about that question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: What is the matter in writing? I've said a lot. So what's your question?]] I'd like you to put this in writing. And I will prove to you that the government's information about this case is completely different from what you've said. May I have the information in writing, please?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u94	I'm gonna interrogate this part to find out the question, and I'm gonna answer you. [[Mr. Marshal, can I have one sentence on this?]] [[But there's a line here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u95	There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Because the problem of digging through I measure this is a problem concerning Northern Poland. Do you? In concrete terms, the discussion that the Minister had here with Senator Wcisla The Minister could answer the following question in writing... [[You want to torture this government?]] ...what were the reasons for the withdrawal of the file on the excavation by measuring? [[You answered the Minister.]] If you don't mind me asking... We'll read it to each other. Okay? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u97	Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, first, I would like to ask that I be able two steps, depending on the answer to the first part of the question by the Minister... so that I may ask again, as Senator Wczyła did. Well, here's the question. You, Minister, in response to Senator Kleina's question, said, if I understand it well, something like this: that Donald Tusk, as President of the European Council, is not an institution and a person to whom you drive for something, only his function is treatyally empowered in such a way that he is merely the organiser of the work of the European Council and allows contacts between the presidents and prime ministers of the countries who form the Council of the European Union. Is that how you understand it? That's how you put it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u99	Not really, but I think it's enough to quote the treaty on this. It is the duty of the President of the European Council to make it easier, to irritate, I do not know what the wording used is, the cooperation between the members of the European Council, i.e. the Heads of Government and the Heads of State. [[Also, but not exclusively.]] [[Can we therefore call him such a technical organiser of the work of the European Council? Would you...]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] No, I wouldn't say it's a technical activity. Technical activities are taken care of by other people who... [[Good.]] ...bring coffee, open a window, etc. [[But I'm not talking about this kind of technical activity. I mean, to facilitate the work of the Council in the sense that, as I say, contacts between its members. Is that how we could...]] No, the contacts between the members of the Council are well-established without any real help. And the European Council's process of action, e.g. the creation of conclusions in the case of such a multilateral organisation, the organisation of 28 entities that expect something, must somewhere... and the normal path is that states present in the process of the Council on. general or other channels of your expectations or your opposition. But this is very often the case, especially in difficult cases, that countries agree on the right and desirable wording, so this is the process. not so much described. [[Good.]] Moreover, very many elements of the work of the European Council are not described, which some criticize very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u100	Well, maybe I'll ask the question differently. How would you describe the role of Donald Tusk as President of the European Council in relation to those who form this Council?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u101	A very theoretical question. I'd have to have a lot more time to think about how to describe this role. I think... let's stick to the treaty. In particular, in this convention, that the minister appears before the senators, he should not, I think, enter into any descriptive considerations. The treaty is what it is. He's deliberately written in a way that... Yeah, it's generalized. Moreover, many elements of the work of the European Council are formulated in a flexible way, one which leaves the possibility of using different interpretations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u102	Good. Then I'll ask the second part of that question, asking you for some kind of advice, if I may. Well, in various discussions with representatives of the current government majority, also in the media, I am asked what Donald Tusk could do for Poland by doing his job, what he did, what he could do, how he could help Poland. Well, from what you said, I draw the conclusion that it is precisely as a sort of organiser, coordinator of the work of the Council of the European Union and as someone about whom you said that you are not the person to whom representatives of the Polish government should go to do something. Well, I don't really see the possibility that Donald Tusk could somehow be useful to Poland. But maybe I'm wrong. If you could help me with this case, I would be extremely obliged.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u103	Do I understand that the senator's position is that Donald Tusk cannot be useful to Poland, even if he wanted to? [[I believe that in view of how you described Donald Tusk's position as head of the European Council... Well, I think we can deal with a situation in which he does not have much opportunity as part of his function to be useful to Poland.]] But I have heard, especially at the time of the election, that this is an extremely powerful function that will decide at all what our membership will look like. So I'm a little confused about how to read it. This proposal would have been entitled if I had admitted that it was a technical function, and that is the version that I explicitly rejected. This is not a technical function. This is a political function. However, the president's role and commitment are to ensure that, honestly, loyally... I don't want to say that in particular to my own country, because it would probably be extracurricular, but it's supposed to be between us. Right? So the point is that he is loyally, fairly fulfilling the expectations of the Member States. If he shared, I believe, the reasonable beliefs of Poland as to how to pursue not only our interests but also our Central European interests, it would be very nice, but his obligations depend primarily on loyal, factual cooperation. And she's a lot of things. Some of these manifestations are seen in public. Right? I think that President Tusk, unlike other presidents, e.g. to his predecessor, he chooses to perform this function, which is evidently, such an ostentatious one, which rather does not suggest a loyal, kind, factual cooperation in any matter concerning the interests of the country. Right? Political emotions, especially closer to the electoral period, sometimes prevail. This is a human thing and I completely understand it, but this is the reality of this function, apart from the Treaty, quite a general statement that the President should help Member States shape the position of the European Council, whose members are e.g. Prime Ministers and Heads of State.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u104	One more sentence, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind. I'm going to refer to what the Minister heard when Donald Tusk was elected, and I'm going to say yes. Of course, I think this function is extremely prestigious, but you brought this issue to whether it's a technical function, say, someone to serve coffee or tea. Here we agree, Donald Tusk probably does not serve coffee and tea at meetings of the Council of the European Union. I, too, will allow you to interrogate your statement in order to try to get some knowledge into my polemics for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u106	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question for you. In your opinion... I'm referring to Brexit. In your view, will the UK really exit within this time limit, which is widely stated? And second question. Is there a majority in your assessment at the moment that would indicate that there is a need to renegotiate the UK exit agreement... Is there a need for the European Union to renegotiate this agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u107	In order for the Brexit to change, a decision by the British Government, probably with a parliamentary vote, would have to be made, given that the British Parliament is very clearly looking forward to greater control over the whole process and is dissatisfied. The fact that the contract is rejected in the current procedure is a very strong manifestation of this. In short, it would have to be a British proposal now. This cannot be done on the EU's 27 side, even if someone wanted to. This request would also have to be substantiated, justified, with the answer to the question: why does it take more time, even though it has been two years? I think that's a legitimate expectation. Right? Why does it take this time, apart from the fact that it takes a very bad time to put away a very bad moment of barren brexite? It's up to Britain. I suppose if the proposal were well-founded, it would show a vision of the developments for the coming months, it would be supported. Poland would certainly approach this conclusion in a meaningful, constructive manner. Today, however, this is a purely hypothetical, purely theoretical situation, because the government and the parliamentary majority refuse to play to postpone the deadline, and very strongly so. It's repeated all the time that the intention is not to move the term. That's what we hear in public. And what are the counts on the British side? I don't think anybody knows that at all. Some opinions, in particular randomly heard opinions, recently revealed on one of British television, show that there may be other counts in this case, including within the government. We will come to this conclusion in substance, but the proposal must be from the British side. There's no other procedural form here. No one on our side can do that. With regard to renegotiations, this perspective is absolutely rejected by the Member States of the European Union. However, I think that this should not be regarded as a total inability to take other actions, activities alongside the agreement, which, for example, would be aimed at some kind of interpretation or accompanying act. I wouldn't want to rule that out at this stage. That would mean that the contract stays the way it is, but its legal context may be different. Right? This is also purely hypothetical, because for this we need an official British proposal. We did our part. The agreement was negotiated, initialled by both parties and accepted by the European Council. It is now waiting for a vote in the European Parliament, which will take place at the moment of the vote in the British Parliament and there has been a ratification crisis. We expect the government to present an official version of what happened and tell us how it wants to get out of this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u108	That's all. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Thank you.]] [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the Minister has undertaken to provide written answers to questions raised by Senators Kleina, Wcisla and Pociej. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jackowski was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to begin by thanking you for the factual answers to the questions that have been raised in the course of almost 2.5 hours of debate in the Senate. I would also like to express my conviction that, after your speeches, I have the impression that we are dealing with the end of the European Parliament's term of office, the end of the European Commission's term of office. It can be said that many of the things that have been on the agenda for the European debate so far have now been frozen for this simple reason, that there is a great expectation of what will happen after 26 May, so after the elections to the European Parliament, about how the process of shaping the new European Commission will be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, please remain quiet. Thank you very much.]] ...and what will happen next with Brexit, what will be the further debate on the budgetary perspective for the next seven-year-old. I would like to thank the Minister for his factual answers to the questions I have addressed to the Minister and for explaining the political background. I believe that this resolution, whether it is a regulation by which the European Parliament is the author, has a very clear political view, because the need for a comprehensive European Union mechanism for the protection of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights has been outlined here. In this document, aside from its interpretation and what will be further with this document, we read that the European Parliament regrets that the Commission has not yet presented a proposal for a comprehensive EU mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, and calls on the Commission to do so, particularly by proposing an interinstitutional agreement on the EU Pact for Democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in its forthcoming non-legislative initiative to strengthen the enforcement of the rule of law in the European Union. We read further that Parliament calls for a comprehensive, sustainable and objective EU mechanism for the protection of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights and stresses that such a mechanism is more urgently needed today than ever before. Parliament then reiterates that the main elements of this mechanism proposed by Parliament in the form of an interinstitutional Pact for Democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights include annual evidence-based and non-discriminatory reviews assessing, on a level playing field, compliance by all Member States with the values set out in Article. 2 TEU. The next paragraph states that the European report on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights must include and complement existing instruments, including the Justice Scoreboard, a media pluralism monitor, a report on combating corruption and peer review procedures based on Article. 70 TFEU. In addition, Parliament calls on the Commission to consider combining its proposal for a regulation on the protection of the Union budget in cases of general rule of law deficiencies in the Member States... In a word, the European Parliament calls on the European Commission to adopt the regulations that will lead to the annual preparation of reports on compliance with the rule of law, democratic values, freedom and freedom of media in the Member States, including recommendations that if a Member State were not to implement these recommendations, a mechanism should be put in place to punish such a country by limiting the resources of the EU budget that are intended for the country concerned. This mechanism responds to the fact that the Union or the European Commission do not have an instrument to intervene in the internal affairs of the Member States. This is why a parallel mechanism is being created that has the potential to act in this respect. And here I would like to point out that we are at a very important point in time when many things are being coupled, the current European Commission is leaving, and its term of office is ending. The term of office, which I firmly believe will be judged critically in the future, because it failed to pass the exam, could not cope with the fundamental problems of the European Union, i.e. both with Brexit and with the immigration crisis, with other crises that are consuming the European Union, and its efforts focused on attempts to take steps that were clearly beyond the Treaty delegation to take a position. And from this point of view, I think that after the next election, so after 26 May, commentators and observers and politicians throughout the European Union are talking about this. No doubt there will be a correction. Whether this is a correction going in such a way as to actually fix what is to be fixed in the European Union or not, the future will answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not here for the first time as a spokesperson for the construction of the Polish state of affairs primarily with regard to the European Union, primarily with regard to Europe. Therefore, please understand and even forgive my concerns in a situation where from Poland, but also from other countries, there are many signals or important political facts, and even political ones, which are our place in Europe. Maybe it's not always straight, but sometimes it's straight. - They're questioning me. With care or even with some distance, I also need to look at the Minister's speech, which has become a very difficult role as a roof-smashing roof or, otherwise, a tailor wearing torn pants. The Minister does it skillfully, even though he has to cover the old holes with his new papa. As far as these old holes are concerned, one of them basic is the lack of response from the camp to the question of Poland's place in Europe. What Europe? It's constantly changing, constantly evolving. I had the opportunity to introduce you to this problem. I apologize for this statement, maybe it was too columnical when I asked what was in the Polish team about the good change, that the president of this country was questioning the existence of Europe at all. He wasn't criticizing a pull, he wasn't questioning a decision, he was simply asking what it was, what is this imaginary community. He said that at the rally, not during the cafe conversations. And I don't think he's just saying that because it's before or after the election. I think it's an expression of consciousness. And you've confirmed it. That is why I fear for Poland's place in Europe. You applaud the moment Mr. Tusk's tweet is questioned, but that's not why I'm scared. These various tweets were many, I may have written even more of them, including the bad ones, but in a situation where the Senate Marshal refuses to procedate, he refuses to speak to the pain honestly, and to acknowledge the fact of choosing a Pole as one of the world's most important positions, i.e. the position of the President of the Council, until today, this resolution is not adopted, I have the right to believe that he is considered to be a person of non grata, and that at a time when not so much from his decision, but from how he will represent the interests of Europe, including Poland, depends mainly on our future success. It also depends on the success of a good change, because 1/4 - sorry, probably more The budget for responsible development is to come from European funds. Today we know they're going to be smaller. But our minister with a lot of knowledge I would say: Europeans must make even more of these holes in this inconsistent policy patch. It has to be. To be afraid, isn't this room going to ask the question: 'What have you done, Minister, with equal payments to farmers?'. After all, it was a basic programme of good change for the village. You guys ran away. They're afraid of confrontation. They're even afraid to give you a hint. You're snoring. About my proposal to make an English discount, £1 billion. Well, you had every right, and I think you're quite right. However, the answer to the good change programme was not presented, this time the hole did not cover, and even passed by the hole. Because there's something going on. Will the dynamically growing agriculture find a place in our efforts? Well, I'm not going to say that in efforts to obtain a discount, but that to take into account the question whether the UK, such an important agricultural market for Poland... the question is whether this hole that Brexit produces has not caused any more roadblocks than on the one, which I obviously would not wish for. And there's something going on and there's something going on in those holes... Because first we say we're not giving up a single judge... i.e. We will throw everyone out, let us be frank, and we will not accept any, and when there is a debate on the budget and other countries in a much larger number they say 'Cause I think that's what the Bulgarian or Romanian Presidency said. If Poland fails to comply with the European Union's or the Council's proposals in gromio, then there may be dangerous consequences, then the evening time of Prime Minister Morawiecki goes to Europe, and rightly, it is only a pity that evening time, hidden, after various ugly tweets. Similarly, the Minister of Agriculture, Minister Ardanowski, a well-known opponent of European integration, or at least in the agricultural market, at the end of the European Union's basic integration weapon, when several beef producers have made a terrible mess in Europe, asks Europe: "Come. Tell me what to do. What am I getting at? To the fact that it is not possible to build 2 states in a democratic state. This can't be a state of government and a national one. Democracy will show this hypocrisy. We cannot say that we are for Europe and at the same time we are stinging people on the euro. It is necessary to adopt the euro, but it is not necessary to fear that the euro means twice as expensive bread, poverty and poverty, especially when it comes to the fact that most countries around us have introduced it, and it has not happened to them. Euro talks It's not today's topic, is it? You're avoiding it. You're avoiding such a healthy democratic conversation as to whether or not you can stay with a strong goldsmith, stronger than the franc or the Norwegian crown. Also the recent events I have been talking about are these fluctuations, not to say simply: catastrophic steps. This is reaching out, quite technically and internally, to contracts with the United States and closing down on European companies. The example of caracala is clear. ♪ We want us to ♪ And the Minister spoke about it, and they worked in the UK, France. I'm not talking about emigration, I'm talking about a normal job relationship. We want our professionals to work there and they to work here. On the other hand, we close the border at Oder for the movement of goods not only, but also for people, for capital and I'll say it as a former engineer. It's for technology. United States I loved them and cried when they were losing in Vietnam. They will not tell us in the name of their interests national technologies, as they clearly say. Above all, there is no instrument for free movement that takes place in the European Union, because it is guaranteed, as the Minister rightly said, by international treaties and not bilateral agreements. That's what you have to pay attention to. And this is the hole that Europe looks at with astonishment. And the refugee problem? I give up. I'm not going to promote a model, Italian or Spanish, or, God forbid, German. The opinion needs to be taken into account... [[Mr. Senator, it's been 10 minutes.]] Another 10 minutes to also make some speeches of politicians, especially from the Senate, humiliate, soothe... [[Thank you very much.]] The refugee problem... [[Finish.]] [[Voice from the room: You have five minutes later.]] Do I have any more? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u112	Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'd like to start by thanking you, and the person to whom I direct these words is sitting here with us. He is Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański. Thank you for not only today, but also showing many times. And here, paradoxically, I thank Mr. Rulewski for using that term a few minutes ago. That you really represent Poland and the Pole, that you show him the way he should be in Europe and therefore also a European. I congratulate you very, very much. And I would undoubtedly wish, as Jan Żaryn, a citizen, not a senator, that the European Commission, so that the European Parliament, all the EU's most important institutions, be composed of Szymanski Conrads. But unfortunately, it's not. And here we are, Mr. Janie, Mr. Senator, when it comes to assessing what has also been said here today. Well, the problem with our place in Europe, understood as a place in the European Union, is not the result of our weaknesses, because we have real, authentic, smart, knowledgeable Europeans. The problem is that we also have this actual composition of the authorities of the current European Union. And as far as this composition is concerned, wherever we look, it is wrong: the wobbly Juncker, with the inter-Polish history of Donald Tusk, Timmermans grilling Poland, because there are no other current tasks and elsewhere it cannot prove itself. And this list is long. This is the phenomenon of a specific European structure today. They're specific people, they're not Martians. Today, these people rule the European structures. For us, it's a drama. We're not happy about it. It's a drama. But this drama has its effects: the immigration crisis, the de facto Brexit crisis, which cannot be blamed for. After all, only the British, but those who provoked the British to such a verdict. We're not happy about this verdict because there's nothing to be happy about. But it wasn't caused out of nowhere, it was just an analysis of reality. In short, European Union officials have lost their authority in many, very many people, Europeans. If you try to sum up the general reason for this loss of authority... Well, in my opinion, the reason is, of course, that they have left a system of values called Christianity. No one in this European world has invented anything smarter than to stick to the truth, honesty and everything that is a prerequisite for communication between European nations. These conditions have been crushed, destroyed. This is the reality of today's European Union. It is very good that elections are coming to Europarlment, because at least they give birth to hope... For the sake of clarity, I am not sure that in the balance sheet for current Polish interests this hope will be so joyful when it is fulfilled. However, I hold on to this hope that the elections to the Euro-Parliament will be a phenomenon that will give us information on whether today most Europeans are really the majority who want to build Europe. She walks in yellow vest or not. This is a very serious question, because in France, in which a certain trial is being held in front of our eyes... This is a very interesting process in the sense that the yellow vest has grown from outside the system. There are no trade unions there that would trigger this protest, and at first there is a social one. There are no political parties there that would be at the heart of this protest. That's why it's a protest against... yeah, against who? Against liberal democracy blocking all possible structures through which it speaks democratically, wanting to be democratic, society. Well, it really is a situational crisis. Let us hope that Konrad Szymański will be the European model and not the European Union's structures. You can hope that if such Italians, such French, such Germans, etc. they will be in the European Parliament, and we will regain this structure for the benefit of all the members of this mutual, very beautiful idea of Schuman, Adenauer and others. This is what we wish for today, because, as I understand it, we are meeting on this issue the last time before the European Parliament elections in May 2019. We'll meet after that and see if our hopes have come true. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to see more, but we would also like to say that we will soon be celebrating the 15th anniversary of the winning referendum, as a result of which we have become a full and almost decisive member of the European Union in some cases. Mr Szymanski has even given some examples here. For this reason, it is worth noting that for these 15 years Poland has been a country of growth, in some areas of prosperity. What are the reasons for questioning that? Mr. Senator Żaryn, you are well trained in the various stages of the development of historical thought. What are you going to do, undermining the current political shape? We're talking about parliament, about institutions of power. Do you want the Chadeks who rule, who still have something to confess the matter of mercy to the refugees, to turn to the left? Or maybe nationalists? British, Dutch, Italian? Did you give an answer in this courtroom? No, the other way around. Let's try to change... Now that we're talking about Europe of nations, let's say what it's supposed to look like. 'Cause right now it's just a nice password. One of the previous speakers, Senator Jackowski, said here: crises. Well, some people add that Tusk caused it. But it's unnatural. I don't know if Tusk wanted to run a small community or a big... I think this is bullshit. But it's said crisis. Yeah, brexit, which was caused by nationalists or business people, even bigger than a gas tube... But it's also true that they saved what I didn't believe. Greece. Other countries are also rescued, among others. Italy. And we're part of it. That's why it's worth asking what we're playing, or what are you playing? What is Poland supposed to be and what Europe? What do you bring to her? For now we are orphans pointing fingers for failing to apply European rules, under which people close to me signed, but especially you, like President Lech Kaczyński. Do we want to dismantle this system with empty passwords? I'm talking to you, folks. I called the minister... well, I didn't call him that, but I said he's a roofer. But in my opinion, when you're talking about the European community, which is fiction, about the community that takes away, steals, in this case you're going under the arm with the priest Rydzyk in the collar, and I'm scared, I'm scared... And since you're a roofer here in the courtroom, you're political roofers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u116	Thank you. Senator Comfort. For two minutes, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Two things I'd just like to bring up. Senator Żaryn said that the European Commission was grilling Poland. Not Poland, but your government, because in relation to Poland and to the values which are one of the cores in the Union, values concerning the rule of law, it simply expressed itself in accordance with these principles. And this is not a Polish barbecue. That's first of all. Secondly, to say that the European Commission has made any contribution to brexit... In my opinion, Mr. Senator, such actions would have to be sought far further east. And since you don't really love this eastern direction, you should be less happy that such changes are taking place in Europe. In my opinion, the changes that France is experiencing right now are going in the worst possible direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u118	Can I close the discussion? Because I have a recess at 12:00. [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] Good. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to speak again? If so, we'll have to do it after the break. [[Voice from the hall: Now break for the exhibition.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: I would just like to thank you for all the words, warm and critical. I'll think about them.]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr Konrad Szymanski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Are there any communications, Senator Secretary? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are there any messages? No. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 59 to 12 minutes 33]] We proceed to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating Jan Olszewski, President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland (1930/2019). Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. It is printed in print no. 1088 and the report no. 1088 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! On the one hand, I have great pleasure and such inner joy that I will be able to read the draft resolution commemorating Jan Olszewski, President of the Council of Ministers, outstanding Polish lawyer, politician, but on the other hand, of course, this joy is accompanied by sadness, natural sadness, caused by death. The death of a man, a Pole, a very outstanding Polish personality. I apologize for such a private annex to these words, but it so happens that at about the same age, they also died at a late age. my closest ones, specifically my mother in 2010. And then I was approached and told not to worry, because since it was such a good life, there is something in this death that can be called joy. I remember those words addressed to me, to my son, and I would like to repeat them here today. Because it is the death of Jan Olszewski, or a man who has fulfilled his life well, that is also, although it sounds paradoxically, joy, i.e. We can be glad that we had such an outstanding character and that we can honor it. I will read to you this draft resolution with the hope that it will be adopted unanimously, although the deliberations of the Legislative Commission, which met on 13 February 2019, suggest that this unanimity may not be preserved. During the meeting, a preliminary project was drawn up, inter alia. by me, he has been subjected, as has often been the case in the past with other draft resolutions, an in-depth analysis and there are many senators who have undertaken to improve this text. The amendments that have been tabled and were made primarily by Senator Cichoń, Senator Biesiołek and Senator Czerwiński have been taken into account by me as part of the self-correction procedure. Other amendments, proposed by the Senators of the Civic Platform, above all by Senator Ziientarski and Senator Borusewicz, were later rejected in the vote. Those were the amendments of Senator Pociej's... Excuse me, I've already, of course, remembered. If I've left out any of the senators, I'm very sorry, because that wasn't my intention. The fact is that, in the vote, this version, which will be read in a moment, was adopted almost unanimously, i.e. A large majority voted in favour of this proposal, 1 Senator abstained. In such a version, which will be read in a moment, this resolution found acceptance of the Legislative Commission. And it's like this. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland commemorating Jan Olszewski, President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland. On February 7, 2019, he died. Jan Ferdinand Olszewski, lawyer, activist of independence opposition, politician. He was born on 20 August 1930 in Warsaw in a family of railwaymen, politically connected with the traditions of the independence of the socialist movement. He grew in an atmosphere of respect for independent Poland, which he remained faithful to for the rest of his life. During World War II he was a soldier of the Grey Troops. He fought in the Warsaw Uprising. Since 1956, he has been actively involved in Polish break-ups as a member of Krzywy Circle Club and editor of "Simply." From the 1960s to the end of the Polish People's Republic he was a defender in political trials. He defended students, opposition activists repressed by the communist authorities, people of Solidarity in years of martial law, among others. in trials against strike organizers and underground publishers. He was one of the auxiliary prosecutors in the Toruń trial, representing the family of the murdered bl. Fr. George Popieluszko. In 1968 and 1970, in connection with the defense of students arrested during the March demonstrations in Warsaw, he was suspended in the law of the profession of lawyer. In December 1975 he was a co-author and signatory of Letter 59, an appeal to the Sejm of the Polish People's Republic containing protest against the proposed changes in the Constitution of the Polish People's Republic limiting the sovereignty of Poland. In 1976 he was among the founders of the Polish Independence Agreement and participated in the establishment of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. In September 1980, he joined the organization of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity), was an advisor to the National Commission (Solidarity) and one of the authors of its first statute. After the introduction of the martial law on behalf of the secretary-general of the Polish Episcopal Conference, Archbishop Bronisław Dąbrowski held talks with representatives of the authorities about the release of prisoners from internment camps. In the first fully democratic elections to the Sejm in 1991, he was appointed Member of the Sejm for the first term of office. On December 6, 1991, the Sejm appointed him President of the Council of Ministers. He was the first government prime minister elected by the Sejm in free elections after the transformation. As President of the Council of Ministers, he made efforts on the international stage to bring Poland into NATO and the European Communities, while opposing the country's dependence on Russia. At the request of the Sejm, His government, implementing the illustrious resolution, provided Parliament with a list of nearly 70 people performing important state functions and registered as security agents in communist Poland. This attempt at judging ended with an appeal from his government. The decision of the Sejm during the night shift from 4 to 5 June 1992, on the anniversary of the 1989 elections, Jan Olszewski was deprived of the position of Prime Minister. He said at the time from the Parliament's stand: When I included my functions [...] I knew that we would come to build a new system of democratic power in Poland, a new system, a new, third, our Polish Republic. ... I would like to, namely, when I leave this building when this one ends for me ♪ I'm not hiding ♪ A horrible time, [...] that when it's finally over I'll be able to go out on the streets of this town, go out and look people in the eye. And this to you. Mr Fellow Members, I wish you after this vote. He co-authored a civil draft of the 1994 Constitution, which was signed in a short time by 2 million Poles. After the presidential election in 1995, in which he won fourth place, he founded a new political party of the Movement for Reconstruction of Poland. He was an advisor to President Lech Kaczyński. He was working to liquidate the Military Information Services. On May 3, 2009, he was awarded the Order of the White Eagle. For the rest of his life, Prime Minister Jan Olszewski remained faithful to the ideals of independent, legal and democratic Poland. He was a man of honor, full of dignity, modesty and honesty. He was well registered in the history of the Polish nation, as a patriot, a statesman, a role model. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Him. Hello His memory! The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. That's the draft resolution. Discussion in the Legislative Commission indicated that there would be between Senators of the Civic Platform and Law and Justice It is likely that there is also an article on dispute or tension concerning in particular 2 specific passages and wordings. First of all, the part concerning the night change was pointed out by the citizens of the Civic Platform as unfounded in such a resolution. The fact was also raised that Mr Jan Olszewski was an advisor not only to President Lech Kaczyński, but also to Mr Lech Wałęsa earlier. Changes in these 2 fragments, i.e. Such deletions and additions did not receive approval from the majority of the Senators of Law and Justice. But some of the Senators' amendments to the Civic Platform have been taken into account. And if I can comment on what happened at the Legislative Commission, I will say so. I think sometimes it's just the way it is and you have to accept it. is to know that we are different, also in the assessment of the recent past, i.e. those events that took place in the years, in this case, the nineties. And these differences are natural, placed in the order of things. Therefore, there is no point in eliminating or artificially blurring these differences. They just are. As there are these differences, we should, I think It is, of course, my proposal as Senator of Law and Justice to accept this project in the version in which I read it, regardless of further the possible will to make changes. Because if we accept it not in this version, but in such a relief that we do not provide any de facto information to the public, then we, as Senators of Law and Justice, should not sign up for such a project. That's what I think. And I urge the Senators of Law and Justice to also discuss differences in views on this form. And the difference isn't evil, it's the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u120	Thank you very much. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u121	Thank you very much. I share, as far as possible, the view contained in the resolution that the direct cause of the collapse of the government or the cancellation of the government of Jan Olszewski was the implementation of the illusory resolution. This resolution was implemented at the request of Janusz Korwin-Mikke. But I would like to ask you, Mr Senator, not only as a rapporteur senator, but as a professor of history, as a man who specializes in the latest history of Poland, whether it was actually a direct cause, whether, as some people try to present it, this government simply did not have a normal majority in parliament and therefore fell, that it did not have that majority. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, do you want me to group up the questions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u122	No, no. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u123	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, our knowledge of what happened at night from 4 to 5 June 1992 is limited. Regardless of the title I own, my knowledge is also limited. I can presume on the basis of the information fragments that I know and which we probably all know here, that without a doubt this fear and fear of revealing the truth to the public was undoubtedly a good pretext for mobilising the government of Jan Olszewski. And as a matter of fact, I have no doubt. We are all here from a generation of people so adults that we also experienced this night personally. I personally experienced it in the apartment, in the living room of Mr Wojciech Ziembiński, with whom I was very much cooperating at the time. And I remember the moods that prevailed in us back then. The mood was obvious. The belief that the other side is afraid. In fact, he fears that the truth about the past will be revealed. So, in other words, the other side didn't grow into a democratic system. This was the conclusion of what was happening during that vote. And I wish that was the truth, that's what I'd say. Because suspicions today are much more tragic: not fear, but the question, unfortunately, of whether we, as a political class, are then adults to the fact that we want to be an independent state. I mean. whether the fact that all around us, either on the east side or on the west side, we have not yet been entered as a state fully sovereign and independent, it was information so hard, very hard handed down to us from the East and from the West I will remind you that the Red Army was still on Polish soil That also in the Polish political class we did not grow up to say "veto" against these international standards, to say that we have the right to independence. Jan Olszewski's government put this veto on geopolitical configuration. Part of the Polish political class was frightened not only by the truth contained in the files, but I have the impression that also the truth about the fact that the place of Poland in geopoliticalism is determined not by Poles, but by powers. I hope I'm wrong, Senator. [[Senator Zientarski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u124	Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u125	Mr. Senator, I will not speak in the discussion. I would just like to express my regret that honoring undoubtedly a great figure, in particular a lawyer... I myself am a defending lawyer in the martial law, and I was particularly close to Mr Olszewski at the time. I would like to express my regret that we could not come to an agreement, and the good principle in the Legislative Committee was that it was precisely the case to pursue consensus rather than to vote, not the arithmetic majority. You said... Here's a question. You said you were entitled to different grades. I agree with this, but whether the question of evaluation is the amendment I tabled at the committee meeting, the fact which has recently been widely reported by the media that Mr Jan Olszewski was the adviser to 2 presidents: Lech Wałęsa and Lech Kaczyński. Yeah, two presidents. You've crossed out Lech Wałęsa... [[He crossed himself out.]] ...so you're not telling the truth. It's not a matter of assessment. I'm asking you why you're not telling me the truth. As a result, he was the only advisor to Lech Kaczyński. I suggested consensus. Then let's not write that he was a counselor at all. I'm asking you why you didn't want to include... This is an example, just an example of the fact that, not in terms of assessment, and in terms of facts, you are violating this resolution, at least in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u126	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u127	Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have to say thank you for this question, because I expected it to fall, but I don't know if we're gonna take it together, Mr. Senator, on your shoulders the answer you know. [[I don't know. What do you mean?]] We're gonna take it to the barge together, since you asked me a question, okay? Now let's say that's the answer. Yeah, Jan Olszewski was certainly proud to be Lech Kaczynski's advisor, and everything points to that he wasn't proud, as was very, very many of us... [[Voice from the room: We are talking about facts.]] ...very, very many of us who supported Lech Wałęsa in 1992, when his presidency turned out to be the president of the betrayal of those ideals that joined us back in 1990... [[That's an evaluation, that's an evaluation.]] I was also on the honorary committee of Lech Wałęsa in 1990, and I had the opportunity to cooperate within this committee with Mr Jan Olszewski. At the time, we believed very strongly that Lech Walesa was the president who would lead us to independence. Unfortunately, it wasn't true. Today, of course, we already know a lot more about why we did not know this in 1990. And in my really honest view, if we had written this simple truth in this resolution today, it would have been a false statement at the same time. Take it as a logical thing to do. I hope we're all smart enough to understand what's said. False is not always hidden only in a simple factual sentence. The false is also in an attempt to compare these two figures: Lech Wałęsa and Lech Kaczyński. But I didn't want to bring this up because today, in this conversation, it's certainly not President Lech Wałęsa's opinion. And you know perfectly well, Mr. Senator, that that would be the sound of that record, because you are a very intelligent man.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u128	Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the senator. Well, such a shortcut of thought or such a form was a headline in the New World. It was a journal that appeared at the time. There the headline in the issue of 5 June 1992 was: Olszewski goes away The agents remain. In your opinion, did this headline, in substance and in public, convey the essence of the situation that occurred at the time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Today we know, in a particularly pushy way, how media can shorten complicated reality. And undoubtedly the new world that was leaving then I also had the pleasure of publishing in this letter, this title is very close to me In a short way, he wanted to show the reality much more complicated. Fortunately, it was not the agents themselves who remained, so we could continue to try to become independent. And what is more, it seems that the last words uttered at that time by Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, saying that he would be able to walk on the streets of Warsaw with his head up and look people in the eye, caused him to meet these eyes increasingly understanding his words, from year to year, up to 2019, that is to date.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u131	Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u132	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the figure of Jan Olszewski, of course, deserves to be commemorated by the Senate. He is one of the most important opposition activists in the times of the Polish People's Republic, one of the most outstanding figures of the period of Undoubtedly, the balance of Jan Olszewski's accomplishments absolutely deserves to be commemorated. On the other hand, I have a point on one of the wordings that is in the committee's proposal. I will quote this sentence: by the decision of the Sejm during the night shift, from 4 to 5 June 1992, on the anniversary of the 1989 elections, Jan Olszewski was deprived of the position of President of the Council of Ministers. Wouldn't it be better to say that it was cancelled by the Sejm, by the Sejm who was elected... [[It was an assassination attempt on Poland.]] ...in democratic elections? It was already the Sejm elected in not contract elections, but democratic elections... [[Voice from the hall: Sovereign...]] Wouldn't it be more appropriate from the point of view of historical truth that it was the cancellation of Prime Minister and Prime Minister Olszewski's government, not the deprivation of... 'Cause being deprived of someone's dignity, I don't know if they're gonna... [[Voice from the room: Force.]] ...force function. But wouldn't it be more appropriate to say that it was the Sejm who called off Jan Olszewski's government?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u133	Mr. Senator, it wouldn't be right, because as we're all sitting here, we know... we've definitely watched a documentary called: The night shift and we could find out what was the appeal procedure, as you call it, the government of Jan Olszewski. Especially, I think, in memory of this short verse, words uttered by later Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak, talking about a gangster grip. If this is an appeal rather than a denial, I find it difficult to agree with that. The gangster grip also depended on the fact that... I quote your coalitioner Not some character I've ever loved to make it clear. This gangster move was also based on the fact that, according to custom, And the party who feels guilty The government of Jan Olszewski and the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, and the Minister of National Defence, have been tried to shift responsibility, as you may remember, to the government of Jan Olszewski and the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, and to the Minister of National Defence, that supposedly the Vistula units are preparing for a coup d'état, which in fact makes it necessary to deprive Prime Minister Jan Olszewski of his role. As you know perfectly well and remember, no one has ever proved to anyone in their life that Mr.John Olszewski then tried to use illegal methods. It was the state that called him off, that put this kind of mechanism in the loop of the public, the mechanism of lies. Well, the mechanism of lying, and the mechanism of fear, and the mechanism of gangster night grip are more in the word "deficited" than "deficited," and we might be looking for even more harsh wording, but we just didn't want to look for quotations from Waldemar Pawlak in this resolution. [[Excuse me, can you ad vocem?]] [[Voice from the room: No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u134	There is no ad vocem formula. You can ask a question. [[But I was called.]] There is no ad vocem formula. Mr. Senator, I'm sure you know the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u135	Good. Here's my question: how do you speak of the state, namely you, to us, e.g. I'm stuck among politicians who canceled Jan Olszewski? I'm a little offended.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u136	That's right. I'm very glad you're offended, Senator. I was talking about this in the context of a coalitioner, I mean, not a coalitioner of Law and Justice, but a coalitioner of the Civic Platform. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're still Senator of the Civic Platform. Today you are in the Civic Platform and coalitionist of the Civic Platform during recent governments was Mr Waldemar Pawlak, who also has his political life story. In 1992... [[Voice from the room: After all, there was no Civic Platform at the time.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...said what he said. I was quoting it. But I'm very sorry if I offended anyone. I understand you don't feel like you're one with the words of your own coalitioner. [[Voice from the room: This is speculation.]] [[A little decency.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u137	Are there any more questions? [[Voice from the room: Jan Libicki.]] Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u138	Thank you. First, let me introduce a little introduction to Prime Minister Pawlak's question. I understand that if Mr. Waldemar Pawlak was in a coalition which, so to speak, deprived the majority of the government of Prime Minister Olszewski, it is wrong, and how the Polish People's Party would enter into a coalition with Law and Justice after the local elections, that is good. The same Waldemar Pawlak party. But that's by the way. There's something else I'd like to tell you. I would like to say that, with some, I have to say, surprise, but so positive, I accepted that after the death of Prime Minister Olszewski from many parts fell at his address warm and full of appreciation. The fact that Jarosław Kaczyński talked about him warmly and wrote about him in a warm way Adam Michnik... Show me another person and another event around which these two gentlemen would have, so to speak, a more or less convergent opinion. And now it seems to me that the adoption of such a confrontational resolution is disrupting the mood that I have spoken of. Well, let's face it: Prime Minister Olszewski's government has fallen because he lost most of it. Lost majority is a normal democratic procedure in democratic countries. If you put in such terms, you make it difficult, for example. Me, voting for this resolution. I don't know how I'm gonna vote tonight. I'll make my decision just before the vote. But don't you think it would be worth the atmosphere that emerged after the death of Prime Minister Olszewski to uphold our resolution?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u139	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I'm just gonna give you a fancy answer to the senator. My empathy towards your environment ends at some point. That's not my problem. That's your problem. We in the draft resolution write what is true about our vision of the achievements of Mr Jan Olszewski. One of the most important points of this achievement was the government under its chairmanship, which was deprived of its function in connection with the illusory resolution. It happened in a way that was unworthy in the sense that the party that called it off prevented the carrying out of the vetting in Poland, or, as I said, even worse, prevented a certain path from being followed. Fortunately, only for a moment was it stopped to get out of what we called Eastern Neighbor dependence in the project. I think these are far more serious issues than the problem of empathy towards the state. I understand you have a problem with how to vote, but, again, that's not my problem. [[We don't have a problem. We just want the truth.]] [[Calm down, please.]] Senator Libicki said he had a problem, and I understand that, but... [[Then talk about Senator Libicki, not us.]] I'm so sorry. The problem you expressed to Senator Libicki is the problem of Senator Libicki. My empathy in this matter is ending. [[But I wasn't suggesting that this was everyone else's problem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u140	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u141	Senator rapporteur, I think even the creator... Don't you think... You may have empathy issues, but no one's denying you that. But you're proposing a resolution to the Senate in gremio. This isn't about your original solution, which you're entitled to. At the moment, first of all, you are standing here on behalf of a certain committee, the committee that prepared this. Secondly, the committee was doing it to get the Senate to do it. And at this point, in my opinion, your empathy must unfortunately be shown during the vote. My question comes down to something else. The formula that's already causing the discussion here... It happened that I did not take part in the events of these memorable days, but I will tell you frankly that there are senators here who voted in favour of the government not only of duty but also of sympathy, because the Parliamentary Club of the NSZZ I do not know how others later voted on one of the works of the Olszewski government, especially Mr Macierewicz. Doesn't that make it seem necessary for you to have this element that doesn't talk about sleep? Mr. Olszewski, he's just talking about the work of the Sejm, the Senate or other organs... Is it necessary to include this in the acquis? Mr. Jan Olszewski? After all, the resolution is to talk about him, not about the institutions around him, whatever decisions they made. Do you think that's necessary?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u142	I don't know how to answer you, Senator. Yeah, I think it's necessary. I think it is clear to all of us that Prime Minister Jan Olszewski had very, very many merits and a rich life, full of activity. However, the illustration of his biography would be, to put it mildly, incomplete if we had not referred to this dramatic moment in such a resolution. It is also dramatic for himself, as is shown by the quote we referred to in the project. I stress: by us, not by me. I am clearly standing here expressing the opinion of the Legislative Commission, the majority who took the initiative to vote in favour of this draft resolution I have read.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u143	No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jackowski was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As one of the co-rapporteurs of this draft resolution, I would like to say that it is clear that this is the kind of document that we are adopting in the Rules of Procedure during the Senate meeting. All the political, moral, human will he left us. Mr. Counselor, Prime Minister Jan Ferdinand Olszewski, obliges us to make such a resolution for our House. His life was extremely rich in various initiatives, in participation in various bodies. This project is trying to collect it all. He may be long, but let's remember your patron's life was extraordinary. As a young boy he participated in the Warsaw Uprising, in the times of the Polish People's Republic he was an active participant in the forming opposition In various stages, because also after 1956, and in Gomułkowski's times, and in the days of Gaming, when he was co-initiator of Letter 59. He was a defender, a man of conscience, and a righteous man. But in this whole discussion about the patron of Jan Olszewski, we do not talk about the government that he came to run, and it was, as underlined in the draft resolution, the first government elected after World War II as a result of completely democratic elections. Prime Minister of this government This, too, is a historical symbolism, which was unbreakable in the pursuit of independence by Jan Olszewski. It is therefore worth recalling the period during which he was Prime Minister. At the beginning of March 1992, three months before he was dismissed as Prime Minister, a study was prepared in the Ministry of the Interior entitled "Inner threats to state security', intended for the highest authorities. The conclusion states, among other things, that:: The start of the verification work and their first successes will probably mobilize the most vulnerable environments to actions calculated to paralyze the government or actually overthrow it. End of quote. Jan Olszewski therefore realized what he risked, but his mission to separate the Polish People's Republic from the reborn and independent Republic was a clear moral, political and legal censor and decided to resist pathological relations in the country. The situation at the turn of 1991 and 1992 was difficult. The government apparatus was a mess, and the state's financial condition was critical. Inflation, pathological classification of nomenclature, scandals It was the day-to-day thing. There has been a permanent collapse in the public register, an uncontrolled increase in the budget deficit. Key institutions such as television, especially the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, were outside the control of the first democratically elected government. Leszek Miller, then secretary-general of the SdRP, spoke in January 1992 in an interview for the Tribunny: "Many think they have bought silence that their secrets lie in the archives of the MMA. But perhaps not everything is on Rakowiecka. He thus gave Olszewski a team to understand that people associated with the former country of the Polish People's Republic have in their hands a lot of compromising materials and can freely blackmail new political elites. The army of the neighbouring power was stationed in Poland, and their commander may have insulted the public and the government of the country in which he was with his army guarding Russian interests. The actions of the Olszewski government led to an orderly financial policy of the state and a clear increase in production and a breakthrough in the economy of recession. A draft of a reasonable budget has been drawn up. For the first time in many years Poland has had a positive balance of current balance of payments in turnover with foreign countries. According to a survey of the Public Opinion Research Centre of June 1992, the Olszewski government did the most for the country in terms of taking care of military strength and defence of the country, fighting recession, agricultural policy, policies against state enterprises, fighting economic scandals and fighting crime. The adjustment of the budget and the financial discipline allowed for increases for the budgetary sphere in the summer of 1992. Two important international agreements have been signed. At the same time, work has been started on central administration reform. In international politics, treaties were signed with Russia and Ukraine, relations with Belarus were spoiled and the Visegrad Triangle was strengthened. Negotiations with the EEC were undertaken This was the beginning of our accession to the European Community project For the first time, Poland's membership of NATO was defined as a strategic objective. Jan Olszewski's government played an important role in the latest history of Poland. And I would like to conclude by referring to what you quoted from the rapporteur, Prof. Jan Żaryn. Well, I have a personal memory, too. Of course, I watched those events through television broadcasts, which was from 4 to 5 June last night, and I remember this dramatic speech very well and this famous question by Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, whose is Poland? And I remember that moment when he said, when I got out of the Seym, I wish I could look Poles in the face. It so happened that on June 6, 1992, my wife and I walked along Puławska Street near the cinema that did not exist today, near the private residence of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, and I met him on the street. He walked alone, with his forehead raised, surrounded and welcomed by Warsawians. And that was Mr. Jan. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u145	Thank you very much. Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I come from a generation that entered into adult life in the early 1980s. Various events in the history of Poland, known to us all, such as the election of Pope John Paul, had a huge impact on our worldview. II, then his visit to Poland, spring of Solidarity. I drove from Gniezno to Bydgoszcz myself to the Holy Masses, which... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Rulewski... [[I'm sorry.]] ...at the church square. We've been through all this and it's shaped us. Then came the period of systemic changes, the Round Table and just those events which today are called the night folders. I began to engage in social life in 1993, after the elections, when the communist apparatus restaurant took place in Poland. I figured it was actually unimaginable. How could a democratic country have been restored to power by the people who built the previous system in a democratic way? It was unimaginable for us. Now the issue of Prime Minister Olszewski's government itself. 2 matters are important here, which should be recalled, namely the very functioning of this government for the period from December 1991 until its cancellation and the night of the briefcase. Those two cases need to be separated. Ladies and gentlemen, all who are reasonable in thinking of Poland agree that the government of Prime Minister Olszewski has determined and clearly defined the direction of Polish policy, foreign policy, so that it is directed towards European structures, then the EEC, and military structures, i.e. NATO. This incident, which took place at the time of President Lech Walesa's visit to Moscow, when he came from Warsaw, from the Prime Minister, the cipher that ordered to stop any further debates and negotiations, and especially the signing of an agreement between Poland and our eastern neighbour concerning special zones on military bases, was one of the main reasons why President Lech Wałęsa lost confidence in the government, as reported by the Marshal of the Sejm. I remind you of this because these are historical facts, which today in this discussion are important, worth recalling. Then we have the events of May 27th, when Members of the Democratic Union, the Liberal Democratic Congress and partly the Polish Beer Friends Party In part, because not all of them applied for a vote of distrust to the government. And only the next day does history begin to accelerate, when Korwin-Mikke enters the Seym tribune and submits a motion for mirrors, obliging the Minister of the Interior to implement the resolution. And then things begin that, as if they were going beyond the world of normal democratic debate, in which all of this would be seen differently today. So I cannot agree with Senator Libicki... Of course the government was democratically dismissed in this Seym, but see what the reasons for this appeal were. Well, there were the following... [[Voice from the room: A lot earlier was the appeal request...]] [[Calm down, please.]] I just said... [[Allow me to continue...]] I just said it. Be careful, and then we can discuss. Yes, on 27 May was submitted by the activists of 3 political parties request It's just been said. It's for the government's appeal. But everything accelerates in connection with the artwork itself. It is the illustration that causes so much anxiety in different political bodies No one knows what will be in those envelopes that will be brought to the Sejm. And it is the opening of these envelopes that stimulates the reaction. That's what it looks like. We saw it in a movie, we saw how politicians behaved from different angles when they found out who was on those lists. I mean, they knew who might be there, but the most important thing was who was there. And now there are two issues: the world of politics, real policy, and the world of ethics-based policy. I must say, unfortunately, Jan Olszewski was mostly based on ethics. This is how he was raised, because it was just as it was said today, a man of the former generation, raised in a romantic vision of Poland, for whom principles are most important and who does not practice Bismarck's policy, i.e. policies of real goals. On the one hand it is beautiful, but on the other hand it repents in the history of Poland until today. I will not prolong this speech because we know how it all happened, how the government was dismissed. Here's what I'm gonna say: when it comes to so-called. disassembling the Round Table, it could have happened if several political conditions had been met That is, if what we call the political realism of a party who wanted to remain in power and pursue its goals. First of all, one of the coalitioners had to be joined... and a new coalitioner had to be elected to the government. It could possibly have been a Democratic Union, and it could have been more based on KPN, but we know that Mozulski was on the list. The government, however, relied primarily on ethical principles, because at the head of this government was a man of impeccable character who lived by these principles. And that is why today we can continue to go back to history, which fits in the same way as the history of Poland into important events that took place in the interwar period, which took place in the 19th century. ... And I can say today gloria victis, glory to the winner, because that's what happened then, but the real goals have not been achieved. May he rest in peace. Prime Minister, praise you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It so happens that in just 1 month we have the opportunity to mention once again your patron, Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. Less than a month ago, on the occasion of the adoption of a resolution in the century of the signing by the chief of state in December 1918, of a decree on the provisional statute of the Polish Bar among lawyers who marked in the beautiful history of Poland's gaining independence and its position in the world, we exchanged patron Jan Olszewski. We listed him as the one who counted Unfortunately, at the moment we say this already in the past time, because he left us to the most outstanding figures in the bar. I remember those times, when these names, patron Jan Olszewski, patron of Sila-Nowicki, were the names of lawyers, bar attorneys, who became famous for their very brave and at the same time very thorough, precise court speeches in numerous political processes, where they took up the role of defenders or the role of prosecutors of relief, as in the process of assassins Fr. Popieluszki, when they represented just as patrons the family of the murdered Fr. The ashes. For me, then an applicant, then a young lawyer, they were very beautiful designs, worthy of imitation. And I regret a little bit that I met your patron Olszewski quite late, because it wasn't until 2011, visiting him in the hospital as he could, and the patron, Senator Łukasz Piotr Andrzejewski, asked me to go to the hospital. And the first impression I had was actually a collision. It was a surprise to me that for me the monumental figure I had in my imagination, with his immense modesty and kindness. He was a complex disease at the time, but he had these beautiful, smiling, friendly eyes and asked questions about matters of Poland, about what was happening in the Senate. And that was your patron, then Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. His goodness, his nobility, the spreading of certain principles, was a man of principle, as my previous speaker mentioned, accompanied him all his life. Even though he became prime minister, he was still a normal, kind man, open to helping all. This ancient rule did not work, that honors mutant mores, most often for worse, means honors change customs, as I say, most often for worse. He continued to be himself, a lawyer who thought that his mission, his calling, was to serve people, and since he became Prime Minister, he was already serving in a larger dimension, all of Poland, our homeland. And this steadfastness of his, sticking to his standards, and at the same time guarding the values he had confessed, led him to be betrayed at some point. Betrayed by who? By my own clients. I know it's every lawyer's experience that sooner or later he's betrayed or ungrateful to his own clients. But that betrayal was special because it was betrayal. not his clients towards him as a lawyer, but towards him as a politician, a man who wanted to change the history of Poland, who wanted to free us from the past of the communist system, from the influence of special services on politicians. And that's what got him canceled. I would like to stress one more thing that he was a man of principle until the very end. If he wasn't, he would have taken some defensive action, and he didn't actually take any action. All he did was say something and it's also a testimony of his craftsmanship as a speaker. What not everyone understood was that some were too thick-skinned that they wished for what they wanted, namely, that when they left the Sejm they might look people in the eye. He didn't use any epithet at their address. This is the art and greatness of a good speaker, a good lawyer and a good politician. People like that can say what they think, without insulting others. The art of such talk has recently been presented by a British parliamentarian, speaking of our prime minister, who offended the British people that this is a man without manners. Well, she didn't use a more pejorative term. We all know what it means to be a man without manners. On the contrary, Counselor Olszewski was a man of great culture, great manners. I was reminded by Andrzejewski's patron, that at the time of the commune, when he was deprived of his right to pursue his profession and had a disciplinary case before the court, one of the defenders was the patron Olszewski, alongside the famous patron of Force-Nowicki and another judge of the Supreme Court at rest, a very good judge of the Mountain. And when an outrageous verdict came in, which affected your patron Andrzejewski, our later senator's colleague, they left the room, after announcing the verdict, without waiting for justification. It was, of course, their manifestation against the lawlessness that took place in the courtroom. It was for this that disciplinary action was initiated against them and attempted to hold them accountable, among others. Your patron Olszewski. Then he similarly euphemistically as at the end of his mission the prime minister of the government, when he addressed the parliamentarians to have the opportunity to look their mates in the eye, explained very... very wittyly, you would say, with such finesse. Namely, he said, "I left because I felt sick." And of course, he didn't comment on anything else. Well, everyone knew that a man of great stature probably didn't feel bad because he was physically weak, but he just got sick because the sentence was so amoral that he was unbearable. That was the finesse of your patron, then Prime Minister Olszewski, that he could say anything and at the same time not offend anyone. And with his attitude, he mobilized others with his life to be better and to stick to certain standards, certain principles. In fact, he, as rarely as anyone, can say these beautiful words of St. Paul: in good competitions I performed, completed the course, preserved the faith. Hi to our patron, Prime Minister Olszewski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u149	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Lightning.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! We're reminiscing about sleep tonight. Jan Olszewski, because, of course, as we all know, he deserves it. It'd take hours for this life's work to be properly emphasized here. Of course, I don't have that kind of competence, nor do I have time for that, so I'm just gonna make one point, but I think it's crazy important. Namely, in this resolution we made such a sentence, which I think should be re-written, so that it does not get lost among others, I hope, also good sentences: "He grew in an atmosphere of respect for independent Poland, which he remained faithful for the rest of his life. Well, in order for this independence of Poland to exist and be, you need great politicians and statesmen. This is a kind of will for us that may be worth taking in. We are still living in the atmosphere of celebrating the century of regaining independence in 1918, recently, on 10 February 2019 we celebrated the anniversary of the first meeting of the Legislative Sejm. These are our pillars of the concept of independence in the past. As we know very well, independent Poland has raised a whole generation of people who have grown in this atmosphere of regained freedom and independence, and it has become so important to them the achievements of life that they later found themselves in the Home Army, in the National Armed Forces, among the Cursed Soldiers, later in opposition to the 1970s, for example. Mr Rybicki, Gołębiewski or many others, all those who came out of the Second World War under the Stalinist system and then became these authorities in the 1960s, 1970s and subsequent years. Well, patron Jan Olszewski belonged to this Polish independence resource, to which he was faithful and which independence resource was a kind of Polish acquis at the time, when, of course, external conditions also After 1989, we regained our independence. And the question which the patron, Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, asked at the time, this question has already been asked here, 'Whose question is Poland?', this is a question asked by a man who had in him the memory of Poland reborn, i.e. Poland, which is to be composed of independent Poles, and which is to be served by independent Poles by Polish politicians. It is worth considering whether at the time, in 1992, our political class, this solidarity class, consisted only of these courageous Polish carriers Reborn in 1918, or whether we were still in such a state. I'm not talking about the Communists, because of course they were in their state of collapse, and I'm not feeling any empathy to deal with them specifically, I'm talking about our side At that time were there as many Jan Olszewskis as we would like, as we would like, as fortunately in 1918, many were Józef Piłsudski. Did we have this ability at the time, in 1991, 1992, to rise to the Independent, because we had a lot of Janów Olszewski? Of course, among others. That is why today it is worth it, and we should talk about you as Prime Minister Jan Olszewski because he is also a challenge for us for 2019 and every subsequent year. In this political life in which we function as Poles, are there many Jan Olszewskis, or still not enough? And yet we know the answer to the question 'Whose is Poland?'. She's Poles, I mean. all those who are on Polish soil and outside its borders. They have the right to a political class that will be able to bear our Community challenges, needs, hopes, dreams, expectations. Jan Olszewski, as Prime Minister in 1992, undoubtedly took up this collective expectation. It was not a detail that this month, and on that day, it was necessary for the illustrative process to take place. These are illustrations of a much wider dream. The dream of Poles, then independent, was to live in an independent democratic state. A democratic country is one in which Polish society and is capable of obtaining information about who we are as Poles, who are those people who want to represent us. Without this knowledge, policy choice is a seemingly democratic choice. She's a choice where there's some kind of fraud, some kind of pathology. Similarly, another scope of this independence, which was then carried by Prime Minister Olszewski in 1992, is what he did and what he again violated someone's interests, i.e. detention of privatisation. He stopped the privatisation process, which was an apparent privatisation process which was understood positively because he de facto stopped it. developing like webs of the interests of the nomenclature As we know today, not only the PZPR, but also the nomenclature derived from the services, both civilian and military The process of creating the structure of supposedly democratic society on the basis of the structure developed by the totalitarian state. In short, Jan Olszewski was not only an outstanding Polish politician understanding what independence means, because he grew up in reborn Poland, but he was also a brilliantly intelligent man who understood what it means to be an active politician, or prime minister of government. And I repeat: is there a lot of Olszewski Jans on the Polish political stage today? People who are aware of what independence means, and are intelligent enough to understand at what point in history every time the Polish case is located? Let's try to understand this resume of sleep. Jan Olszewski, so that we, as politicians, would try to find ourselves in this question - Whose is Poland? - and each time we were able to bear the answer to this question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u151	Thank you, Senator. Senator Bear, you have a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! A lot of important, important and good words about the character and work of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski came from this stand today. I would like to address a narrow issue, although I think it is very important for the completion of the mission of Prime Minister Olszewski's government. Well, as you may remember, the resolution was tabled by Janusz Korwin-Mikke, President of the party, which was called the Union of Real Policy. At that time, as a young man, at the end of the eighties, at the turn of the eighties and nineties, I built a Union of Real Policy in Upper Silesia. This small, three-person union near the Union of Real Policy, which was then in the Sejm, was not part of the governing coalition, was in opposition. Even though it was submitted by the opposition Member at the time, the illustrious resolution submitted was dealt with with with full responsibility by Prime Minister Olszewski and he took its execution on his shoulders. And here I would like to relieve Senator Libicki in this dilemma of how to vote. Well, the senator said the government lost most of it, and that's why it was called off. Well, Mr. Senator, I would like to point out one thing: how has the government been cancelled? In a violent, immediate manner, at the moment he began to execute the judgment. And let me remind you one more thing: this resolution has not been implemented until today. She's not done. Its performance was then interrupted and it was never done again. So that was the main reason, not losing the majority. That was the main reason why Prime Minister Jan Olszewski and his government were so dramaticly cancelled. I will remind you of one more important point. Because at that time, as an activist of the Union of Real Policy, I watched very closely what was happening in the Parliament hall. And one of the parliamentarians, one of the Members of the time, wanted to extend this resolution. Because this resolution was only about the civilian special forces. One of the Members wanted this resolution to be extended to include military colleagues. And that person was well known to us marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u153	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, I wasn't going to speak at all today... [[Voice from the room: Why today?]] ...because I was convinced... Because when I look at you here, I see that most of us are at such an age that we remember that atmosphere, that time of June 4th. For me it was obvious that this resolution commemorating the great husband of the state, sleep. Mr Jan Olszewski will accept by acclamation that we will not have to vote on this at all. Well, unfortunately, I'm disappointed. And here's what I'm going to say: if I hear these conversations here or those doubts of Senator Libicki, it's... I know why you're having this problem. And I'm gonna say that in a commentary, briefly. Because that kind of applies to this situation. What hurts, Total Opposite? Literally a minute before the beginning of this eighth point, concerning the draft of this resolution, I placed an entry on the social network. Yeah, like I'm predicting what's gonna happen now. And in a commentary, I'll allow this entry to be quoted. It's very short. In advance, I apologize to all those who are very sensitive. Because I personally don't follow this principle, this terror of political correctness. I'm sick of it. And I apologize for the colloquial lyrics. I'll read it to you and that's it: Today's Senate resolution, sleep. Prime Minister Jan Olszewski and the entire government of the Republic of Poland were cancelled by the Soviet agent and the traitors remained until today. This date took place on 4 June 1992. This date wants to use for the current fight for Poland persona non grata, favourite of Germany, repeatedly decorated with German medals Donald Tusk, creating the so-called. June 4th movement. Unfortunately, it was another fraud of the camp of treason and occupation that paradoxically thwarted the death of Prime Minister Olszewski. In connection with his death for several days Poles, especially young people, can learn about the events that took place at that time, and properly assess this attack on our homeland on 4 June. The date this total opposition wants to use for the next election. That's the idea Tusk shot himself in the knee. I think the Poles are smart enough to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u155	You have the voice of Senator Gogacz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to express my joy that we are making such a resolution, despite the sadness connected with the death of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. This resolution, which we are making today, is a tribute, an expression of respect for Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. We show that we remember such people, such statesmen. We should pay even more attention to the fact that the government of Jan Olszewski is a certain cezure in the recent history of the Polish state. It was the first government elected by the fully democratically elected Sejm. The appointment of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski took place on 6 December 1991. Then, of course, the government was appointed. This is a particularly important date, because what happened before that date... Well, of course it was 1989, there were elections to the Senate, then there were partially free elections to the Sejm, but generally before 1991 there was still a period of communism, period of communism. Jan Olszewski's government meant getting out of that period. After all, we Poles, apart from historical knowledge, apart from wonderful examples of our ancestors, national heroes, had no textbooks, we had no instructions on how to get out of communism. How was the government to behave after the first free elections in 1991? What first decisions should he make? What should be the priority? We, all Poles, had great hopes with this government, because we knew that these directions, which would then be appointed, would be exemplary for all subsequent governments, for the next generations of Poles. And that's what happened. Those directions presented to us by the government of Jan Olszewski, in some way are definitely in those decisions that were made at the time. It even expressed itself that... where did the first foreign visit take place? Where did Prime Minister Jan Olszewski go? What country did he go to after he took office? Well, he went to the Holy See, went to the Vatican. This indicated that we Poles are interested in regulating relations between the state and the Church on the way of the concordat. This concordat was later accepted. But there was another direction which, by the very fact that it was adopted by the government, by Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, received some legitimacy, as it were, institutionalized. I'm talking about the fact that you can't sell out national assets that are the most important strategic sectors of the economy. And this is what the government of Jan Olszewski showed. Criticizing what had already happened before the premiere of Jan Olszewski, before the government of Jan Olszewski, and what had happened after the overthrow of the government of Jan Olszewski, we were constantly appealing to the government of Jan Olszewski, who showed that some things can be stopped, that privatisation is wrong and that we must not give up control of strategic branches of the economy. I would like to say that the government of Jan Olszewski carried out such activities, an activity aimed at rebuilding the national economy, to show what the social agenda should be, a political programme in which direction we should go, how freedom rights, economic rights should be guaranteed... Let it also show that long after the overthrow of Jan Olszewski's government, various local initiatives were taken to show that we Poles thank the government for what he did. I would like to recall, for example, the resolution of the City Council of Świdnik, which was adopted in 2011. The resolution of the City Council of Świdnik gave Jan Olszewski honorary citizenship of the city of Świdnik. This resolution came primarily from the fact that, before 1991 or 1991, PZL WSK Świdnik, i.e. those plants producing helicopters, helicopters, signed a very large agreement with the Government of Burma for the delivery of helicopters, helicopters. It turned out that a blockade was imposed on the supply of this type of equipment to Burma by the United States. You couldn't send those helicopters, helicopters, and that threatened the collapse of factories that had over 8,000 employees. And imagine that Prime Minister Jan Olszewski... I told you before he went to the Vatican, but I think the next visit, the second visit, was a visit. In the United States, and in the program of this visit there were also efforts to unlock this sale of helicopters to Burma. And it worked. We did it. The Americans agreed to remove the blockade of sending helicopters to Burma from this agreement. It has been taken off and the people of Świdnik will never forget this to the Prime Minister, they will never forget the gratitude for what has just been done by the Prime Minister. Very important is still Maybe it didn't sound so good. That the western direction, which Jan Olszewski's government emphasized so much... No one before the government of Jan Olszewski emphasized this direction so strongly to NATO, because only during the reign of Jan Olszewski was recorded for the first time in official documents of the Ministry of National Defence that Poland is seeking to join North Atlantic structures, NATO structures. And this is the direction that was followed by the next governments. Well, of course it has already been emphasized, but it should be said once again that the government of Jan Olszewski opposed the creation of joint ventures based on military bases which were abandoned by the Soviet troops. [[It's already Russian.]] It's already Russian, yes. By the Russian troops. A cipher was sent to Moscow, where the President of the Polish State was staying, and this cipher was blocked such an opportunity as the creation of companies with foreign capital. It's been blocked. Of course, we realize how dangerous it would be if this were to happen. But I would also like to say something that I should probably say at the beginning, that I joined, probably like many of us, in the creation of institutional structures, political structures related to Jan Olszewski. Namely after the overthrow of the government of Jan Olszewski, after the so-called. the interrupted premiere, after the night shift, the defence committees of Jan Olszewski, Prime Minister Jan Olszewski and the government of Jan Olszewski were formed. And please note that these were bottom-up actions. The nation did not understand how a good government such as the government of Jan Olszewski could be called off, a government which pursued so many of the goals for which society was waiting. These committees of defence of the government of Jan Olszewski or Jan Olszewski were established very much and on the basis of these committees was established, registered party of Movement for the Republic of Poland. The movement for the Republic of Poland was based on the fact that... Of course, there were political programmes, economic programmes. There were no patterns that could tell us how to form a political party in Poland 3 years after 1989. There were various instructions, sometimes someone from abroad told us, but the fact that this direction was designated was already on the founder of this party Janie Olszewski. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Oh, time's up. I would like to add that in 1995 the Movement of Reconstruction of Poland was established. There were 2 presidents of the Movement for Reconstruction of Poland. Mr Jan Olszewski, of course, was Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, but later Prime Minister Olszewski recommended that I also be the President of the Movement for Reconstruction of Poland. So that I have this honour and the honor that I was also the President of the Movement for Reconstruction of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u157	Thank you, Senator. You have the voice of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret that this draft resolution was not created by consensus. Well, such resolutions concerning the death of a man, some of whom we knew, should be agreed, and the majority should take into account the attention of minorities. But it's not just comments. Because can such a resolution be a political game? In this game you could not use this type of situation and such a resolution. Jan Olszewski was a multicolored, multilateral man. As a young, very young man from an intelligent family, with the connotations of the Polish Socialist Party from the pre-war period, with the life story of a very young man who participated in the Warsaw Uprising... He didn't go into the woods, he didn't become one of those whom some call the Soldiers Cursed I wasn't and I wasn't on the side that cursed those soldiers of the Poak underground after the war, and he managed, like many tens of thousands of young people, to get out of the conspiracy. He went to college, studied and tried to live a normal life as far as possible. A normal, legal life back then. At the time, when it was possible, the opposition PSL showed energy and willingness to change Poland. And when that was not possible, during the Stalinist period, he probably only studied, went back to privacy. It was the path of most young people. Jan Olszewski was a man who lived 88 years, so his resume is not only long but also complex. You can't just lock it in one piece and you can't shape this resume right now according to your ideological ideas. After all, Jan Olszewski was a man who recreated the dormant Masonic lodge in Poland. Then a whole group of this type of people associated with it found themselves in the organization of PPN, the Polish Independence Agreement, in the 1970s, a secret organization, etc. Jan Olszewski was also in the back of Lech Wałęsa, also with a whole group of Lech Wałęsa supporters, who later became his fierce opponents. And you can't say that because it doesn't suit us, we don't write it, we only write half of it, which means he was Lech Kaczyński's advisor. Well, we have to stand on the basis of some historical facts. Because if we're avoiding them, we're using them for today's purposes. Well, when someone had such a long resume and even a shorter resume, the situations were different. Some supported Wałęsa, now they are his biggest critics, and those who were critics of Wałęsa are now not critics of Wałęsa. And that's the fact. Well, there are different personal arrangements, personal relationships, and there are different political arrangements. They were changing. I think that with Jan Olszewski I would have understood more easily than with the author of the draft resolution. Of course, I knew him for many years, especially at a time when he was Prime Minister, and I was the chairman of the parliamentary club "Solidarity." And I knew this situation not from the broadcasts, not from one movie that's biased, but from what I've seen. Because I was in the Seym at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, such a rich human life is, however, more multilateral. Therefore, as I say, I regret that the comments we made at the committee meeting, and we have made them in good faith, have not been taken into account. In the case of such resolutions I am in favour of consensus because we should worship people who deserve it, together, not create a situation that we vote, you do not vote. etc. That's a rule. I understand that the authors of this resolution do not have to accept this principle as their own, but I try to introduce this principle and I think it would be good if it were a principle. All of us. There was a chance to draft this resolution in consensus. In my opinion, he would have been better, more balanced, wouldn't have had different publicistic terms. Well, in such a publicist resolution, the term 'night change', 'day change'... It's just a publicist. Such a resolution does not apply such a publication, but gives a description of how it actually was. Because the Olszewski government was called off in normal parliamentary mode. Of course, the illustration was that dot over and, yeah. But he was losing most of it. He was losing most of it, slowly losing most of it, and eventually he also lost the support of the Centre Agreement, and it was basically the end of this government. And the illustration, throwing these materials on the table that caused such confusion... Well, that certainly accelerated the situation... [[Time's up, Mr. Marshal.]] I am probably asking the Senate majority, at least until the end of this term, because people die, very honest people, people who deserve respect... Jan Olszewski was an honest man, personally very honest, and therefore often behaved unpolitically, which shows that unfortunately honesty is sometimes in conflict with political actions. So let me say again that I hope that the next resolutions of this type will be agreed by consensus and there will not be so many critical votes, you, my, you, my... 'Cause that's how you end up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u159	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You have a voice, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I fully accept the cold, factual appearance of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, but because it happened that the winds of history caused me to participate too... I would say this: history has thrown us to the same place, to the same events, so it seems to me that this voice should be supplemented and other voices corrected. But since the subject which Mr Marshal has asked us in the High House is a resolution, I would like to say immediately that not everyone is right, even those who act in the noblest intentions. The title of this resolution is to be: the resolution commemorating Jan Olszewski, President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland. Although I come from that side or I am on that side, I would say that this is not true or maybe not the whole truth, because it only says that Jan Olszewski was Prime Minister. That's not much, that's very little. You could say it's only six months of being prime minister. We have Prime Ministers and we will have many, different, but I think that if we weigh the value of this person, this scarf will prevail much, which would prompt us to have in the title the words of the lawyer of freedom of man and independence of Poland. I've seen him for many years in these phases of action, in attitudes, and even when I haven't seen... Even now, from the draft of this resolution, but also earlier, I learned that he was unchangeable, that he started by defending a man and his freedom. I think his vision was this: there is no free country if there is no free man. And when the time came to build Poland or even defend it, it was him I think that, contrary to his imagination, plans and perhaps reality, he has undertaken the work of premiere. There was nothing to suggest, both in his case and in many who were then sitting in parliamentary, government, local benches, that they would be immediately predisposed to these roles. That's what I'd call this resolution, but I'm not gonna mess it up, and I'm not gonna make any amendments, although I'm not gonna make two or three more small ones... The Sejm has passed a resolution. It says it's a decision. The decision shall be taken by the administrative authority or the employer. What was he like on that long road I've seen for 20, 30 years? First of all, he wore a mentality, I would say, a conservative, a traditional man, who certainly had such values as honor and homeland, and probably God. We didn't look at worldview files at the time, so I can't say for sure. He showed this attitude not only towards us, colleagues, colleagues, solidarity and independence activists. He also showed it. It was the hardest thing to do with your opponents. At one point there was a belief that Olszewski couldn't be done because he didn't do anything wrong. And indeed, as one listens to his speeches, I listened to one of them in Bydgoszcz. As well as parliamentary speeches, when you read articles, you can see that there are no personal arguments or language of hatred. He had many reasons to submit to emotions as the one who was persecuted, discriminated against, who saw abrasion or presence under his house, under the house where he lived, 2 ruthless totalitarians suppressing human rights, suppressing the rights of sovereign and independent states. I didn't notice, and no one noticed that he was giving his insights or experiences to emotions. He was a very good lawyer. But being a lawyer in Poland... There were a lot of them. There was an intelligence that devoted itself to independence, even though it might have been in the position of her professional career. He filled the ethos, took up the challenge of Polish intelligence, which was not enough to be intelligent lawyers, writers, writers. He thought he had to be a man who fought for freedom. And that's why he was an example to us, to us, people with unstable, underdeveloped views. I'm talking about union activities, and then prisons and transitions. He was drowning, actually making a substantive argument for his proposals. As a man who survived the hekatomba of the Warsaw Uprising, I remember. he warned us against confrontational steps in the face of the introduction of martial law and then. And another thing that isn't happening here... Well, he had Marshal Borusewicz... Because I don't think that's the case with the draft resolution. It was that he asked Poland questions first and then challenges later. One of them is still inside me and I've asked you here, the whole room. Whose Poland and what Poland? It's his memorable speech when he became Prime Minister. Exactly, what direction should we go in? He addressed the Seym to the Senate. Parliamentary Club NSZZ It was the Prime Minister of Solidarity, with the mandate of Solidarity. The parliamentary club had only a delegation to represent postulates, union positions. We were both before the appointment and at the cancellation stopped, for the calendar or there for the chronicle... I wasn't present at all, for other reasons, although of course I wasn't. So this road to freedom and this title, that he was a lawyer of independence of Poland, also appeared. And he could stand up to the union. When the union expected that electricity prices wouldn't rise and that they would rise according to the plan... I remember about 70%. or 100%. It was almost unbelievable in those days, because I was just... [[Time's up, Senator.]] Yes? And, ladies and gentlemen, the last words, because only five minutes... can I, Mr. Marshal, use... [[You're the last one on the list, Mr. Senator...]] But it won't be long. [[...so if you have to, you have the right.]] Good. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I think I'm gonna finish. And in this resolution... Coming back... And you're right to discipline me here. I wish there were only wrong phrases here... But Senator Cichoń cried out from this place that they had betrayed, and in the draft resolution it is also supplemented that they have overthrown... It's me... [[It wasn't overthrown.]] Yes... You said you were betrayed. [[The voice from the room: He spoke.]] You did. [[I told you...]] You did. No, Mr. Senator. You've known him less than I have. I remember... the truth is that he was expecting a lot of changes and often these changes, as it was said... But here's what I'd say: he really canceled it by the resolution of the Sejm. Regardless of circumstances or circumstances, he has fallen victim, like many others, to the freedom he fought for. It's history... it's a curse of history that sometimes people who fight for something become victims. It is the freedom that we all had at the time, which caused Parliament to exercise its right, the free right of appeal. There was no conspiracy. There were difficult circumstances. Lech Wałęsa called Olszewski to the premiere. He's the one who pointed him out. And I'll tell you honestly, he didn't consult anyone because he had the authority to. Ladies and gentlemen, it is written here what I would change, yes: at the same time, resisting attempts to further make the country dependent on Russia. Who then made the country dependent on Russia? You're pointing to someone... It's even been said here, in those speeches... I think Senator Gogach made a statement about these bases. But a few months after that, Lech Wałęsa had some kind of myth I apologize for the term "Jelcyn," which means that in agreement with Yelcyn, which is unbelievable... Can we communicate with Russia at all? And even more so, are these agreements being implemented? 25 years ago, almost 26 years ago, Russian troops were escorted out of the country. So where are the forces that wanted to be in an alliance with the armies? And beyond that, NATO. Yes, Prime Minister Olszewski was on his way to NATO, although the European Communities were less concerned at the time. But then also the main player on stage, I would say even, the only, well, 80% ...proposing Poland's Partnership for Peace, not NATO. I think it was President Clinton or earlier... They just offered us a Peace Partnership so we wouldn't tease Russia. And just then, at this point, We say Soviet troops, get out! Ladies and gentlemen, I say goodbye. It is irrelevant to what is in this draft resolution; even if I vote, it does not matter, so I express it in my speech. Mr Jan Olszewski as a lawyer for the freedom of man and independence of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u161	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[I just want a motion...]] Senator Grabowski has a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u162	In view of the amendment to the current point, please set a deadline for the Legislative Commission to prepare an additional report so that the third reading can take place at this sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u163	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that Senators Ryszka and Mikołajczyk have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u164	Message. The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of the proposals for the draft resolution commemorating Jan Olszewski, President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland (1930/2019) will take place 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. [[How many minutes? 20 minutes?]] 15 minutes after adjournment, Room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u165	We're adjourned until 3:00. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 27 to 15 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u166	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that an additional Senate meeting will be held on 26 February 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating Jan Olszewski, President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland (1930/2019). I warmly welcome the members of the Prime Minister's family, Mr Bogdan Kamionk and Mr Michał Chodakowski. Hello, gentlemen, very cordially. [[Applause]] I also welcome the Members present, Minister Antoni Macierewicz and Minister Bartosz Kownacki. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It's in print no. 1088 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An additional meeting of the Legislative Commission took place shortly after the announcement of the adjournment in today's proceedings. During the meeting of the committee, three senators abstained by a majority. The amendment that was tabled during the debate by Senator Cichoń. The amendment said that in the title of the resolution it should add an honorary role performed by Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, who identified him. That's the word "mecenas." In this way the title would take on such a dimension: a resolution commemorating the patron Jan Olszewski President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, as the applicant, still want to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the amendment in the order of the project footnotes. "Print No 1088 X " followed by the adoption of the project in its entirety as a result of the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on this amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 74 for, 1 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] The amendment was accepted. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 60 were in favour, no one was against, 22 abstained. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution commemorating the patron Jan Olszewski President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Thank you very much and I ask Mr. Bogdan Kamionka very much to accept the content of the resolution already signed. [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. We are returning to the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Gambling. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate printing No 1076 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Gambling. We return to the examination of the second item of the agenda: the law on amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 1072 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! Today, the committee has gathered and discussed proposals for amendments to the Act amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The Commission proposes that the High Senate adopt the conclusions set out in points 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u170	Thank you very much. Do you still want to speak as an applicant? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 harmonises the provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 2 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] Amendments 3, 6, 8 and 12 should be voted on together. They aim to correctly differentiate the date of entry into force of the various provisions of the Act, so as to determine in a clear way what rules are in force at each stage of the implementation of the successive provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 Senators voted, 84 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment No... [[Voice from the room: One was against.]] [[Voice from the hall: Fortunately.]] No, no, no, no, no, One senator was against it. That doesn't change the outcome. But yes, one against. Amendment 5 ensures that the provisions of the Act are properly applied to the extent that they should refer to the applicable provisions of higher education law and not to those which enter into force at a later date. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 83 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 8]] Amendments 10 and 11 should be voted on together. They delete normative unnecessary provisions repeating the principles resulting from a regulation issued under the Public Finance Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Foreigners and some other laws. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Ljubljana on 28 June 1996. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1085 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome to give me the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] As a result of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Ljubljana on 28 June 1996. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Protection Act. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 1069 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Proposals submitted to this draft law at second reading on the basis of Article. 54 (1) (a) Point 4 (2) in conjunction with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The 5 Rules of Procedure of the Senate have not been put to the vote because they go beyond the scope set out in Article. 85c Senate Rules of Procedure. The committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 1069 S. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u172	Thank you very much. Do you, Senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, still wish to speak? [[Thank you, no.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. I would like to inform you that on the basis of the article. 54 (1) (a) Section 4 (2) of the Senate Rules of Procedure will not put to the vote the conclusions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of print No 1069 X because they go beyond the scope set out in Article. 85c of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, i.e. they do not intend to execute the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling. We will therefore proceed with the vote on the draft law in print No 1069 S. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Mark Pęka to represent the Senate in further work on the bill. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm; print no. 1069 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 76 votes against, 7 abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the result of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Environmental Law and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Mark Pęka to represent the Senate in further work on this project. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 70th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We'll proceed to the... [[Voice from the room: There are no statements...]] What do you mean, no statements? There are statements. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. The declaration may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's delivery would not be possible in the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senators' statements, as we all know, are not being discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Jan Libicki, please. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u173	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u174	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I'm making two senator statements. I am the first to address Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, the representative of the government for persons with disabilities, and the presidents of the National Health Fund and the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. I was approached by a lady from Kędzierzyn-Koźla, a disabled person who bought a wheelchair from a rehabilitation company. It was assured that it would be adapted to its needs, and then, after purchasing, it turned out that it was impossible. She intervened in various institutions, among others. in the Ombudsman, this case has been ongoing for 2 years. Can the Minister and the funds I have indicated help you in any way? I'd be very grateful. I will leave here the entire text of the letter that this lady sent to me as an annex to this statement. If any other data were needed, I have the data, I know how to contact it, or I ask you to contact me if there is any intervention. And this is the first statement. The second statement is addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, to Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, and to Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Minister of Energy. At the end of last year, in a rather urgent manner, we adopted a law to prevent increases in electricity prices, among others. by exempting the recipients from excise duty. I then referred to a certain entrepreneur from my constituency, employing more than 800 people, who said that for him, in this old form, this would be an increase in the price of electricity by PLN 2.5 million. This entrepreneur has just received the first invoice for 2019 and this is an increase in energy prices by more than 100 thousand PLN, an increase in the bill year by year is 70%. When this entrepreneur intervened in an energy company, there was a panic and he was asked not to intervene anywhere, he did not talk to anyone, because they do not yet know how to charge these new prices. I do not intentionally state what an energy company it was, because that is not the case, but I would like to draw the attention of the Prime Minister and the Minister that this was the case. I would also like to ask that I be able to obtain information on how this case looks like, whether such signals are coming to you and whether it is an isolated case or if there are more cases and what to do in this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u175	Thank you, Senator. [[I'll leave the lyrics here...]] I'll take it. [[I'll be your marshal. Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Andrzej Kaminski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to make a statement on behalf of the Senators of the Parliamentary Idea Team Robert Schuman. The Senators of the Republic of Poland from the Parliamentary Sculpture Team of Robert Schuman, concerned about the current crisis of the European Union, call on politicians to respect the thoughts and objectives promoted by the fathers of Europe: Jean Monnet, Konrad Adenauer, Alcide De Gasperi and Robert Schuman. One of the main ideas of the founders is in Robert Schuman's mind: to serve mankind finally liberated from hatred of fear; a humanity who, after so long of tearing apart, learns from the new Christian brotherhood. Pointing to the direction of Europe's development, Robert Schuman stressed: "My idea is not to bring together countries to create a superstate. Our European countries are a historical reality. From a psychological point of view, it would be impossible and unreasonable to get rid of them. Their diversity is a good thing and it does not make sense to remove or make equalization or unification. Europe is now on the corner because it has left out the objectives of its integration as indicated by Robert Schuman. There will be no solidarity without reconciliation and unity in a true Christian spirit, and without solidarity there will also be no peace. We are therefore faced with the original challenge that Schuman posed right after World War II, and therefore the need to return to building relations by reconciliation. Unification processes must be accompanied by a strong desire for spiritual values. Without unity of spirit, European unity cannot be built effectively. After all, it is difficult to build a house without permanent foundations, and these are undoubtedly Christian values, present in our culture since the beginning of Europe. This was emphasized by the Holy Father John Paul II on 11 June 1999 in the Seym, saying: "The new unity of Europe should be built on those spiritual values which once shaped it, taking into account the richness and diverse cultures and traditions of individual nations. For it is to be a great Europe of the Spirit. According to John Paul II, this creative fidelity of Christian roots will enable the inhabitants of Europe and its peoples to experience this authentic freedom, which is based on truth, connects with love and sacrifice, grows and expresses itself in the attitude of solidarity and giving of themselves. This is why the Polish Parliamentary Sculpture Team Robert Schuman calls on European parliamentarians to create an ideal faction of Schuman, which can become an important mechanism for Europe's return to Christian values, a faction building the European Community on the assumptions formulated by Robert Schuman, rejecting liberal and relativistic ideologies as contrary to human dignity and properly understood humanism. Christians, including Catholics in particular, have a special responsibility for taking active action in forming Europe, since the roots of Europe originate from Christ and in this context Europe has no other identity. A separation from these roots would lead to the destruction and destruction of Europe. Do we want to move towards a Europe of chaos that destroys unity, solidarity and peace? Or do we want a Europe based on Christian values? The Church is in favour of the integration of Europe, but understood as the Europe of homelands, not as a federation of individual countries. Although the concept of nation and homeland was only developed in the 19th century, it still represents a very valuable value in social life. The Church seeks to preserve these concepts and calls for social life to be shaped on the basis of them. The Church defends national, cultural and ethnic identity of individual countries. It wants to create a Europe of homelands, nations and families, but not a Europe of individuals and the market. Let us respond to the call made by John Paul II in his speech in the European Parliament in Strasbourg on 11 October 1988: "It is Europe, however, for almost 2 000 years, that has provided a very significant example of Christianity's cultural fertility, which, due to its very nature, cannot be pushed into the private sphere. After all, Christendom's calling is public faith and active presence in all areas of life. It is therefore my duty to proclaim the truth firmly that if the religious and Christian foundation of this continent's culture were deprived of its influence on the ethics and shape of societies, it would mean not only denying the entire heritage of the European past, but also a serious threat to Europe's dignified future. And that's all of them. Believers and non-believers. Signed: Chairman of the Parliamentary Idea Team Robert Schuman, Andrzej Kamiński, and members of the team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Bogusława Orzechowska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 4 February 2019 a meeting of representatives of the trade union was held with the Warmia-Mazury Voivodeship Artur Chojecki and parliamentarians from the Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship. During more than 2 hours of conversations, we accepted the demands of solidarity and agreed on the need to organise regular meetings in order to get acquainted with the problems of workers. The "Solidarity" representatives considered the issue of low income for workers to be a problem requiring a particularly rapid solution. Budgets. Teachers' income is equally important. At the meeting, parliamentarians agreed to pass on these demands at the forthcoming Sejm and Senate meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-14-senat-73-2.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the seventy-third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The third session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 15 minutes 42]]
