ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u1	I open the second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Jerzy Wcisła as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 60th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 60th and 70th Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items be considered from the first to the sixth draft agenda, even though the printed matter has been delivered at a later date than that specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the Law on Higher Education and Science After considering the Council of Ministers Act, and considering this point. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of consideration of point two, i.e. Act amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions and the Act on the National Bank of Poland and consider this point as the last point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers, I don't hear any calls. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 70th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland's 11th term of office. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1075 and the report of the committee In print No 1075 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance at its meeting yesterday evenings examined the law on amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and compulsory restructuring and some other laws. The committee's report is contained in print No 1075 A. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. The Act adapts Polish law to EU legislation, in particular to the Directive on the degree of preference of unsecured financial instruments, in particular debt instruments, in the hierarchy of claims during insolvency proceedings. In addition, the Act aims to improve the functioning of the provisions on compulsory restructuring in accordance with the so-called law. the banking problem resolution directive. After a thorough discussion, the Commission proposes as in the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Piotr Nowak. Minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: No.]] No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the second agenda: the Parent's Supplementary Witness Act. The text of the Act is contained in print 1083, and the committee report In print No 1083 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on yesterday's committee meeting, which was very interesting. Many questions were asked, a very deep discussion was held on the Parental Supplementary Service Act. First, let me talk about the document itself and its purpose, before I go to the one presented by the senators. The Supplementary Parental Service Act aims at honoring persons who have raised at least four children and who have resigned or have not taken up long-term care of their children. This solution highlights the important social role of parents, mostly women, in raising children from the point of view of the country's development. The parent's educational work in large families is appreciated in this way. The Supplementary Parental Benefits Act sets out the conditions and modalities for granting such benefits to persons who have born and raised or raised at least four children. It also lays down the criteria for granting the right to this benefit and the rules for its payment and financing. The purpose of the parental supplementary benefit will be to provide the means of living for these people and to combat the poverty of this group of people. The acquisition of the right to benefit will not be linked to the early payment of social security contributions in Poland. The parent supplementary benefit may be granted, at the request of the person concerned, either by the President of the Social Insurance Institution or by the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund by means of an administrative decision after examination of whether the person concerned fulfils all the criteria laid down in the regulation in question. A parent's supplementary benefit may be granted to a mother who has given birth and raised at least four children, and in the event of the death of the mother of the child or of the abandonment of children by the mother of a father who has raised at least four children. What are the criteria for receiving parental benefit? Above all, reaching the required age In the case of a mother at least 60 years old and in the case of a father at least 65 years old and not having the necessary means of subsistence. This shall be determined on the basis of a statement from the applicant confirming whether he remains in employment or is engaged in other economic activities, receives benefits under separate provisions or owns a holding or on the basis of a certificate from the competent tax office which confirms the sources of income and their amount. In addition: having a Polish nationality or the right of permanent residence or residence in the territory of the Republic of Poland in the case of nationals of the Member States of the European Union, Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement, parties to an agreement on the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation or being a foreigner legally resident in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The benefit may be granted to persons residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland and having, after the age of 16, a centre of personal or economic interest in the territory of the Republic of Poland for a period of at least 10 years. Where the person concerned is already receiving a benefit lower than the lowest pension, the parental benefit will supplement the benefit collected up to that amount. In the case of a person who is not entitled to any benefit, the amount of parental supplementary benefit will correspond to the amount of the lowest pension. It is proposed that the draft law should enter into force on 1 March 2019. What is the extent of its impact? The President of the Social Insurance Institution and the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund will grant the benefit at the request of the person concerned, and ZUS and KRUS and pension bodies so-called. Uniform services will be involved in the handling and payment of benefits. The comments received during the consultation pointed out that this benefit could encourage mothers to deactivate their profession. Mothers of four children may not be interested in entering the legal labour market because they will benefit from a wide catalogue of benefits in kind and money for families of many children and will have statutory minimum pension guarantees. What are the financial consequences of this bill? The payment of benefits will be financed from the state budget. According to the estimates contained in the OSR, the annual cost of payment of benefits is from PLN 801 million in the first year, in 2019, after the introduction of the law from 1 March 2019 to PLN 1 billion 104 million in the tenth year of validity. In total, for 10 years the cost for the state budget is about PLN 11 billion. In addition, due to the pension benefits planned from 1 March 2019 the amount of the planned parental supplementary benefit will increase to PLN 1 000 100, which may slightly increase the amount allocated to it. What problems were the discussions at the committee meeting focused on? We mainly sought to clarify whether the provisions proposed in this law are not too open or do not leave too much room for discretion, especially as regards the provision on entitlement to benefits. Namely, this provision is in such a way that, in the opinion of many senators, it does not give equal rights to both parents, i.e. in this case those who would be injured, would be fathers who would not have the same authority as their mothers, and because the situation is increasingly that the parents determine which of them will work, because it depends on the labour market, on a certain family choice, it was emphasized that there is no equality here. In this connection, an amendment was tabled by one of the senators on this issue. In addition, it was noted that the records would make it difficult for the body to make decisions because of their high indeterminateness, such as: a father who raised at least four children, in the event of the death of the mother of the child, or the abandonment of children by the mother, or in the event of a prolonged cessation of parenting by the mother. In particular, there was a very broad discussion about the latter. The Minister interpreted this as an equal right for fathers, allowing them also to have the opportunity to obtain parental supplementary benefits, but some senators claimed that it was not written explicitly, unambiguously, and only then would it be a correct situation. Proving that the other side is the mother in this case She stopped raising children for a long time... Well, it doesn't stand for this situation when both parents take care of their children, but care rests mainly on their father, because it was so decided in this marriage, in this relationship, in this family, that doesn't mean that the other side, in this case the mother, doesn't take care of the child. So this kind of indeterminateness we see as a very serious flaw. But on the other hand, Minister Zielenecki, who presented the bill on behalf of the government, indicated this openness of the law as a value, because this allows to accommodate very different situations that we want to take into account. So that this attempt to reconcile the state itself On the one hand, the width and response to various individual situations that did not allow a person to receive a pension, or on the other hand... This is a matter of assessment of the High House. In my opinion, the fact that a number of things are so wide open here will, first of all, lead to difficulties in the authority's decision to do so, then will also cause recourse to the benefit, however, if the decision were negative... But these are the diwags about a law that really wants to be very large. It's to be used by 80,000 people who don't have that kind of authority right now. There were questions as to why such extensive documentation, which is required here, would it not be possible to simplify it and whether this law could be less complicated, also as regards the documentation which will be submitted either in the CRUs or in the CRUs. Well, it's important to remember that it's not a retirement, how popular in publicism it started to be called that it's a benefit, and that it's about the situations of people who didn't get different benefits or have no income. It is also about situations where someone has income or has partial income, below the lowest pension, and when he has income lower than the lowest pension, it will be equal to the lowest pension. But in order to do that, you have to find out, you have to have the right documents. It is also necessary to document your economic situation very precisely, which indicates that no revenue is available to allow a certain contribution to the budget and to enable that person to obtain a supplementary benefit. Three amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. I've already mentioned one about saving paternity as equal or the father's situation to equalize with his mother's situation. An amendment was also tabled concerning a new benefit, which would be for families of very large children, i.e. not four and more children, but for example seven and more children. The Minister's comment and reply on this matter were that it was above all beyond the statutory framework and, moreover, from the preliminary calculations of the Ministry, it appears that such a solution would be extremely costly, from the Minister's mouth the amount of PLN 5 billion as a sum which would have been required if such an amendment had been accepted. Let me remind you that this solution is this year about PLN 1 billion, next year PLN 1 billion 100 million. As a result, the Commission adopted a proposal to adopt a law without amendments, 1 person was against this solution, the rest were in favour of this solution. I think that's it for the report, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go, Senator Wach first.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u6	Thank you kindly. Mr. Senator, I have this question: was the matter of a conflict with maintenance obligations discussed and raised during the committee meeting? Yeah, I think there might be a collision. And if it wasn't discussed, would you be kind enough to convey your position on this matter? I'm asking you as a specialist in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, High Izbo...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u7	But the moment, Lord... [[Yes?]] ...Senator, because we're going to group questions. Senator Jarosław Duda. Three people... Senator, you're welcome. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u8	Thank you very much. I absolutely agree with the rapporteur on what he said, that there is a lack of this act of sharpness and there is a very large possibility of discretion here. We raised this at the committee meeting, which would be a difficult decision to make by granting such a benefit, if I recall correctly, the president of the Social Security Office... [[Or KRUS.]] ...or KRUS in terms of how to examine whether the father who is disfellowshipped today will be able to receive this kind of benefit someday. Therefore, it seems that it would suffice to introduce this amendment, i.e. If the father and mother, and we had this subject in my opinion, we would be closed. Especially since there won't be much of a situation like this. If you don't mind, it's one more short question. I'm a little late, I'm sorry, but the plane's late. Was it about why this concerns the 4 plus family and not 3 plus family, because it has long been accepted in Poland that the multi-child family is 3 plus? But couldn't you say so, simulate it here, and give it to three kids instead of four? The more that the amount, for perfect, as far as I'm concerned, the condition of the budget This year, it is PLN 808 million, in the future about PLN 1 billion, perhaps it would keep this up. Did she mention that? I will ask the Minister: did this kind of work, in this regard, last? Would you mind referring to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u9	Thank you very much. And one last time in this round. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u10	The issue of pensions for those taking care of children has been regulated many times in social policy laws. It has always been accepted that those who cannot work because of care will be compensated by the contribution to the pension fund, for example. by the employment offices. Was it said about why there is no such systemic solution now that would provide mothers, fathers and all those who look after children, pensions in the future? It would be on a non-simple basis, but on the basis that they would be paid contributions to the Social Security Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by saying alimony and a supplemental benefit. The problem was not discussed during the committee meeting. However, the problem is, of course, very serious. Well, we can imagine the situation that the mother Because most often she will benefit from this benefit, she could obtain from a well-earned partner or husband, in any case the father of children, high child support for both children and herself, and this child support that would exceed the amount of the supplementary benefit. The question then arises: is it justified? I do not find the answer to this and I do not find in this huge catalogue, actually several pages, where conditions are mentioned, which need to be checked and which condition it to get this... I didn't see... Maybe I'm wrong, but if I didn't see it, I'm sure that Minister Zielenecki, who is here and is listening to our debate right now, will fill in my statement and explain what the issue of alimony looks like. I would also point out that if it hadn't been here I didn't notice the issue of alimony in this census. This could be deactivating in this direction in order to establish alimony. Well, in a situation where there are any problems arising from putting children in the family, it should be, and it is, a rule to get alimony from both the nearest person and family members, according to the family code and caring. Well, it actually strengthens the family, the fact that there are responsibilities and the family does those responsibilities. So that this has not been discussed, but the problem is of course very important. [[It's also about grown-ups.]] The second case concerns fathers. I have already said in my report that the senator has tabled an amendment in this regard which, if accepted, would put fathers in a very clear position, in a similar situation as we have. That's not here. With regard to the issue of some discretion, I will give one example that makes a very impressive impression on me. I don't know how the authorities can handle this, and I don't know if it's gonna be a problem. Namely it may be that the family has four children, but for one child It's a foster family. Well, it is not determined how long this child should be in this family to be considered to have four children in this family. My question, which I did not actually get the answers to at the committee meeting, was whether it was supposed to be a month or five years old. Well, it could be any of those periods, but I don't know which one of them is gonna be entitled to that. We can have, for example. imagining that six months is enough to consider that there were four children there, and therefore for many years, perhaps several years, a benefit would be paid. Well, in my opinion, it would be better if this were defined more precisely, e.g. in such a way that the child must be in foster care not less than 10 years old. I'm just throwing away this idea, but it should be a long time, which suggests that some effort has been put into caring for this child. That would be more appropriate. Senator Duda's next question: why not 3 plus? Indeed, this question was raised at the committee meeting. I don't remember, frankly, the Minister's answer, but I assume that was the following answer. If it were 3 plus, the number of people to receive it would increase significantly. Right now, we're talking about about about 80,000 people. It's about four and more kids. If it were for three or more children, it would probably be hundreds of thousands of people, so there would be costs of not PLN 1 billion, but many billion. And it's always like it starts with something. You don't cover all of them right away, just the ones where the situation allows for it, but you also need it the most. For this reason, it was considered that having four and more children were the situation in which you could afford it. There aren't many of these situations. This system can be tested without immediately introducing this benefit to hundreds of thousands of people, which would be difficult, for example, from the point of view of making decisions. We already said it wouldn't be that easy. Well, the more appropriate solution is to start with a relatively narrow group, but of course you should also think about other groups. And then there's the matter of contributions to the employment offices. It's a little different system. Unfortunately, Senator, no one asked that question. This issue was not the subject of the High Commission yesterday.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Oh, there are more questions. Senator Grażyna Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question. In fact, my colleague authorized me to ask this kind of question. And what about women who raised more than four children and worked, but through breaks at work, maternity leave and free leave, they have reduced pensions? Why should they be punished for this? For these women... Because it mainly concerns women who are already retired or are getting close to it. Don't you think these women deserve compensation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u15	Thank you. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Were the following issues considered at the committee meeting? The first is, I'd say, technical. As to the ideality of this law, I am convinced, but I have a technical question. The point is that, in order to obtain this benefit, a number of technical conditions must be met. Here are the certificates for cases that change, the certificates for the number of children, these different family situations. This also applies to broken families But also certificates of various... Let's be honest: there are a lot of income that can be made today. This, of course, changes over time. The question is: who will verify these changes? I ask this because the Act does not indicate an annual obligation, I repeat my statement. That's the first question. And second question. How this benefit will affect the loss of other benefits to large families, e.g. Housewives? In addition, it was considered that income was included in the so-called revenue. Social allowances, e.g. For veterans, war invalids, anti-communist opposition activists? These allowances are not profitable, but compensatory, they are a manifestation of social justice, and sometimes they have an honorable character. Were these issues considered?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u18	Thank you. I'm talking about the cost of this solution. As I understand it, they're going to be about 800 million to 1 billion at the moment. Yes? That's about it. [[Yes.]] So I would like to ask what is the multi-children ratio. I mean. Will these amounts be increasing in the future, or will they be decreasing? How's it look? Did you talk about it on the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u19	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with the last question. We were just talking about it on the phone. As the lowest pension increases, this benefit will increase. So, of course, this is the situation. And that has to be taken into account. About what you asked Senator Shark, I mean. women who do not have the lowest pension, only have an amount lower than PLN 1 thousand 100, because that will be as much from 1 March, they, according to the provisions of this law, will have a supplement to this lowest amount. There's a supplement here... Because if I understood the question correctly... Oh, that wasn't the point, was it? Isn't that the situation? So someone gets a benefit that is less than PLN 1 thousand 100 on March 1, 2019. I realized that this is the question of whether there will be an equalization. [[I was talking about the fact that women in their jobs have a reduced retirement due to their abortions.]] But to what extent do they have this reduced pension? Because it's important. [[It can be different...]] [[Different. Different, because here everything depends on how long they worked, what position, etc., etc.]] I get it. But the lowest pension is guaranteed. [[I'm the one who knows it's guaranteed.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Good. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot engage in this dialogue.]] I'm sorry. Excuse me, Miss Marshal. [[No, no, I want to explain that I mean that it should be... in my opinion it should be compensated... what about those women who lost some income during their professional career just...]] [[Did the senator understand the point of the question? Good. Thank you very much...]] Yeah, because here... [[Is there anything else to add, Senator?]] Yeah, because there might be... Of course, depending on the actual situation, there may be different answers, but I assume they have a minimum pension. But this bill doesn't provide for any kind of allowance in the event of interruptions in the work. [[That's too bad.]] Well, you could say that this bill starts a certain way and will create a system... The future belongs to those who will seek such solutions for the good of families. [[I hope so.]] But this bill is not being proposed at the moment. Senator Rulewski was right to show this mass of documentation that needs to be obtained. How it's gonna affect... I don't know, because yesterday we didn't give such examples, we didn't talk about whether it would affect, for example. for benefits or for the possibility of obtaining a housing allowance. Unfortunately, this was not the subject of yesterday's discussion, so that I cannot answer that question. I think that Minister Zielenecki, who consulted on this matter, and also presented the position of the government at the committee meeting yesterday, will show how this can work in various situations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u21	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Senator Piotr Wach. There you go. [[I already asked, I didn't volunteer again, so...]] I see. So the senator doesn't have a question. Are you Senator Jarosław Duda? [[I have a question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u22	Senator rapporteur, was it mentioned at the committee's meeting that this piece of legislation that has been tabled could contribute to deactivation in the perspective? Because we can imagine that, today or in the coming years, guaranteeing such a provision to a person who has four children may, however, result in a lack of professional activity on her part, as she will be aware that such a benefit will be paid anyway. Could the senator refer to this? Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. There you go. And then Mr Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u24	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question about the fact that the bill refers to raising four children. What if one of the children dies before they reach adulthood? This is one situation. And two: a woman reaches retirement age, and one or two children have not yet reached 18 years old. Will these women be included in this bill too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u25	Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go. And in a minute, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u26	Mr President, have you considered a situation in which there are fewer than four children in the family, but there is a disabled child who is not entitled to care in the light of the provisions of the Act and the mother is not working? Was such a case considered as an exception to the rule? I have understood your statement in this way: the ratio legis of this law is that to those who, for reasons of caring, could not work, we compensate for this in such a way that they are granted this benefit. The situation I am talking about would be similar, but caused by the functioning in the family of a disabled child, which, as you know, is a huge burden Have you considered such situations? Were there any simulations on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u27	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, such a case was not discussed yesterday. This is an interesting situation that shows that... if you have three children, including one disabled child, the situation may be more difficult than when you raise four or five children. I think the High House agrees with that. But this kind of situation does not include such proposals in this regard. On the issue of professional deactivation, during consultations, as the Ministry points out, such voices appeared. I didn't arrive... I didn't have any serious research that would indicate that this was actually going to happen. It's obvious. I have already presented this, but you also know from the stages of the drafting of this law that where there are a group of children, four and more, it should be taken into account in this small pension which is proposed... 'Cause it's the lowest she's ever been. Individual situations may be very different, but I am convinced that in my mass they will find a response to the intention of a law which... The purpose of this law is neither professional deactivation nor professional activation, but support for those parents who raised a larger group of children. These children then enter the labour market and create nothing but what we call a retirement fund. After all, our pensions don't come out of nowhere, just because the next generation takes over this responsibility. There are families who, when they raise their children, care for their children, make sure that this system can function even more. Without new employees there will be no ZUS or KRUS, which pay the funds. So it is also a requirement of some justice, and in this sense it is also necessary to read this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u29	Have you answered all the questions, Senator? [[Yeah, I guess so. I feel like I do.]] Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, let me ask you a little perverse. Did the committee hear a voice on why this bill was so complicated? Couldn't you just write in a few sentences that women who raised at least four children Maybe the fathers also, I apologize and have not acquired pension rights of at least a minimum pension, just the amount to be paid? The end, period, without any additional records of who has a property situation, where he gets his money, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u31	Thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Please. [[No, I'm backing out. I'll ask the Minister questions later.]] Thank you very much. Senator Tomasz Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u32	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm gonna go over the subject that Senator Shark brought up. Whether the committee's meeting was analyzed... the women who raised four children and worked, gave the country GDP, and for that they got a better or worse pension. Was it determined why they should be worse and can't get for raising four children plus work... Why are they discriminated against by this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u34	Thank you. Senator, benefits are not mandatory, but optional, considered individually and need to be proved that they can be used. This is very complicated, as Senator Borowski said, and also applies to others. foreigners, people with disabilities. It's up to the president of the ZUS or the president of the KRUS. Here's the question. If someone doesn't agree with this decision, what will the appeal process look like if it's not mandatory, it's optional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u35	There you go, Mr. Senator, your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I will answer Senator Borowski's question as to whether the question was being asked, whether this bill could be simpler. I even asked such a question, I asked the Ministry whether, as a result of the discussion that was held in Parliament, but also in the country, because it was devoted to the whole publicist, there were some reflections of the ministry that some simplification could be made. We have received a very broad answer from Minister Zielenecki that the more the matter of this law was involved, the more the conviction that the solutions that are written in it are appropriate that this is not possible... Simple example. Imagine that a woman, a mother, raised five children, has a huge home that benefits her greatly. As proposed by your marshal, this person, regardless of the benefits obtained, could benefit hundreds of thousands of zlotys per year, would receive this right. I don't think it would be socially well taken at the moment. If we collect documents in an extreme situation, as I have shown, we also collect documents and check the income situation for various other elements. Of course it would be... That's the concept, so that's what it looks like. About why he's being discriminated against... At the committee's meeting there were no statements at all, vocabulary related to the discrimination or unequal treatment of other groups, because this is not about discrimination. This is about the beginning of a system, about taking into account the work of parents, the homework, the work of raising children, and it starts with this group with quite a number of children, because four plus. And you shouldn't draw any conclusions from that, no one at the committee's meeting concluded that a family that has three children or has seven children is discriminated against, mistreated, etc. I think it's an unauthorized motion. But surely in connection with this law, with this discussion that has been held, one should wonder how to go further. This is certainly not the last step in this area, because it is beginning to take into account the work of parents at home, and what the future will be, it depends on government and parliament. But that's definitely not the last word. I feel like I missed Mr. Rulewski. If he wanted to remind me in one word what the question was... Was there a question? [[It will be.]] No, it wasn't. I'm sorry. [[No, no, he'll be here.]] Ah, it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u37	He'll be here any minute, yeah. Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll be asking the Minister's question later, but I'd like to make sure... This is, in my opinion, the most controversial issue and it is complicated. How does it feel to verify whether a person who seeks such a benefit does not have the necessary means of subsistence? In the explanatory memorandum and in the law itself, you can read about the various sources of these means of subsistence. Well, the situation is quite clear when such a lady has her pension, because in such a case you simply compare this pension with that minimum pension. It's obvious here. It is also said that such a person cannot remain in employment or engage in other economic activities, receive benefits under separate provisions, have an agricultural holding, etc. In fact, it is not known whether it can or simply would have to show that there is no necessary means of subsistence, i.e. to some level, which is not in fact described in the bill... How's it all looking? And what I'm most interested in is probably the most common situation, that is, the one where the lady lives in the family, that is, living with her husband, who has his pension or is employed, earns her income. How will her situation be assessed under such circumstances? Will the income of her partner, her husband, be taken into account as a means of living for the person who is seeking this benefit or not? Will there be a study of the relationship between these two people? Because it's not always perfect. How does this work, and how will it be assessed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u39	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u40	This is, Senator rapporteur, a question for you, because the government, I suspect, would answer bureaucratically but I don't warn you... Senator rapporteur, you have a lot of experience and knowledge in family law. I have a question about whether it's a confession to a certain disaster or maybe a family crisis. I speak very briefly because this is what the procedure requires. The fact that parents are giving birth is that they are raising these children in a long way, as the law says, but that they do not receive from these four children, fours, not one, satisfaction in the form of care and assistance, so you must step in. Isn't this a crisis of values, a family axiological crisis? Children don't give alimony, let's face it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u41	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur? If not, we will close this stage. No. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u42	I'll start by asking Senator Rulewski. In fact, family law provides for... It's not because of a whim, it's to maintain the integrity of the family to maintain the functions of the family. I think it's really bad that we're out of this. I mean alimony. On a daily basis, it should be the maintenance of their parents by older children. It also strengthens family ties, arouses interest, and when care is needed, and not only money, this care appears. So that from the point of view of family strength this solution is the best, and the state should enter into this subsidiary, i.e. when the family cannot cope. Indeed, on the one hand, it is a family crisis, and on the other hand it raises a question of social policy, which is going to strengthen the family or replace the family. Such a charge can be made, and in any case consider whether the state, by overtaking the various functions of the family, does not replace it and de facto, even though it says that it is about strengthening the family. It doesn't weaken. That's the first line. But it wasn't discussed yesterday at the committee meeting. The examples you gave Senator Radziwiłł, unfortunately, were not discussed during the committee meeting. There have been other examples and we have been concerned about how decisions will be made in these cases when there is such great discretion. Well, we've been persuaded by the Minister that this is typical of such laws and that, from the point of view of case law, including the Supreme Court, it's self-defense and it's to be done. So that I think the Minister will be able to answer this question meticulously, and I will say that this was the case during the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marcin Zielenecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u44	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for the discussion so far, and during yesterday's session of the Senate Committee, and today's plenary session, for many interesting questions. I would like to start by presenting to the High House a social problem which is addressed in the law adopted by the Sejm on 31 January 2019 introducing a new benefit, called parental supplementary service. This social problem is the problem of 85 000 people, women and men who have already reached retirement age, reaching the age of 60 for women and 65 for men, having born and raised or, as is the case with men, raised at least four children, contributing to the multiplication of generations of people who today are active and pay social security contributions, and because they have limited their professional activity in the so-called. the working age, today they are deprived of the provision of a self-employed person in the form of a pension in the amount of at least the lowest benefit, or have such a benefit, but the amount of that benefit is lower than the amount of the lowest pension. This is the design of this benefit and, you can say, this design is subject to precisely these assumptions, those goals that we want to achieve. And this is the goal of giving those people I mentioned just an independent source of income in the form of complementary parental benefit. By listening also to the content of the discussion that we are already discussing here, I would like to present to the High House the systemic context, because these elements in the questions of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators have emerged. The question was whether, during the discussion in the committee, the use of other instruments was being considered, for example, financing, as Senator Augustine said, from the Labour Fund contributions to pension and pension insurance for people who devote themselves to raising children, giving up their jobs or restricting their professional activity. After all, ladies and gentlemen, this is how it is today. The system solutions that are now enshrined in the Social Security Act are precisely that, regardless of the number of children born and raised or raised in the family, a person who limits his or her professional activity in order to personally take direct care of one child, two, three, four or more children, has the right to finance contributions to pension and pension insurance from the state budget. This is a system solution. Since 1999, the State budget has financed in full the contributions to the pension and pension insurance of persons receiving maternity benefits, i.e. those on maternity and parental leave, but also those on parental leave. Since 2013, exactly from 1 September 2013, we have been financing these contributions also for other categories of persons, even without an insurance title, who take care of children during the period, you can say, equal to the period of parental leave. What does that mean? This means that in the so-called system. A defined contribution, where the contribution, as Senator Augustine rightly observes here, is a measure that, so to speak, our pension rights, this support of parenthood, support of parenting functions is precisely that the state budget finances contributions for these people. If we take a closer look at this solution, we will note that this period in the case of multi-child families, where the birth of the child in the family was at appropriate intervals, the period during which the state from the budget finances contributions to pension and pension insurance, may be, I would say, debt. In the case of people who raise four children, this may be a period of up to 16 years, because we have an annual period of maternity allowance during maternity leave and parental leave, and we have a 3-year period of exercise of this right... I mean. This is an equivalent period of parental leave. It can be said that when parents wish to benefit from or when one parent wishes to exercise in full the powers that the labour code gives to such a person or what insurance laws give him, it is a period of 4 years per child. So in the case of multi-child families, this could be a multiple of this period. This is a form of systemic support for families in which one parent limits his professional activity in order to personally devote himself to raising children. When we look from this perspective at the solutions that are proposed in this law, we can ask ourselves: where does this number of 85 000 people come from who do not have the right to benefit? Well, they don't have the right to benefit, Ladies and Gentlemen, because that's not always the case. Not always, and hence the numbers. If we take a closer look at this number of 85 000, we will note that this number consists of about 65 000 people who do not have the right to a pension in the general social security system at all, and the number of about 21 000 people who have such a pension, but it is lower than the amount of the lowest pension. Let us ask ourselves: why is this so? That's why. I'm talking about this first group of 65,000 people who don't have the right to a pension at all. That we are talking about people who are covered by the old pension system, so-called. a system of defined benefit, a system in which periods of childcare, periods of parental leave have not been treated as periods of contribution. No contributions were paid at the time, so-called. non-contributory periods. They were to a very limited extent taken into account in the traineeship on which they depend and the right to a pension and the amount of the pension. They were taken into account to a very limited extent. If someone has not completed an insurance internship of 20 years in the case of women and 25 years in the case of men, he has not acquired any pension rights at all. Persons covered by the old pension scheme are persons born before 1 January 1949, those who today are 70 years old and over and are not entitled to a pension. This law, as it were, proposes to honor the difficulty that has been associated with the upbringing of a large number of children in a multi-children's family, but it also aims, you can say, to eliminate this defect that has occurred in the old pension system. You're talking about discrimination or inequality. I can use that word for a situation that's happening today. We are talking about discrimination, about unequal treatment of insured people who have dedicated themselves to raising their children, giving up their professional aspirations, and therefore have not worked out their pension in the amount of the lowest pension. I'm going back to what I started with, which is the idea of a social goal. This law pursues this objective, i.e. is used to honor this effort and, as I said, to eliminate the absence, the flaw, the gap that occurs here, the inequality in the system, I would say, system or intergenerational, because the legislator treats different categories of insured here differently due to the date of birth. I believe that this is a law that restores some justice in the wider social security system. What I'm trying to say is it's a very thought-out bill. The solutions that are included in the bill are not accidental. Discussion during the committee meeting... During this discussion, I tried to pay attention to these assumptions. So much for the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u45	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. The first question you ask is Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u46	You've heard my questions. If you'd be kind enough to answer me, I'd ask for an answer. My first question, basically, is this. You mentioned that this is a deeply thought-out bill. Does this profound thought mean that we put aside family codes, thousands of years of legal and unlawful actions of humanity that indicate identity Parents for children, children for parents. Does this mean that the PiS will be a daddy and a mommy for the family, for the children, for the retiree and for the pensioner? Does this mean that we are returning to a socialist vision that has never and nowhere come true, that this country will shape the economic model of the family?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u47	Thank you very much. Senator Jarosław Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u48	Minister, we've already talked about this, although perhaps not precisely. In Poland, as I said, it was accepted that there are associations, non-governmental organisations operating in the area of 3 plus. It is widely accepted that they are already families of many children. Did you simulate how much it would cost for a family of 3 plus? Is that the 5 billion, or is that another amount? If we're gonna get really serious about this, maybe it's worth a little extra, because three kids in the family are already a challenge. Anyway, everyone's a challenge. The question is, how much did you simulate this? I'm gonna insist on it all the time. If your marshal would allow me to ask... A simple record that both the father and the mother can actually be a bearer and it would be settled. Otherwise, the president of the CSO will wonder why, and how, and how, and how, and how to document it, who will document it. It seems to me that simplicity in this good project would be absolutely desirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u49	Thank you very much. Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u50	Minister, I would like to ask you the same question as has already been the subject of such a brief exchange of thoughts between me and the chairman of the committee. Namely, what will be the situation of assessing the right to this benefit in the case of a family where two parents are still alive? Well, this case concerns, for example. her mother, her husband has income, she has no income, she has no business, she is not employed, and her husband has some sources of livelihood. How will it be assessed whether it has the means or does it not have the right means to maintain it? Whether anyone's gonna check the relationship between these parents, etc.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u51	Thank you very much. I'll give you the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u52	Maybe I'll start with the last question. I apologize for this order, but this issue was discussed at the committee meeting. I will say that this is a law that makes the possibility of granting a benefit subject to one condition, i.e. Several conditions, of course, but among others. the condition of the absence of a source of subsistence for the person applying for the benefit. Thus, it can be said that in the assessment of the right to benefit, we take into account entitlement to benefits, but also to other sources of subsistence, which include the personal rights of the applicant. In this case, which the senator is talking about... Besides, even during the committee meeting, we discussed this kazus. In case... And yet these are not actually isolated situations, because very often the decision that one parent decides to take care of, to raise a child, is conditional on the achievement of high income by the other parent. One parent takes on the burden of supporting the family, and the other parent, you might say, is dedicated to raising a child. So what I want to say is that the effect of this after retirement age can be that this pension that a parent who has worked for is a decent pension is a high pension, a pension that can sustain... [[Brave.]] I said there were cases, I don't want to, let's say, generalize, but there are cases. There are families in which the amount of income and during working life, and during the period after retirement age, is taken into account when deciding on this... It's natural, you can say, part of the decision-making process. So I can immediately reassure that retirement and any other benefit, remuneration, income from the business that the other spouse achieves, the one who, you can say, maintains the family, are not taken into account when assessing the right to benefit. In this sense, we are talking about honoring this educational effort, which was undertaken by the parent who resigned from his job or reduced his professional aspirations and thus did not earn his own personal income in the form of a pension. So that I would answer this question in general and I think that this is the answer to various such, let's say, more detailed questions about different sources of income. As for the issues that you asked Senator Duda about, the number of children under the care or the birthright that determines the right to provide... It's just that again this number is actually based on some simulations, interconnective comparisons. If we look at the new pension system, this system, which includes people born after 31 December 1948, we will see that, as I said, the instrument of the country's family policy is the financing of contributions to the pensions of people who raise children and look after children. And actually that number of four children is based on arithmetic. I explained that in the event that parents wish to make full use of their rights in relation to the financing of pension and pension contributions from the state budget... This period during which the budget finances contributions may be 4 years per child. It can also be more, e.g. when this care is provided for the disabled child. The topic of people with disabilities also appeared here, because in the case of children with disabilities is so-called. double parental leave. I mean. In addition to such a standard three-year period of parental leave, a parent can use, and this to reach the age of a child, also a second holiday. And in total, this period may be 6 years, and if you add to that periods of maternity allowance, even 7 years per child. But, like I said, it's standard four years for a baby. It can be said that in the case of three children, this maximum funding period for social security contributions would be, let's say, the extreme 12 years. So in this case, the State takes on the burden of financing contributions for 12 years, and then it has, as I say, a reflection of the pension. These mechanisms looked different in the old retirement system. As I mentioned, there we treated childcare periods as non-contributory periods, but at the same time the right to retirement was subject to the length of the contribution and non-contributory periods. And such a minimum premium and non-contributory period, which in the old system gave the right to a pension, so-called. under-retirement, that was a 15-year period. So you could say that this number of four children is related to the fact that... this is a certain structure of a systemic nature. She fits into those solutions that we have today in the pension system, but at the same time allows as if to honor this task of raising children undertaken by people who were covered by insurance in the old pension system. And from here, you could say, you take this number, these four kids.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal, may I ask you a question? Thank you very much, Minister, for these comprehensive explanations, but my question was very simple. Three plus... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: When it comes to...]] I mean. You did a plus, okay. But how much would it cost 3 plus?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u54	At the moment, I can't give you such... [[But you did a simulation?]] Probably, but as I say, I can't do it right now... I can answer in writing. [[I would ask that very much, because it is interesting from the point of view of such a public discussion which is taking place around this law.]] Respect isn't easy. I'll tell you right away. In view of the manner in which the conditions are laid down. We need to know what the number of insured people who gave birth or raised four children is. We need to separate these functions of father and mother, because the assumption is that one parent, precisely the one who took up the challenge of raising a child, will benefit from this solution. And, of course, there is also the question of the right to a pension and whether or not a person benefits from such a right, so it is not an easy estimate, but we are able to present such estimates. [[Please.]] [[Thank you very much...]] Senator Duda's second question was... We've been discussing this for quite some time. It's about father and mother. I'm just convinced, Senator, that I'm right. [[I thought the Minister had thought...]] I don't want to quote this article here. 3 (1) (a) One bill, but maybe I'll pay attention again. As the article says. 3 (1) (a) 1 of this law, the benefit may be granted, first, to a mother who has given birth and raised or raised at least four children, second, to a father who raised at least four children, in 3 cases... [[We're different...]] ...i.e. In the event of a child's mother's death, the mother's abandoning the child... And now the third case. I pay attention to this clause, to this clause, because it is very large. This is also true in the case of a long - term cessation of motherhood. So that I think that this... [[I feel sorry for the president of the CSO, I really...]] We, of course, consulted widely this project with the President of the CRUS, the President of the CRUS. And as I say, I'm convinced that here... Besides, we have, so to speak, a well-established practice, because similar benefits, based on similar assumptions, are already in the pension system today. I am referring here to pensions by way of exception, which are also granted by the President of the Social Security Office, the President of the CRUS, also based on relatively well, strongly, harshly defined conditions. Here these conditions are even more precise. I think that judicial practice will also allow us here to develop a legal line to the extent, let's say, that these conditions are not quite strict. Senator Rulewski asked me about a certain axiology of the pension system. I would say that, Senator, that in general you are... And this is also due to the constitution, from the provision that we have in the article. 67 Constitution that a citizen is the right to social security and the State is the organizer of the social security system. This is a law that I have no doubt about; we also discussed it in the committee. It is part of the wider social security system. And for this reason it can be said, it is precisely constitutionally, and systemicly, and axiologically justified law. I would like to draw your attention to another matter that may have slipped away in the course of an earlier discussion. I mean, I'd like to draw your attention to a certain difference in this benefit, because even this... Notice that this law does not change to any extent It doesn't even change a comma, not even a dot. These laws, which are of a systemic nature and concern social security in the event of retirement age. I'm thinking about the FUS pension and pension bill, I'm thinking about the farmers' social insurance bill. Let me put it briefly: these provisions are not changed in any way here. This is a law which on the one hand does not change the assumptions of the pension insurance system, but on the other hand eliminates certain shortcomings, weaknesses, gaps which, let's say, were in the old pension system, including the defined benefit system. And in these categories, you have to look at it. Finally, one more comment on the source of funding for this benefit. Pension benefits of persons who receive their social security entitlements shall be financed by the Social Insurance Fund (FUS). Here we are dealing with the state budget as a source of funding for this benefit. It can be said that this is a supply-related benefit addressed to persons who have been excluded from the general social security system by failing to meet their traineeship requirements. Thank you. [[Excuse me, I'd like to say something.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u55	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u56	I think there's been a misunderstanding, because I was asking about the compatibility of this law with the provision of an eternal and universal family code around the world. And so I'm saying that the article you referred to has mouths. 2. And he says if the citizen doesn't have any other means of living I mean, there's a situation where there's a family that can help, kids that can help. It is only then that the State should enter with legal assistance. This is the second... It's in the constitution, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u57	Thank you very much. You've exhausted the subject, haven't you? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Yes, thank you.]] Good. Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Then, gentlemen, Senators Piotr Wach and Thomas Grodzki. There you go. [[But, Minister, there's still a forest of hands...]] Minister, I asked if... [[This is just the beginning of questions, Minister.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I asked you if you had exhausted the subject in this question, but there are further questions. There are still a lot of people who want to ask a question. Please, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u58	Minister, I would like to ask you about the issue of mothers who have had more than four children, but who have linked it to their professional work. I know such examples. A great effort, a great effort, just to earn a pension. Often they are those who have earned a minimum pension; somehow they have laid down, made up 20 years of contributions and have this pension. What's their situation now? Well, they'll be aligned with those mothers. With all due respect to the effort of parenting, the birth of these children and, let's call it, the multiplication of our human capital against demographic shortages, but these mothers will be levelled. How does that apply to the principle of justice? Because it should be, in my opinion, yes... And I'm saying this unjustly, because in this case, about these pensions, I've written as many as three statements, or three interpellations at different times. I'll talk about it in detail in my speech. At one point Prime Minister Szydło declared publicly that these mothers would also be included in the system, that they would have some extra supplement to this benefit. The idea was for the citizen to feel that the system was in some sense just. You've worked 20 years, you've worked hard to raise four kids, but retirement takes that into account. And the second situation: you haven't worked 20 years, you've given birth to four and more children. and the system takes this into account. So what's the motivation... And there aren't so many cases that it ruins the budget, and the budget also provides money for it. Why wasn't it just taken into account? Because it wakes up my... This is one element of the criticism of the entire program by the environment. A good idea that has been proposed, among others. That's why she's being criticized. Taking into account, wisely taking into account the situation of women who could not necessarily be so active in the labour market, because they took the trouble of birthing and raising children, appreciating by the state that, say, they brought in a future citizen and a payer of ZUS contributions, etc., so that they would save the pension system so that it would continue on the basis of intergenerational solidarity... Why isn't it in this system? There was a statement from the Prime Minister... [[Mr. Senator, I'm...]] I'm very disappointed that this project, unfortunately, doesn't have that. [[Mr. Senator...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u59	Thank you very much. That's what happens when we're late. Senator Shark's already asked that question. But I understand the Minister's question is... [[But I asked you about the speech of Deputy Prime Minister Szydło, who said it would be taken into account.]] Good. Of course, you... [[And as I understand it, she was the promoter of this project.]] The Minister will answer that question in a moment. Senator Piotr Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u60	Thank you very much. Minister, many people are obliged to support their parents, especially their mothers, including children, adult children. What is the relationship between the law and this obligation? And how should the district president of the Social Security Office proceed, who will determine whether such a benefit is due? Will he examine and investigate the fulfilment of the maintenance obligation by obliged persons?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u61	And Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u62	I very briefly, Mrs. Marshal, in reference to the voice of Senator Jackowski. I'd ask you to explain your intentions, too. Is this bill designed to promote childhood, or is it designed to pursue other goals? Because it denies the continuity of the state. As these ladies had their first child, they knew that they had to work to earn their retirement, and they accepted those responsibilities. Other, for different reasons, I don't know which ones they didn't work anymore, knowing they'd be left with nothing. We reach out to these ladies, and those who have worked two jobs are hurt.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u63	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u64	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start with the last question again. About the issue of childhood... As I said, although I may have explained this in a slightly different context, today this system solution, which is precisely pronatistic, encouraging to decide to give birth to one or more children, is the mechanism that we have in the system. The State encourages you to decide to take care of your child, to raise your child, precisely in such a way that parents who make such a decision guarantee the funding from the state's budget of contributions to pension and pension insurance, i.e. that they take up this parental task... I sometimes hear the word "deactivation," here somewhere this element also appeared. Honestly, I don't like that term, I think... [[In this situation...]] ...is a term that can be considered somewhat offensive to those who have taken the trouble... After all, we know that for more children this effort is much greater than for one child. So I don't use that term. These are solutions that are conducive to childhood and are family-friendly in the pension system, based on certain mathematical assumptions. As much as I will contribute to the pension scheme in the form of a pension contribution, as much as in the case of retirement age or after retirement age, I will be able to obtain from it in the form of a pension benefit. The greater the number of children, the more this period, the contribution made by the public finance system, the budgetary system, the support for the person who takes care of the children is greater. And this is a system solution. This is also partly the answer to Senator Jackowski's question, because in the case of highly multi-child families, we multiply these periods of 4 years, as I said, in the extreme case where a person makes full use of his entitlement by the number of children, so in the case of families where the number of children is multiple, is, I don't know, six, seven or eight children, the period during which the state's budget finances benefits is longer. Notice that this funding is at a relatively high level, because contributions are calculated from 60% the average salary, i.e. from the same basis of assessment as the basis for the pension contributions of non-agricultural persons, which means that persons who have fully exercised or exercised those rights do not only ensure that they are entitled to a pension of the lowest pension, but that they are provided with this pension through the financing of contributions from the State budget. Also at a higher level. In the case of these benefits, we are talking above all about solving certain problems that have grown in the past, solving problems at the interface of two pension systems, and in such categories we must look at this benefit. That's how I'd answer that question. As regards maintenance obligations Senator Szymański answered this question in the course of the discussion. I'm going to say that we can look at this maintenance obligation in different ways too. Because we know that in the family code and caring maintenance obligation is broad, i.e. it is an obligation to supply family members by other family members, children by parents, but it is also, you can say, a maintenance obligation for children in the case of parents who do not have their livelihood, and we can also see this maintenance obligation in the relationship between spouses. So these relationships are very different, they're not just a maintenance obligation for children in relation to their parents. Let me put it this way: the issue of alimony is actually part of what I was talking about, referring to the right to this benefit, to the parent supplementary benefit in a situation where... We were talking about an example of a father who earned a high pension, and a mother who, because she didn't get a job or a short job, didn't get a pension. In the case of this relationship, we can also talk about maintenance obligations. But, as I mentioned, the fact that a high pension is being collected or that a high income is made by a husband, a father of four children, does not in any way affect the right of the mother to this benefit, because we consider personal income within the meaning of the Personal Income Tax Act. If you would like to reach out to the vocabulary that is in this law in the article. 2, you would see that the income there is quite precisely defined. Those elements which are mentioned in the vocabulary, which consist of the concept of income, shall be taken into account in the assessment of whether the applicant has a source of subsistence in the form of his own personal income or that source of subsistence. However, in any case it is personal income. The income of a husband or other family member does not affect the possibility of receiving such a benefit. [[Mrs. Marshal, but one question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u65	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u66	I asked how the president of the Social Security Office should proceed, which will determine this issue, because this is important. Is he supposed to require e.g. to simply apply to the court for maintenance or on the basis of... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No, there is no such provision. There isn't.]] What's he gonna do...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u67	As regards the formal side, this thread appeared in the discussion, i.e. the issue of evidence, the formal side, is indeed a list of the circumstances which must be demonstrated by the person applying for parental supplementary benefit, is quite long, but these requirements of evidence have been simplified as far as possible, because most of these circumstances are shown in a fairly extensive but only statement made by the applicant. Well, there are circumstances that need to be demonstrated through the relevant document, that's for example. birth certificate or birth certificate. So that here is the required evidence in the form of documents.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u68	Thank you very much. The senator hasn't received an answer yet? [[I'm just asking the question.]] Oh, see you next time. But we'll just have to wait a little longer. Senator Marek Borowski. [[I'm quitting. Thank you.]] Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u69	Minister, we can agree that I will ask you not to deactivate, but to resign from employment. Have you made any estimates of how much such legislation will lead to such a withdrawal? What group of people can this lead to resigning from employment, leaving the labour market? I don't use that phrase that annoys you, but it's one thing. That's the first question. And now the other one. The social security system includes these two elements: one supply, the other insurance. And we're talking about the supply system, this network under the network, under the insurance network, which captures those who have failed to secure the pension system, the pension system, the insurance system. And my question is this: why don't you seal this first network so that there are no people out there when you raise a large group of children, in the case of these families 4 plus? The Minister has talked a lot about the past, and I think about the future all the time. Both questions concern the future, the future consequences. Well, I really agree that when it comes to those who have fallen off this network in the past, you have to think about how to secure them. Okay, I'm not questioning this element, maybe beyond what Senator Wach was talking about, pointing out that this, too, maybe, will lead to the fact that we do not demand from children... And it shouldn't be. Well, our family code and caring code says it shouldn't be like this. So I ask you to answer the question, why have you chosen such a solution rather than another solution for the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u70	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u71	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question about the methodology for estimating the number of people who will eventually seek this benefit. Is this just what is in the resources of civil status offices, i.e. birth certificates? Whether we're suggesting how many children we've had, or maybe it's the sum of what we've learned. From the Social Security Department and the tax offices? Yeah, well, it's known that the amount of income we don't really know about can have an impact on that, too. The question is whether on 1 March of this year we can be surprised that this number will increase or decrease dramatically. And the second question about the calendar. What really determines the time from which this benefit will be paid? Will it be paid from the moment the correct application was made, which once there, at the later stage of verification, will be deemed appropriate by the President of the CSO? Will this benefit be paid back, or will this benefit be paid back from the moment the President issues the final decision, after this period of appeal? And I have a technical question. Well, I guess a lot of people are gonna be interested. Since when will you be able to apply? Since February, after the president signs this, or since March this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u72	Thank you. And you're Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u73	Thank you very much. Minister, I have this question: this one, let's call it. administrative procedurality... You say your spouse's income will not be taken into account. Next thing you know, they're gonna have doubts about how they've been taxing each other, how their husband was doing his business, and his wife was helping him, how he ran some, I don't know, craft company or something like that... There's gonna be this kind of discussion. In other words: whether such an approach to this law will not cause e.g. pathological phenomena? What do I mean? E.g. Social divorces. At some point, somebody's gonna think that the spouse's income is ruled out... so it's gonna be worth it, for example. formally terminate the marriage. Or adoption issues. How will it be evaluated if someone had three children and had a fourth child? How will this be treated by the Social Insurance Institution? If this was done when the baby was, I don't know, 12 or 14 years old... How will this be interpreted? Because what we're talking about here, unfortunately, gives us the opportunity to make certain maneuvers that are beneficial to someone who wants to use this system for their purposes in some way. So, in my opinion, we need immense precision here. 'Cause let's say there's an example. family with five children and there's a family with three children, and someone says, "Listen, I'll give you the baby, it's my fifth, you'll have it, and that's how everyone will be happy." How will such a thing be interpreted here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u74	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u75	Thank you very much. In that case, maybe in order of questioning... Senator Augustyn asked about the impact of these regulations on professional activity, on participation rates. I will actually respond in a very similar way, as I answered earlier, i.e. I will recall the system solutions that we have in the pension insurance system today. A similar question can be asked in relation to those solutions that we already have in the system and which involve funding from the state budget contributions to pension and pension insurance for those who restrict their professional activity in order to provide personal care for their children. Yesterday, during the committee meeting, we carefully analysed this situation and wondered how much it was, I would say, a consistent decision between the two spouses. In fact, each time we deal with an individual decision, conditioned by different circumstances, i.e. the professional situation, the income situation, the position in the labour market, the earning opportunities of one or both parents. But it is, in short, an autonomous decision of the parents. This is a decision, which is that parents are wondering if they simply can afford whether they want one of them to reduce their professional activity and take care of their children directly, and the other, in turn, took on the difficulty of financing or maintaining a family, a large family, because we are talking about... So that these questions are exactly the same as those that could be asked about today's regulation. I would like to say that you are well aware of this too. This type of estimate is very difficult to carry out, because they are simply based on many, I would say, uncertain data, data concerning, as I said, and the situation on the labour market, and the level of unemployment, and professional qualifications... In fact, we can only make such estimates on the basis of survey data. But once again, in the context of Senator Jackowski's question... Namely, the prime problem which solves this law is the problem of 85 thousand people, of whom 65 thousand were covered by the old pension system. Today, they are seventy - year - olds and older people who do not have their own source of income, their livelihood in the form of retirement, and who have born and raised or raised at least four children. This is a first-rate problem that we want to solve, which does not mean that this bill will not work for the future. As I said, the social policy instrument in the family-friendly and basic pension insurance scheme is the instrument I was talking about, i.e. financing contributions from the state budget. However, there may be a situation where this instrument is insufficient, even for four children. If children were born at shorter intervals than 4 years, even the one I said concerning extreme cases, the 16-year period for financing contributions will be reduced. Well, then this proposed solution will apply. It will also apply to persons covered by the new pension scheme. I mean, if a person doesn't decide to go back to the labour market after they're older, that's the problem, so to speak, to supplement the benefits she's earned herself... Well, by financing contributions from the state budget you can complement this benefit, the pension of such a person up to the amount of the minimum benefit if it has not worked out this minimum benefit. About the questions... Senator Jackowski asked me about issues related to adoption and about some kind of danger, risks associated with abuse of these benefits. From this discussion, which we had here before, also with the participation of Senator Szymański, it appears that there are very many different possible individual situations in life. I guarantee you that we have analysed these different situations of life very thoroughly, very deeply. There are various types of life situations related to an international element, e.g. such a situation that one child is born in Poland, after which the family goes abroad, the parents take up work there and there are more children born, the family stays there or after a while returns to Poland. There may be a reverse situation, i.e. Polish family travels abroad, children are born there and they are raised there, after a while the family returns to Poland. The question arises: whether these solutions, formally addressed to both Polish citizens and foreigners... To foreigners, but after fulfilling quite strict conditions, connected primarily with so-called. a residence, at least 10 years old, in which they had the centre of their life and personal interests in Poland. Will these persons also be able to acquire the right to witness? The adoption issues were also examined at the committee meeting. But why am I talking about this? Because the diversity of these unusual situations of life, which must always be taken into account when assessing the right to this proposed benefit, has led us to adopt just the construction that is contained in this law. That question was also raised by Senator Elephant, i.e. The question is what will decide. What will be the decision to acquire the right to this benefit? I answer here that the constitutional element that will really decide whether or not the benefit will be due will be the decision... So that this is not a benefit that is based on a claim structure. Right? This is a benefit that will be granted after the decision of the President of the Social Security Office has been finalized. The senator also asked about technical issues, i.e. Wait a minute. It is worth noting that this will be due from the first day of the month in which the decision to award the benefit was taken by the President of the CSO and the President of the CRUS. This does not, of course, mean that this is a discretionary benefit. We in this law have sought to clarify the conditions which warrant a positive decision by the President of the CSO and the President of the CRUS, the decision to grant such a benefit, as far as possible. The questions you're asking... The issue that some of the senators have been paying attention to, e.g. Senator Borowski, the question of whether this bill could not be finalised in one sentence... Well, that's why this bill, even though we're moving away from this claim here, is quite extensive and quite detailed. We wanted the conditions to be so specified that discretion would be minimized, reduced almost to zero. That's how I'd answer that question. Since when can applications be submitted? It is assumed that the Act will enter into force on 1 March 2019. You can say that you will be able to apply for benefits formally from that date. The procedure is in line with the Code of Administrative Procedure. If the matter of the conditions for obtaining the benefit is sufficiently clarified, if the application is well justified, supplemented, it shall contain full documentary evidence, the decision shall be taken within 30 days of the date on which the application is submitted. If such a decision is made in March, in accordance with the rule I mentioned, the payment of the benefit will take place from 1 March, i.e. the person applying for the benefit, will receive such a benefit for March. I think it is still worth mentioning the appeal route, because it is also part of the guarantee that the President of the Social Insurance Institution and the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund carry out these tasks correctly. This is a way of appeal in the form of the possibility of appealing against a decision to refuse the decision to the authority which issued the decision at first instance. In the event of a refusal to grant the benefit again, an appeal to the Voivodship Administrative Court will be granted with the possibility of an exceptional appeal, an appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court with an appropriate appeal. This is the procedure already applied in the case of the Social Insurance Institution in respect of pensions granted exceptionally by the President of the Social Security Office. This is a mode that allows you to develop a certain judicial line and a certain practice of conduct. With regard to the benefits that ZUS and KRUS already grant today, pensions granted by way of exception, such a legal line has existed for many years and has a fairly long-lasting, well-established character. This is the answer to the question of how these not fully defined elements, which are in the law, will be implemented. I am counting on the judicial practice of the President of the Social Insurance Institution, the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, as well as administrative courts. Thank you. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask because the Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u76	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u77	I asked specifically how it would be with the adoption... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I already translate...]] I meant this mechanism, whether it takes six months or 10 years. Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u78	Let me explain. The law itself gives the opportunity for biological parents, namely the mother of the child, the father of the child, even when dealing with the children of the other spouse, and also in the case of adopted children. It is also worth remembering, and this is the effect of the amendment which was tabled to this law in the Sejm, that is also the case for children who were under foster care within the foster family. Here is an exception in the form of a foster family and an exception in the form of a family home. In those cases where care was non-professional, this law gives the possibility to apply for the benefit also to foster parents. As far as length of care is concerned, this is a wider problem. This is not only a problem of care in foster care, but it is also a problem related to the length of the period of raising a child who will give the right to retirement. We really had a very wide and long discussion on this subject with the Social Insurance Institution as part of the work on this bill. This discussion led us to decide that we would not be rigid in determining this period, because the various situations of life, which are possible... The senator talks about giving the child to foster care, but there are also cases of the death of a child, one of four children, during care, and there is a question of the age of the child's death, how long a child's rearing period should precede his death, so that the mother who took care of such a child can apply for benefits. We are also talking about situations where children or disabled children are involved. In these cases, this care can also end differently, I would say. These are situations that have caused us not to decide on such a rigid determination of the period of custody of children, and these are situations that will be taken into account during each individual assessment of the situation of life. Here's what I'm gonna say. We are in constant contact with the Social Insurance Institution, because we know that the Social Insurance Institution must also prepare for this process of granting benefits, which will be expected from 1 March 2019. There is a question of developing certain guidelines, certain standards of conduct. The assumption is that it can be children who remain under the care of these parents during the 60s and 70% period. the time required to gain maturity, about this range, these boundaries of the ZUS will take into account. But I would like to say firmly that the caselaw of the provincial administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court will have a major impact on the final judicial line. As I said, we have a rich case law on pensions granted by way of exception. I believe that, I am counting on it, and I know that in the course of the appeal process that I have presented to you here, the various unusual situations of life will result in certain uniform standards of conduct being developed and a uniform judicial line will be created. Thank you. [[I haven't gotten any information on how to estimate it yet. How real is the number of benefits?]] Excuse me. As far as the method of estimation is concerned, it was based on the compilation of data held by different institutions. As I said, the number of 85 000 is the number of people who have already reached the retirement age of 60 in the case of women and 65 in the case of men. Some of these data are held by the Social Security Office because we are talking about people who, after reaching retirement age, have the right to a pension. That's what the ZUS has. They are entitled to a pension, but this pension is lower than the lowest pension amount. A large part of the data was taken from the Central Statistical Office. These are above all data on the number of children. The ZUS does not have such data for all insured persons. It has such data when we are talking about the right to a survivor's pension, when children are entitled to a survivor's pension after the death of one of the parents. Such data are available in this respect. But here, as I say, data was used by the Central Statistical Office. As far as issues relating to sources of income are concerned, these elements have also been analysed... As far as statistics are concerned, the tax administration helped us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u79	Thank you. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u80	Thank you very much, Marshal. My question concerns the residents of social services homes. Are they supposed to submit applications on their behalf, or are the help homes going to do it? How much will this affect their situation? Will this benefit be charged for a stay at a social security home? This is even a broader topic about people who are somehow incapacitated. Who makes such requests on their behalf, and who receives this benefit? That's the first question. The second question concerns the question of making money for retirement, benefits from an insurance undertaking or from KRUS. Such a typical pensioner can make some income and it does not affect the amount of the pension. Is the revenue that will eventually appear... Let's just say that a person doesn't have that kind of income when he applies. The President of the ZUS makes a decision, and after a while income appears. And normally this person informs the President of the Social Security Office. Will the president of the Social Security Office withdraw such a witness? A normal pensioner does not withdraw benefits, even though the income is at a certain level. And one more question. Is the Minister planning to say, in some way, secure the first period of the claim for benefits, a period which will be very difficult? In my first question, I suggested it. March 1st is Friday. If it goes well, a lot of people will then apply to the president of the Social Security Office. But many people will apply for it on 4 March at the earliest, and the president of the ZUS has 30 days for everything. Thus, it may turn out that the law will enter into force on 1 March, but for various reasons very many people will start receiving the benefit only from 1 April. Can the Social Insurance Institution and the KRUS ensure that all correct applications, of course without an appeal process, submitted in March will result in the payment of the benefit as early as March 2019? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u81	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask, have you even considered the possibility of pension payments, let's say, of women who have four children, but who have worked, which is actually, you can say, did even harder work than those women who only raised four children? Have you considered increasing pensions for such women? This is the first case. And why did you assume that these women who I think are doing double work should not have an improved material situation because they also raised four children and worked? [[Voice from the room: It was.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u83	That question has been asked several times, Mr. Senator. [[Yes?]] Yes. Senator Antoni Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two lines. It follows from this discussion that there is great concern about how such unpreparable rules will be implemented as a result by the presidents of ZUS and KRUS. Can we therefore count on the Ministry to systematically look at, literally from the very first days of this law? Are these various doubts that we formulate, but which were also formulated in the Seym, justified, and are there no need for any changes? That's point one. The second issue concerns a child who is also entitled, but not by adoption, but by being an unrelated foster family. I have a very serious concern that there is no specific time in which this child is to be in this family. This may be a very short time, for example a year, and we should act in such a way that children in foster families are as short as possible to return to their family environment, to biological parents, that is the requirement of social work, the requirement to work as a social assistant... But according to the regulations, even though the child was here for a year, this structure of 4 plus is already being created and it is therefore possible to obtain the benefit that we are discussing today. That's why I'm talking about it. It was also in my speech when I presented the discussion during the committee meeting. To think deeply about it, because this recipe that appeared in the Seym seems particularly dangerous to me. At the moment, we have over 50,000 children in non-related foster families. Any new benefit that this family receives And she recently received 500+, except that she has the means to support this child. It encourages stabilizing this system, which is a very high level of care. And we have a lot of kids in this foster care system. It's not right. And this new possibility creates another incentive for this system to continue in such a powerful formula. In total there are about 80,000 children in this system, and in foster families there are about 50,000. So is this problem being seen? We are obviously solving a social problem here, but aren't we creating a new problem or are we strengthening the old problem? Will both be the subject of the ministry's systematic work? 'Cause that's what you have to look at. I really have since the first days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u85	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u86	Thank you very much. I'm gonna let the last question start again. As regards the issues raised by Senator Szymański, it means the concern that these solutions will affect certain reception behaviours, but also foster children. There's one thing I'd like to draw your attention to. The first and fundamental issue is this: And that's a return to what I was talking about. That this is a law that first solves problems of the past, i.e. solves the problems of people who are already 60 years old today for women and 65 years for men and have not developed pension rights Because in the case of these people, this problem also arises. But it can really be said that, in their former role as a foster family, they fulfilled the conditions for obtaining the right to this benefit. However, the assumption is that this solution in no way to these risks, the dangers mentioned by the senator, will not affect, because they are already in the so-called. the post-production age. Of course, as I mentioned before, this bill doesn't just work backwards... Well, she doesn't work backwards at all. I would like to say that it does not only refer to the life situation that has happened in history, but also to the future, because it cannot be excluded that people who are working age today and are, say, professionally active will also want to benefit from this solution in the future. We think, when preparing the bill on parental supplementary witnessing, they modelled on the solutions that we also discussed extensively during the work of the Sejm committee, which are already in our legal system today, i.e. in the labour law system, but also in the social security system. As regards those elements of a pro-family nature, which are related to issues raised by Senator Szymański and which appear in the labour law, that is so-called. leave under maternity leave. Those who have adopted a child for upbringing have applied to the custody court for the adoption of the child, but also those who have adopted the child for upbringing as a foster child may benefit If the child meets the age criteria... Here I will draw attention to the fact that we have a 7-year condition in our work code, i.e. the child should generally not be older than 7 years old. Exceptionally, the Code allows the right of maternity leave to be exercised in the case of a child who has been deferred from the school obligation and has been raised to 10 years of age. This enables you to take leave on maternity leave. And we have modelled on these solutions, at least as far as the subject matter of this entitlement is concerned, which parents applying for parental supplementary benefits will be able to benefit from. I mean, here's the so-called. The occupational replacement will be excluded, i.e. only if other social rights are granted to a foster family or to a foster parent, we will also have the possibility of obtaining a parental supplementary benefit. Similar arrangements exist in social security law, in the Act on sickness insurance benefits, because there is a financial reflection of these workers' rights as well as entitlement to maternity benefits. I therefore think, Mr Senator, that the age conditions set out in the Labour Code for maternity leave, but also the conditions set out in the Welfare Act for maternity allowance for such a parent who serves as a foster family, will allow the President of the Social Security Office and the President of the KRUS to develop certain standards of conduct in relation to the length of care which will condition the acquisition of the right to that benefit. I also want to draw attention to the element of rotation of foster families. Just because a child leaves that foster family after a relatively short period of care does not mean that the child does not choose to take the place of that child into foster care. As I said, these are the conditions underpreparation in the bill, we do not have at all a certain length of time of custody or parenting of the child by those taking care of the child and applying for the benefit, but this is a special treatment, because this diversity of life situations that need to be taken into account in such cases is simply so great that it is simply not possible to establish such a rigid border. As far as the issue of monitoring is concerned, it is actually our statutory duty. So that I confirm that we not only... [[This is a special situation.]] ...we are working on a bill, we are preparing a project, not only presenting it, but also legally responsible for the functioning of the solutions that have been adopted by Parliament. Of course we will, especially at this sensitive moment. This date on March 1 will be such a critical moment It is important to look very closely at how this law works. As for the question of the problem that Senator Elephant has formulated here, I would answer yes. I have received many times, also personally, the assurance of the president of the Social Security Office... With regard to the size of this group, which we expect to submit proposals in the first period, this burden will actually largely rest on the President of the Social Insurance Institution. What I'm trying to say is that the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund may also feel burdened here. But both of these institutions are properly prepared for such situations. Here I will remind you of earlier actions, actions related to the entry into force of, for example, a law restoring the previous retirement age. Right? You could say we had a moment like this. It was 1 October 2017. When a large number of pension applications were sent to the CSO, but also to the CRUS. The U.S.S. has dealt very well with these applications so far. So here I don't see the risk of this action that's been ahead of us since March 1, 2019. And the number of these applications. We, in preparing an impact assessment, always try to accept the most, so to speak, a cautious scenario, in the sense of accepting the maximum possible number of people who can apply for a benefit. And we're gonna look at it from this perspective. How much of our estimates can we confirm during this first period of validity of the Act? I'm expecting this number to be lower than the number I was serving, which is 85 grand. Thank you. [[Thank you...]] [[Social services houses, people on their own, and the question of making a living...]] Good. I talked a little bit about it in such a broader context, because I talked about the various income that determines the possibility of granting the benefit, but also the possibility of later taking this benefit. I would like to point out that, in principle, the benefit will be granted for an indefinite period of time, which means that it will be granted for life. So it's not going to be in the decision to grant this benefit a date, some period for which it will be entitled. Here we have an exception in the case of foreigners whose legal stay in the Republic of Poland is temporarily limited. In these situations, the President of the CSO or the President of the CRUS will be able to grant such a benefit for a fixed period of time. But of course that does not mean that at the time of taking this benefit, the income situation of such a person In particular, whether such a person obtains a source of self-sustaining income at the level of the lowest pension benefit, i.e. at the level of PLN 1100 or not It will not affect the possibility of receiving a benefit. Where the person entitled receives such income, the provisions require him to inform the President of the Social Insurance Institution without delay. And then, when that condition falls off, the benefit will be withheld. Except it's not gonna mean a lifetime suspension either. It will be possible to suspend, re-start the process of payment of the benefit when the situation with regard to sources of subsistence, with regard to the source of income simply changes. As regards the possibility of working for a living and the impact on the right to this benefit... Well, actually, I already answered that question. If a person receives income at the level of a minimum benefit from a job, it will automatically mean that there is no source of income, no means of subsistence. And then the benefit will be suspended. As far as the issue of staying at a social security home is concerned, we do not change in any way those principles which are in the Social Welfare Act. This mechanism, which operates, means that the person in the social assistance home, or the family members of that person, is obliged to pay the cost of his/her stay in the social assistance home in the first place as part of the maintenance obligation. And only when this principle does not work do this burden take on the public finance system and the local government unit. So this mechanism is maintained. [[So this is going to be downloaded, too?]] Yes, sir. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u87	Mr. Marek Borowski, yes, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u88	Thank you. But I've decided to ask... [[And Mr Mieczysław Augustyn too, right? Good.]] The Minister explained in which cases the father of children will be able to benefit from the benefits discussed here. Maybe I didn't quite remember these cases, so I'd like to ask you a very precise question. Of course, in general, if someone doesn't work, it's the mother. And we're talking about a woman here all the time. But we cannot rule out a situation where the division of responsibilities in the family will be different: the mother will work and the father will take care of the children and will not work out the benefits. Thus, specifically in this case, I ask, because it was criticised with regard to the Act at issue, which provision allows such a father to be awarded? Or isn't there a rule?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u89	I've already quoted it today, Mr. Senator. I remember. Art. 3 (1) (a) Point 1 2 laws. [[Would you mind reading it?]] Of course. The certificate may be granted... Point 1 refers to the mother, and point 2 refers to the father who raised at least four children, in the event of the death of the mother of children, or the abandonment of children by the mother, or in the event of a prolonged cessation of motherhood. I encourage you to read the definition of raising a child This is the definition contained in Article. Point 2 of the 9th of the Law, because it, it can be said, deviates slightly from such a common understanding. We are talking about an upbringing process, which involves taking personal care of children by continuing, direct and continuous performance of the duties of parents under their children's rights and in order to take good care of them and their property. So it can be said that it is an obligation to exercise direct, continuous and permanent care, which means that we are talking not about taking part in the process of shaping a child, but about the situation in which a person limits his or her professional activity in order to take full care of such personal care of the child. Perhaps the voices that appear in the media, the voices criticizing this solution, criticizing this bill, claiming that the child's father would not be able to use this benefit, are precisely the result of the fact that we define it in a more similar way to taking the child up in the family code and caring, rather than in the way it is. I mean, for example. the concept of parenting a child adopted in the Labour Code. Yeah, well, that's a concept there, too. This is precisely because this context is read differently. The concept of raising a child has been defined in a precise way in this law, so that in this context it is necessary to read it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u90	Okay, I just suspected there was a different context here, but you'll admit the minister that it's quite obscure. It gives rise to serious question marks. You don't know how to understand it. Couldn't it have been written down in the bill so that it was clear? I'll tell you more: from this definition you gave, it appears that if both parents work, none of them raise a child.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u91	No, it doesn't. [[Well, it does, because...]] To be honest, I am a professional worker, and I am also attached to a certain terminology used by the Labour Code. The concept of raising a child in art. 180 of the Labour Code is also included in a special way. Take §4 of this provision. This is a recipe that talks about when a child's father can use part of his maternity leave. The code addresses this standard to employees Fathers raising a child. As I was saying, labour law and social security law define the concept of parenting in a different way than the provisions of the family and care code, which I would say applies to the educational process, i.e. the formation of the attitude of the child by both parents. These rules do not limit parents' ability to perform parental functions in any way, but, speaking of personal, direct and permanent functions. First of all, personal parenting, we mean a person who resigns or suspends, restricts his or her professional activity in order to take on these particular responsibilities of taking care of his or her child. It's raising a child, but it's kind of closer to that term of babysitting. And in these categories, we have to look at this term.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u92	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u93	Minister, one of the participants of the meeting with seniors in Węczeż asked such a question. What about those who gave birth, not four, e.g. five children, including one disabled child, and receive a disabled child's benefit? Will they have both benefits after retirement 4 plus or just one?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u94	I've already answered similar questions, i.e. I was talking about the fact that we need different sources of living, different sources of income to be treated in the same categories. The Act makes it possible for a person to benefit from a supplementary parental benefit on the basis of a personal source of income of at least a minimum pension by a person applying for such benefit. These personal sources of income can be very different. It could be a family pension, it could be an incapacity pension, it could be a pension, it could be another benefit. We have to use the same pattern here every time. The right to another benefit does not preclude the benefit of a parent supplement in a situation where the benefit received is less than the amount of the lowest benefit. Let me give you an example: a partial disability pension. The lowest pension for partial incapacity for work is 75% the lowest pension. If a person has any benefit at this level, including a partial incapacity pension, he/she will be able to benefit from this benefit. I'm talking about parenting as a supplemental witness. A similar situation applies to a survivor's pension in a situation where the pension is broken down into a mother and children. We know that a family pension for a mother or a father... We must remember that any parent can benefit from this benefit. We know that the family pension is 85%, 90% or 95% benefits which would benefit the deceased, but this is a pension that is shared between different categories of entitled persons. There may be a situation in which a part of the survivor's pension falls to the mother of the child, but this part will be lower than the lowest pension amount. At that time, as is the case for a pension lower than the lowest pension, the same will apply to a survivor's pension if the pension is lower than the lowest pension. In the case of different categories of benefits, we accept the same scheme. Having a right does not always rule out the possibility of applying for this benefit. But if someone has the right to another benefit of the broadly understood social security system and this benefit is entitled to a level of PLN 1 000 100, i.e. at the level of the lowest pension, or at a level higher, then in this case the benefit in question will not be eligible. [[If this is a care provision, then it's...]] The amount is decided. Amount. [[This benefit amounts to about 1,000...]] Seventy. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u95	That's it? Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you for your answer. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Duda. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u96	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! On the occasion of the Parental Witnessing Act, I recall how 20 years ago we fought in the Sejm as part of the Solidarity Action for a similar solution. We were able to establish a Sejm Family Commission at the time, because it was not the case before, we prepared a report on the situation of Polish families, but all this, as I remember, met with opposition from Members of the Union of Freedom and the Democratic Alliance, so that of course we did not approve such pension benefits at the time. But it led us to believe that everything had to be done to strengthen the family, because already at that time there was a real struggle against the family, which was expressed in the adoption of anti-family, anti-marriage, and even anti-human laws. The consequence of this is the current breakdown of the family, the demographic collapse in Europe, especially the western, rich one. Poland must have a good family programme, a family policy programme, and this should be based on many pillars, among others. on longer paid maternity leave, tax relief for children and financial support for multi-child families. And this third task, the financial support of multi-child families, is indirectly linked to the current pension law for mothers and four children. I will remind you that in Poland we already have many laws and concrete pro-family solutions, such as the famous first benets, longer maternity leave, there is the Alimmentary Fund, there are benefits for people with disabilities, there is nutrition for children in schools, material aid for poor pregnant women, financial support for families in the acquisition of their own apartment, there are in the Charter of the Large Family communication reliefs, relief in the use of cultural and sporting institutions, and above all there is the program 500+, All this is a package encouraging Poles to start families. It's a package of laws in which the state, the government, cares for the family. But in view of the fact that we are, after all, one of the fastest ageing societies in Europe, these pro-family actions of the government, although valuable, important, are still too small at the same time. Therefore, the solution contained in the Parent's Supplementary Service Act (Mum 4 plus) is, as has been said here, to appreciate and properly honor the work of mothers and, in special cases, fathers who raise children in families of many children. Under these regulations, persons who have not earned a pension or have earned a pension below the minimum and who have raised at least four children will be entitled to this benefit. I would also like to remind you that the benefit under the schemes "Mama 4 plus'will be able to apply for mothers who have reached the retirement age of 60, and the benefit will also be granted to fathers of four children after 65 years of age in the event of their mother's death or abandonment of their children. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy estimates that there are currently 65 000 mothers in the country who have given birth and raised at least four children and do not have the right to benefits from the Social Security Office or KRUS, and another less than 21 000 of such mothers already retiring, but less than the minimum. And here's an important point: out of those 65,000 mothers with four or more children who today do not have pension rights, the majority are people born before 1 January 1949, i.e. those covered by the so-called. an old wallet, an old pension system, and it is these mothers who are in a particularly difficult material situation. This law indirectly counters poverty, pursues pro-family social policy in a measure of solidarity, although not entirely fair. I am convinced that mothers without pensions are very happy about this solution and are waiting for it. This Act is also intended to promote childhood in the family. There's no question about that. The pension will, as the Minister said, increase with the number of children. It translates into contributions. Mothers raising e.g. Six children will receive a higher pension amount. In this context, it is largely a system solution, but not entirely a system solution, because it does not provide the tools for mothers who decide to have four or more children, at the same time deciding to stop working. In general, this law, as well as the overall family policy of the United Right Government, is very positive, but I would also like to see here a proposal to morally strengthen the natural family. As I said, there is a trend in the countries of a rich Europe to fight against the family. This is a fight by promoting partnerships between people of the same sex, through abortion and euthanasia. And maybe in the context of this unfortunate fight against the classic family model, we should look to the future and guarantee even more in the country's family policy, in the constitution full protection of life from conception to natural death, as well as the protection of a traditional family composed of father, mother and children. We need a comprehensive policy covering the family, because only in this way can we increase the natural growth in Poland and thus improve the existence of Polish families. A wise country, despite economic difficulties, conducts family and family policies. Its planning must not wait to improve the economic situation, because unwelcome family changes can occur during such a period of expectation, which cannot be stopped or reversed. As I said, family policy must not be distracted by the system of values of Poles. John Paul II repeatedly said that the future of the world goes through the family. The comforting thing is that more and more people are beginning to realize how much St. John Paul II was right. Poland is a family. What threatens Polish families threatens the Polish people, and what is good for Polish families builds our homeland. Again, I will appeal to John Paul's words II. In the Exhortation of Familiaris Consortio, he wrote: "Love a family means to be able to value its values and opportunities and always to support them. To love a family means to know the dangers and evils that threaten it in order to overcome them. To love a family means to contribute to creating an environment conducive to its development. I thank the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy for this bill. We're waiting for more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no denying that, first of all, this law would seem, rather unpretentious, to have caused a lot of controversy, as evidenced by both this debate and the earlier social debate, in which various accents appeared. Of course, there's an advantage here. I'm thinking blogs. Those correspondents who accuse the act of injustice. This is a dispute against the Minister who says that the bill exhausts the signs of social justice. In the second place, this law is a continuation of a model of government good change, which promotes a family model very strongly supported by the budget, by the state, i.e. And they're the ones who notice, I'm talking about the correspondents who write it. By us, taxpayers. It consists of such a puzzle: 500+, And it starts to raise questions for taxpayers or even concerns that the budget, the state, may turn in the wrong direction. Of course... Senator Ryszka talked a little bit about it, but also with Senator Radziwiłł and Senator Augustine I notice these accents, which values the family should be subjected to during the period when the state is already stable. Is it a family that shapes its own living conditions, or is it a family that can only exist if there is State aid? How should axiology not only be promoted during the upbringing period? This is a justification, but the purely economic solution does not refer to this justification. 'Cause that's where you're going. says that a child who is a member of a family participates in her life, observes the behaviour of adults in different situations of life. But is this observation of this child supposed to be the parent's statement: if there is poverty, will we go to the unemployment fund or to social assistance or for a supplemental benefit? Well, at least the bill responds: if mom doesn't have a job... Don't worry, mom. Says the baby. The Minister of Government will grant you money. [[God!]] The Minister's calling here... This is already settled, I repeat, by universal laws adopted in most countries that have adopted the Roman philosophy of law: but children, especially when they are four, adults already are obliged to support their parents, not only in a material but also moral form, in the form of this care. Of course not upbringing Which today is beginning to be a big problem for which the Platform has a partial response in the form of a welfare check. Today, grown - up children are increasingly abandoned by their parents and educators, not only by this law. These are doubts, I repeat, although I don't take over all of them. But on the other hand, I think Senator Szymanski was talking about it. What is the mathematical model of the family today, so practical? Model 2+1. Well, 2+2 is a challenge, 2+3 is already a heroic, and 2+4... I don't want to say it's a coincidence. But what does that mean? That this bill doesn't talk about these heroic behaviors of parents, it just talks about some extremes, even some random ones, you can say. And for this reason it should be said that not even the 2+3 family anymore, but the 2+2 family should be supported. I think it's also related to the fact that we're due to various systemic changes because I don't want to blame it on just one government. We've changed the insurance system. As you know, the old insurance system, I would say not communist, because he was pre-war, he insured the family: the contribution, the number of children and the possibility of caring for them and raising them. It's broken down, and today we're throwing in all kinds of individual laws, preferably plus, to show more political rations than system rations. And to put an end to... this non-systemic solution, in my opinion. I agree with that. There is a departure from the family code, which, after all, is applied to children. In the case of the Asylum Fund, there is a temporary replacement of the father to the children, and here we accept permanent maintenance without the obligation to recover maintenance. Nevertheless, I will surprise you. I will support this law, I will vote in favour, but the justification for this is completely different. As I have already pointed out, the changes in the system, so to speak, have identified this integrity of the family of the worker or of the person today who is running an economic activity, this relationship between family members, with his wife, and especially with children. Today, the labour market, financial and pension systems do not see that for four children the insurance system should guarantee minimum standards for them. But the more important reason why I support this law is because of the behaviour of all of us in the period of systemic transformations. Well, terrible things happened during the transformations of the system. Firstly, there was unemployment, especially for women, because less often for men. They were sent back to unemployment because they thought that there would be benefits, there would be benefits, and above all, that the needs of the child are more important than the minimum wage. Secondly, there were very low wages which did not allow to compensate for labour costs and thus did not result in a bonus, i.e. a pension in the pension scheme. And three, trash cans. Let's not hide that trash cans allowed an employee to pay 5 PLN per hour, less than 1 thousand PLN, 900 PLN or 800 PLN per month. If retirement is a consequence of wages Let's assume that at the same time the condition is 60%. It must have been her, and it is 400 zlotys. And finally, fourthly, the combination of the pension system. They make even this one here today the minimum pension proposed doesn't solve anything. One might ask the Minister why for this family with these four children Once unemployed, once in a trash can, maybe with disabled children Only a minimum pension, i.e. 870 PLN. It's definitely not enough to survive, especially since this retired woman is gonna be lonely someday. 'Cause one day a retired woman's gonna be lonely, a retired woman's gonna be lonely. Plus, the disease... This pension system, with these different cuts, in no way solves the problem. And another important thing. Well, every system should move forward, should be developmental. What was a trait of the old, I didn't define them closer. - Time? - Mm-hmm. Often it was that the woman was with her husband, i.e. inequality and wealth, and profitable. It definitely degraded the position of a woman in a marriage and gave birth to the danger that if this husband left, it would be a significantly reduced means of livelihood for this woman's existence. 60% Just this low retirement, even less, because... And that's why I'm gonna support this bill. To strengthen the position of a woman in a marriage. Not to strengthen competitiveness, but to strengthen this marriage, this family, by the fact that a woman will also have her allowance. Because that's what you can call these minimum pensions today. It's pocket money. For these reasons, I will support the bill. But I have one amendment. Mr. Minister, the senator has already started talking about this. In this account, these deep analyses forgot about families that were already in the process of life... [[Mr. Senator...]] This is the last thread. ...they have educational difficulties and material poverty. These are families who raise children with disabilities. They sacrifice, they get fired, they give up their income to look after these children. What's the difference, Mr. and Mrs. Senators, between a family with four children, where parents, suppose, may or may not work, and a family with three children, including all disabled children, or two children are healthy and one is disabled? There's no difference. Perhaps even worse is the situation of this family, because already during its operation it feels a shortage of material resources, and then, without getting a pension... [[And this is a good time...]] This is an amendment... ...without getting a pension, she's deprived of any benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u99	Thank you very much for the amendment and thank you very much for your speech. [[That's why it's an amendment.]] Senator Marshal Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This bill is an example of how you can spoil a good idea. Then, when the case began to be discussed, when Prime Minister Szydło said that it was a matter of some material honoring, partly securing the existence of mothers who raised at least four children, consecrated themselves and therefore did not earn retirement, everything seemed quite clear. They didn't earn their pension, so they're gonna get a certain amount. End of story. Of course, there must be some technical issues about how many years they raised... The question is how many years a child was raised who died because unfortunately one of the children could have died. I understand that such matters, including those of adopted children, etc., such issues in such a law would have to be settled. But the income element has been introduced and this has made the bill such a legislative monster. There is now a discussion about the amount of personal income that makes this benefit no longer marry. Senator Szymański to my question, why and why this is a profit criterion, answered: well, after all, such a mother Let us follow the example when it comes to women. It can be e.g. own a house and rent apartments, and have income from it, so why does she need this 1 thousand zlotys, etc., etc. Okay, but I'd like to ask. There's another mother who raised four kids and worked, and she retired. Does anyone ask if she still has a house and rents it? No. She just gets that pension. And here it should be exactly the same, I stress: exactly the same, without seeing whether the mother has income or no income. The Minister gave an example that the border should be the lowest... I don't know, but I think there's a discrepancy here because Senator Rulewski was talking about PLN 870... [[The voice from the room: Netto, because these are...]] Oh, net, good. All right. So this 1 thousand PLN, approx. 1 thousand 100 PLN... [[Voice from the room: It's gross.]] Yeah, gross. I want it to be that limit. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the deal. We're shorthanded today. Let's say that a woman who is 60 years old and qualifies for such a benefit is ready to take a job, just now she is ready to take a job, increase the number of people who work and thus increase our national income, reduce the shortage of hands to work. And let's just say for this kind of work, for example. part-time, he can get It's hard to say. A thousand hundred zlotys. On the other hand, it has this benefit, which amounts to approx. PLN 1 thousand 100. Well, if she takes into account all the costs of taking up a job, and so on, she's gonna think that it's totally not paying off, and she's just not gonna do it. This leads to absurdity. The person who takes up such a job must report it, then the benefit thereof shall be suspended, etc. Unfortunately, Minister, it seems that maybe at first this project was, I would say, very specific, but then they got involved... I don't know if the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, or maybe just bureaucratic officials who started to limit it. Well, in that case, no, not in that case, not... And it really looks like this is a bill that says to give, but you do everything you can not give. And the 85 grand you were talking about here... I'm betting dollars against nuts that if it comes to anything, it won't be 85 grand. Maybe there'll be half. And that's what's gonna happen. That's first of all... And instead of saying that, a simple, relatively simple bill, you raised, raised at least four children, didn't earn a benefit, you get a certain amount... It is the second question whether this amount should also be received by mothers who have worked out the full amount of the benefit, because this was also the case here. It'd be a kind of reward, I'd call it. Such equal treatment of them all. I don't know, I'm not going into it anymore, I'm sticking to the idea of this bill, that it's about people who haven't worked out the benefits. And that would be the simplest solution, and that's how it should be. Yeah, but it looks different, and now the president of the ZUS... There's a recipe that says that the president. Well, if you're the president of the ZUS, you're gonna assess the property situation. Yeah, I can see the grades now. The Minister referred to the provincial administrative courts which will speak on these decisions, there will be a judicial line, etc. Nothing will arise, Minister, because any voivodship administrative court may say otherwise. And we already have examples of that. Anyway, by the way, I'm gonna say that the Ministry is ignoring certain sentences. I will refer here to the case of guardians of adults with disabilities. In this case, there was a judgment of the Court, and we have judgments... [[Recently in Poznań.]] Yes. And those judgments just aren't being enforced. So please do not speak of the case-law and do not create a law which by nature forces you to go to court, so that the court determines what this law is all about. This is bad practice. If a simple rule were to be adopted that the amount should be paid, no such thing as, so to speak, tricks and thoughts would not exist. And that's case one. Case number two. I asked the Minister about the father case. The Minister quoted me, referring to other articles, to another code, etc., which is to be understood by the long-term cessation of education, because it seems that this is the way it is formulated there. Well, ladies and gentlemen, for each of us here for a long time to stop parenting, I think it's going to be a vacation. It's true, isn't it? And leaving these children to their father. Well, it's a long-term cessation of parenting. So instead of writing the normal language in this bill, which means... if you know what it means to have a mother raise four children and not earn a pension, you have to write it down, which means that the father raises four children and doesn't work out his pension. And with that record, I'm really sorry, but I don't know what they're gonna be... The Minister, of course, assures you, but that's not enough. I do not know what decisions will be made on this issue, and unfortunately all of this could end in the fact that no equality will be here. Of course, I realize that right now this bill will not change the way I put it here. I regret it, and I suspect it will have to be changed in the future if we want it to work somehow. Today, of course, it is difficult not to support it, because some number of women who have already exceeded this retirement age and remain without means of life benefit, I do not know, from social assistance, as I understand it, should receive these funds. But once again, the announcements that have been made public have been made to a modest degree, that is, from a large cloud, a small rain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u101	Thank you very much. Senator Tomasz Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! The other guests! There is no doubt that the act promoting childhood is worthy of support, and there is no doubt about that in our House. But then it gets worse and worse, because there are demons stalking the ruling party, namely the talent to divide people into more or less privileged ones, not to say better or worse. Besides, we completely ignore what we call the continuity of the state. When these mothers, who are now in their 60's and had four children, gave birth to the first, second, third, fourth children, they knew that if they didn't work, they wouldn't have a pension, so they would rent babysitters, they would do things to work and raise children at the same time. And now, at the end, they're being hurt because those ladies who didn't work at all get a bonus corresponding to the lowest pension, and they've heard you've got your pension you've earned, you've created GDP, you've tried to work for the good of the country, and they don't have any of it, not even symbolic compensation. It's very painful for these people, we meet with letters, phone calls, requests to do something about it. The terms of the game were the same for all, and some ladies decided to combine the upbringing of four children with work, while others decided to devote themselves only to upbringing. And one group gets a bonus and the other stays with nothing. It's kind of like a long-term situation. Some hospitals were in debt, bought equipment, paid good salaries, and others managed reasonably. Then came the debt, and those who were economical came out of it, euphemistically speaking, not so good. I thought this bill was supposed to promote childhood, that's glorious. Only, as I said in the beginning, that would mean: let's not stick to any other criteria, we mean that there are four children or more. I will remind you that before the war, according to the 1926 decree, President Mościcki became the godfather of the seventh son in the family to rebuild the fabric of the nation after the wars and uprisings. These children had a lot of privileges, including free study abroad, as President Mościcki's godson, provided that they were given the first or second name Ignacy. Such children were about 900, of which 300 are probably still alive, especially in Wielkopolska there is quite a strong association of them. If we accept that we add to this any other material or intangible criteria, then... we begin to fall into traps, the intricacies of this bill, ladies and gentlemen. I personally know my own family in Szczecin, where my mother has been cleaning up apartments in Berlin for years, and the parent cares about raising children. But technically, they're married. That mother's been gone all week. In her 60's, she will likely receive this witness, although her contribution to raising children is much less than her father's contribution. Mr. Senator mentioned that if someone had an expensive house they rented, they wouldn't be entitled to that support. And I'm asking, why? Aren't we supposed to promote resourcefulness? Aren't we supposed to promote people who are doing well in their lives? If they are able to live and have four children, that is to say, they are fulfilling the conditions of this law. We mean that she should be simplified and include all those involved in raising four or more children. Because that was the point of the bill. At least that's how I understood him. That is why we are going to make amendments that come down roughly to the fact that these bonuses in the form of the lowest pension cover both men and women, and that this includes women who have fulfilled the basic requirement of this law, i.e. they have given birth and raised four children, whether they have worked or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator, Minister Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should actually start with the fact that I welcome this bill to the Senate, and of course I will vote for it. It's a really big day for big families, big families, about which many debaters have quite limited knowledge. This law certainly does not implement all the demands for securing or seeing what parents are doing and, above all, we have in large families. But this is undoubtedly one of such important steps. Even if it is not great, it is of a milestone. Although this benefit is not called retirement, which I regret a little bit, it is a matter of words. However, for the first time, it is simply noticed that, contrary to what... Even here in this room, several debaters have said that these moms choose to raise children or work. It's just not true. All the moms who raise their kids at home work, and it's very hard. If they raise more than three children, four or even more children, they work very hard. Often this work is much more demanding, heavier, more incriminating than being at work for people who are simply not at home. That's... It's not just a matter of feeling, but it's also a question of calculation. More and more experts tend to believe that this work is being done at home Most ladies do it, we have work to do not only to raise children, but also to prepare meals, clean, wash, etc. etc., that's almost 30% of our GDP. I'm not just talking about big families here. But it's just a great value, a value that doesn't just matter to these families, but to society as a whole. This is a matter of our common wealth. There's no doubt about it. And this law at least makes a small contribution to understanding and accepting it. This is extremely important. The words "righteousness" and "righteousness" were quite common during this discussion. We were just talking about the choices of those families who once chose that one of the parents would work and the other one would stay home. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this law is the first step towards remedying the great injustice that has taken place for years or generations in relation to people facing a situation in which... Families in which parents, we have first of all, stayed at home, actually maintained a whole range of different kinds of benefits, including public-funded benefits, such as nursery, kindergarten, for those parents who were just earning money at that time. Moreover, those parents who went to work today have pensions, and those who kept them at that time do not have pensions today. This is an injustice that this bill at least partially corrects. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look today at the value of the public grant to a nursery or kindergarten for one child, we will see that it does not offset the amount of PLN 935 that this mother will receive monthly from her pension. And we're talking about some injustice here? No, this is a small step in this direction to compensate for these numerous arrears and the obligations of the state towards those who are not working. They worked hard, contributed to our common wealth, to the construction of social welfare, and so far they have not received any compensation in return for it, moreover, they have often met with contempt, with such an opinion that it is not very clear what they do, that they are sitting at home, as they are said to be. Here, in this room, there were words like that. I regret this, and I hope that this bill will contribute to the fact that we, as a society, will all appreciate what we have at home, especially those who are dedicated to taking care of more children. Ladies and gentlemen, from such an organizational point of view, and I know this even from the experience of my large family, and also because for many years I have been an activist of the Big Family Association... I know what the alternative to mama's care for such a big family is when mom has to go to work for one reason or another. Ladies and gentlemen, in such situations, the state pays a huge amount of money, because these children scattered around daycare, kindergartens, care outside the school, more sick people, etc., etc. they generate much more social costs. There's been a lot of talk here about discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, this law simply covers injustice. I'm gonna use that word again. In relation to one of the most injured groups. There's no way anyone's being discriminated against. It's just that these ladies, first of all, those moms that have been underestimated, who have been unfairly treated, are going to get at least some piece of justice right now, and that's good. This has nothing to do with their distinction, and certainly with discrimination against the others. It is said that this is the case in the explanatory memorandum. It's supposed to honor the hardships. I have four or more children, and also in certain situations fathers of such large families. This is a certain narrative that accompanies this bill, and it is good that it is. But here I would also agree to a delicate criticism of this idea, which, however, limits the benefit of this law only to some people. It seems that by accepting this solution, because it is a step in the right direction, it is worth looking at it also from the cost side. It seems that the complicated way of granting this benefit will also generate costs. We all talk so enthusiastically, or at least a large part of us, about the 500+ programme, especially when it comes to the second and next children. He is so simple: you have to be everyone, you don't have to check it, there are therefore no temptations of abuse. It could be said that it would be good for this witness to function in the future as well. Let me stress that one more time. I agree to support this law in the version in which it came to us, but I hope that as part of the monitoring of what is going to happen with this law, what will be the case law, first of all the caselaw of the Social Security Office in relation to these people... Well, at the moment, it is worth signaling the need to consider some changes in the future with regard to the rules on moms and large families. Well, first of all, I want to highlight very strongly what I heard from the Minister. I am glad that you said that the material situation of my husbands, who are candidates for this benefit, will not matter when it comes to granting this benefit. This is extremely important. In my opinion, this is not directly from the bill, but if the minister, the representative of the government, assures us that this is the practice, then I understand that this is the spirit of the law and that is how it will be implemented. As far as the possibility of considering other solutions in the future is concerned, in my opinion simpler, I would first refer to the absolute universality of this provision. I heard here an appeal for this to be done in such a simple way. Some of the debaters who are now using this argument, when we talked about 500+, said: why are we giving this benefit to these wealthy ones? So there's some inconsistency in what I hear in this room, but I personally believe that such a bonus in the form of this mummy pension should belong to every lady who has had and raised four or more children. Besides, it seems worth considering in the future such a solution so that this bonus increases with the number of children over four. Well, no doubt raising four children is a huge effort, but it must also be said that raising seven, eight or ten children and such families in Poland are It is an incomparably greater effort, and it would be worthwhile to appreciate it in the future. It also seems to me that somewhere on the way to developing this idea, it would be worth considering raising children with disabilities, for whom this effort is even greater. I think it's something worth considering in the future. And finally, the last issue that I think should be accompanied by... maybe not this law anymore, but at all the reflections on various types of family efforts, the taking of various types of benefits and at the same time employment. This is an area which, in my opinion, is still open in Poland when it comes to the various kinds of regulations that exist in some countries. Scandinavia is a good example of this. There are various types of flexible forms of employment Timely flexible, not requiring constant presence at work Which, in my opinion, are a good offer, a good alternative for ladies who choose to have more children, and at the same time even more directly, personally participate in their upbringing. Having said all this, I am appealing to the Minister for these proposals we have put forward here... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. They're not gone. At the same time, I would like to assure you once again very strongly that the law in the version in which it came to us deserves warm support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u105	Thank you very much. Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! This bill is going in the right direction. One can say that something that has been announced has a chance to be realized today as well. ♪ For a while I was ♪ But I'm probably not the only one. I'm worried about the fate of this announcement, and here's a surprise. It turns out that since the announcement, the government has been working very effectively on this solution, taking into account a number of aspects. The characteristic of a socially sensitive government is that it can see certain areas that have so far escaped the interest of the government, the interest of government units, in this case social assistance units. And you could say that we're eliminating the Parent's Supplementary Service Act. Except for the aspects that I'm about to talk about. This is one of the most important aspects of the problem, i.e. We are eliminating another area of poverty and deprivation. Because by quoting in a quite cool way these numbers - 85 thousand, 60 thousand, 1 thousand 100 PLN, supplementing up to 1 thousand 100 PLN - we ignore the aspect that in all these cases... Each individual case is often a case of difficult life in which people, most often we have, older moms, have to deal with various kinds of shortcomings and difficulties. And I'm sure it wasn't just my senator's office that people like us used to ask, what are you living for? And we've heard many times: well, we live from our husband's pension because I don't have my pension. And it was a life full of shortcomings, full of shortcomings, full of what is said, binding the end to the end, life from the first to the first. It was also life in a sense deprived of a very important element, which is dignity. And this is the second aspect that I would like to draw the attention of the High House, and which aspect of this law raises and draws attention to it in a very significant way: the dignity of the parent, the dignity of the mother, the father, the multi-child family. Dignity that should be seen by the state. There is an unwritten relationship between the needs of the state, the directions of development and the implementation of this by particular social groups, professional groups and, above all, the family. The state does not exist without a nation, without the people who constitute this nation, and the family Although truism may be the primary source of this human, demographic resource for the state. The state in its policy should therefore see this commitment, this effort that the family has to bear by giving birth to the world and then raising citizens. I appreciate that many of the previous speeches were concerned about what might still need to be changed, improved, noticed. In many of these statements, there was also appreciation for what had so far escaped. Well, the situation of these tens of thousands of people who have been diagnosed so far After all, over the years, these people will be coming. I'm not gonna say it's gonna get better, because these moms, these dads, they don't get any coconuts. Then when they have no benefits, no income, they will receive the lowest benefit, and if they have not achieved it for various reasons, it will be completed for them. However, this will help to improve their existence to some extent. I have repeatedly observed in this term that, when we came here as representatives of the government holding power with a proposal for certain social solutions, it encountered various arguments. There were different reasons for such behaviour, not other behaviours during the vote. We came here with the Act on 500+, we came with the Act on free medicines for seniors, with solutions that allowed us to support the Polish family. That's right, there's always the impression that you could do something better that you could give more that you could give to everyone. However, the courageous rulers of their policies begin with the first step, but they do so effectively. And they do it immediately as soon as the need is diagnosed. That's the first step. In the history of the last few decades, this is a unique action. I don't think anyone had ever expected this, that there would be a government that would propose a solution to restore dignity and the situation of many Polish moms and fathers among all those who... They are treated equally with those who worked, who built the pension insurance system. Perhaps such fathers or moms did not build this system directly, but it is difficult to deny them that they had a huge influence on this system. I hope that, after some time, the opponents will see the benefits of this solution. I also hope that all these aspects that are being raised at the moment They concern a certain unequal treatment of individuals who could be taken into account in one way or another. They will also be perceived over time by the government because they deserve it. My previous speaker, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, mentioned several elements connected with, in any way, the appreciation of families who raised four, five, six or even more children. I think this is a challenge for all of us, but thank you very much for this act of social justice. I am also pleased by the government's attitude, which, seeing that the budgetary situation allows this, marks a huge amount of money for this solution. The money that will have to be spent in the years to come. That's what the Minister was talking about. The fact that in the next 10 years it will be about PLN 11 billion also indicates that we want this solution to continue year by year and perhaps its scope will also be extended. I hope, Minister, that this first group of people who decide to come out of hiding and, by making proposals, confess Perhaps now, at the age of 70, maybe 80 to be a mother or a father of four or more children, he will receive this benefit from March this year. That since the Law and Justice Government says that the Act has entered into force since 1 March 2019, we will make every effort to ensure that applications, if they are properly submitted, are considered in March and that all those who acknowledge that they have had and raised four or more children over the past few decades receive this benefit. I also hope that civil society will appreciate this effort by the government and the budget as a whole and will see this step in an extremely good direction. I wholeheartedly support this law and hope that the High House will adopt this solution today and that it will be implemented, as it is written here, from 1 March 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u108	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The topic we are currently discussing is: extremely important, a subject that was very difficult to break into social consciousness. I say this as the author of the book, which was published in 2007, entitled "Family Time," where I presented the lines of modern family policy. At that time, Poland was dominated by such a view that children are in fact a private matter of their parents and state nothing to do with it. Of course, this view is right, because the decision about how many children you want to have or how many children you want to have is an absolute exclusive prerogative of your parents. But it is not that the demographic situation is not without an impact on economic life, social life, political life or cultural life. And this is what I tried to draw attention to in this book of mine in 2007, showing that the family, apart from various social, cultural functions, for religious believers, or others, also performs a very important economic function. Because, in fact, from an economic point of view, Gary Becker, a professor at the University of Chicago, who received the Nobel Prize in 1992, developed the theory of human capital, is created in the family. So future citizen, future employer, future employer, future consumer of culture, future consumer of other economic goods, future inventor, future inventor... Generally, it's human. And according to Professor Becker's theory, human capital is 80% of the capital of every resource on earth. And from this point of view, I also asked, in fulfilling the senator's mandate, to take into account the efforts of mothers who have undertaken in a special way, above average, going beyond what is considered to be some sort of, well, dominant family model in terms of promoting multi-children, many families in terms of production. In terms of economic categories, this human capital... In my previous term of office, I have spoken on this subject many times, and I have repeatedly proposed this solution, which we are debating today. And in this term of office, hoping that the government of good change also this factor, let's call it, demographic, factor in the production of human capital or creation Maybe it's a better word. Human capital and a factor of solidarity, in order to strengthen the pension system and in general the social security system, which, High Izbo, is really a solidarity system... So what if we work on high or low posts or some kind of pension, if there are no current contributors, those who are currently working, and there is nothing to pay for these pensions? And this is a question that is being asked dramatically not only to the Polish government at the moment, but also to other European governments, wherever there is a demographic collapse or a demographic winter, this situation is assessed differently. And now I'm going back to the main thread. Well, on 19 October 2017, I made a statement to the President of the Council of Ministers on pensions for mothers of large families. At that time, in my reply of 23 November 2017, I was informed that the government had not planned special solutions in this regard. Then, in my statement, I stated that I was referring primarily to those women, those mothers who had or raised at least four children and did not have pension supplies. Later, there was a change in the public space that announced a solution to this problem, and so on March 8, 2018, i.e. almost a year ago, together with Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł and Senator Antoni Szymański, we also made a statement to the President of the Council of Ministers asking for information about the work on this project. We received an answer that the work is ongoing and that the government estimates that there are about 85 000 people Because not only women, but also men who might benefit from this form of benefit. I made another statement on 26 October 2018, concerned with signals or expressing concern that it would be so that, as part of this solution, these mothers or those women who have had difficulty earning their pension, although this minimum pension is usually because they have shorter working lives and less paid jobs, and this is extremely difficult, anyone who knows this issue knows exactly what I'm talking about. They will be included in this system in such a way that they will receive some kind of bonus, in any way it would be constructed, for a child above a certain number of children. In other words, if there's a mother who's had eight children and worked out for herself, and I know these cases. In my opinion, it should not be equal to a person who did not contribute any contributions or almost no contributions to the pension scheme because she did not have those 20-year contributions. And the effect is that there would be some kind of equalization here. And I have to say that in this sense, this project, which is going in a very good direction, in my opinion, has just this flaw, because it will be raised or is already raised in the debate as being visible to the naked eye of injustice. That is why I think that there should be such an attitude of the government in this regard that, after the entry into force of this law, i.e. after 1 March, the government, and especially the Ministry of the Family, will be very intensively monitoring the situation and taking appropriate reactions, including legislative responses, with a view to amending this law. I specifically, Minister, in the debate I asked about these evaluation criteria. They're also gonna stir up a social debate or something. In my opinion, it is necessary to make a decision and to create a rigid statutory framework which would exclude, so to speak, the assessment of life's situations. Imagine that. in the media there will be a relationship, I do not know, about the mother in some particular situation, which I would say, we are not even able to imagine at this moment for an example, and on this basis will be given a sentence about the whole solution, which I stress all the time. And it's right, it's right, it's right, it's right, it's right, it's right, it's right, Please note that 15 years ago, talking about something like this caused extremely negative reactions on the basis of having children and having a pension, and I worked hard and had the same situation? At the moment you can see demographic changes, you can see changes related to mass economic emigration from Poland, the end of the labour force from Poland. This is, of course, linked to migration policy. The government is making increasingly liberal legislation, i.e. legal solutions that enable Poland to gain labour even from countries outside the European Union, because we have labour market shortages. Here begins a whole series of interlinked mechanisms. But please note that right now this discussion is about criticizing those women who have over-normative or over-average numbers of children... This is a completely different approach than 10, 15 years ago. It shows that it's the attitude from which I started my speech. On the basis that this is a purely private or personal matter, it changes. European countries must take into account in their family policy, social policy, economic policy the problem of the fertility of societies. Why? For a very simple reason. Because of the demography And here I am close to thinking of French experts, in fact it is part of the economy. It's not so much a part of statistics or any other science, it's just an element of economics. In fact, the demographic factor depends on economic development, economic condition, and in the situation of countries such as Poland Also the performance of social systems, social security, pensions, health systems and other systems. And that is why I would very much like to commend the government for the evolution of its position. From that first statement in this term of office, of October 2017, that the government is not working on such solutions, to a positive position. And we already have a bill. However, I would like to call on the Minister and the Government to respond flexibly to all signals, not to leave the matter, so to speak, to the case of the voivodship administrative courts. It can be very different and just leave some area to be unspoken Only to try to construct such a mechanism, in the sense of mechanics of the law or legal solutions, which will be flexible enough to take into account real social problems and social needs on the one hand, and on the other hand to exclude certain forms of use of these solutions for purposes which are absolutely contrary to the provisions of the law. And that's what I would appeal to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! The senators, and even the minister, had a problem with how to actually settle this bill, determine whether it is part of family policy or whether this additional new parental benefit is part of family policy If so, it would have to be explained why the income criteria are here. If it is an element of pension provision, then it would be necessary to explain why this change does not apply to the insurance system, whether it is an element of social assistance. The Minister here said it was a security benefit. Because, actually, ladies and gentlemen, insurance systems, public insurance systems, which consist of a social security system, are divided, roughly speaking, into 2 segments: insurance segment and security segment, mainly implemented as social assistance. In fact, it is said that these are 2 networks: the first is the one to identify lasting life risks that cannot be individually secured, so the state is entering, organizing insurance systems, most often mandatory insurance systems, and the second is the one to catch those who are not in these systems for various reasons, and the latter is such a network under the network. Personally, I don't think this confusion is necessary. The Minister showed And rightly so, here's a full agreement. That you think about families with children in the insurance system. In particular, people with disabilities are thought of and in their case they have always been expected to pay contributions by the State to the insurance system. I am surprised that in this case we are not going this way, trying to clarify this first network, the insurance network, so to construct that this group of people who have not worked out their pensions, who have raised more than four children in the family, could be covered in the future by pension benefits developed or supplemented by the State. Because this solution, Minister, would be in line with what we're talking about, i.e. to ensure that social policies are consistent. The solution I am talking about would, however, encourage us to think about whether, if the conditions allow it, we should take up employment and work out our benefits. Therefore, it seems to me that the path that has been chosen, although it is aimed at an acceptable goal, is not right. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Fellas, please... [[I'm sorry.]] [[I'm asking you to stop talking, or at least keep them quiet so the senator can finish his speech.]] Who are we talking about? Multiplicity is not included in the price. When we held conferences on this subject in previous years, Mrs. Krupska from the association of multi-child families... We were talking about the Big Family Charter at the time, and we brought it in. But we said then, statistically, we showed that these 3 plus families are just 17%. all Polish families. In 2002, there were 1 million more and in 2016. Only 627,000. But, ladies and gentlemen, in this group of those who have four children and more... Well, that's only a quarter. So it's actually a little under 157,000 families. This was the case in 2016, and now there are even fewer. If we put this on the numbers that the Minister said were going to say, I share Senator Borowski's view that due to such a bureaucratic approach it will be less than 85 000 and even less than 80,000 families And we'll see that this is just over half of the number that I've quoted here. So what would stand in the way of facing all those who talk like Senator Jackowski just now? That you need to reward this great effort of mothers and fathers who raised children in large families, families 4 plus, and agreed to work, to reward them during retirement? Why not, Minister? Well, the research I was referring to showed that the 4 plus families belong to the very poor. And it's probably not... It's a shame Senator Radziwiłł left at the moment, because he was reacting a little bit here. And I'm reacting, too. These are the cases that the Minister spoke of when his husband made so much money that he not only kept four and more children, but still had enough for a decent life in retirement. These cases are very rare. In Poland it is usually the case that the larger the families, the poorer the poorer. [[It's true.]] The pensions of those who have kept their job in these families are very low, very low. However, they often exceed the lowest pension, maybe a few pennies, and that already excludes them. That'll rule it out. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about those other families, of which there are 60 and 70 thousand, no more. I think it is right to amend the Civic Platform, which says that those poor families, really poor families, which I stress to those with very low pensions 'Cause they probably used, Minister, the periods you were talking about, e.g. took parental leave, paid from the lowest ground and had very low pensions The allowance should be included. That's what we want. It's not a big expense. It's not about billions, it's not about billions. Therefore, I think that the amendment that we are proposing, referring to the amount of the care supplement, so that it is 200% of this supplement, or 431 PLN per month... Such an allowance for a small, narrow group of sixty-six thousand people is a cost within 300 million PLN. Really, ladies and gentlemen. We're about to talk about how much money is going to go to state propaganda. It's already been passed in the Seym. And that's what the money is for. And money for families in such a difficult situation, for mothers, for fathers who raised a large group of children and therefore have very low pensions, is not there? Can't we afford it? Definitely standing, and we should do it. Undoubtedly, the bill would also gain a great deal if many senators, who here, from this speaker, said that it was a law setting a lot of conditions, often unclear, vague, which would create interpretational problems and prolong the possibility of obtaining a witness. That is why I believe that simplification of the article. 3 because... well, in a simpler way, especially with regard to fathers... If we were to make sure that they were treated equally, and not just as, I would say, a substitute for mothers... The point is that they should be treated equally in this bill. That's why this article should be... [[Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan: Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. I'm just gonna quote him. This should be the case: the benefit is granted to a mother who has had and raised at least four children or to a father who has raised at least four children. And that is the end of it, Minister, because talking about conditions only causes a bureaucratic myth in relation to a really small group of beneficiaries, completely unnecessary, and it is worth giving it up. Mr. Marshal, I put on your hands the amendment of the Senators' Group in this regard. [[Thank you very much.]] And I ask you to think about it, because it is worth improving this bill and including all those retired who have raised at least four children at the expense of great effort. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u111	Thank you very much. Senator Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that during the process of this law we must remember that it is a parent supplementary benefit, but also that it is a benefit that is financed by the State and not by the FUS. Therefore, these amendments, which concern pension matters, cannot be taken into account in the case of this law, because they go beyond its scope. And I think you're aware of that. I came to speak as one of the few women here, because, as I can see, neither of the ladies has spoken yet. I would like to say that the fact that this law is being processed shows that the state cares about families and cares for people who have not claimed their own rights so far. Because these moms, who raised four and more children, did not strike or write petitions that they deserved anything, they worked hard and worked longer than 20 years, because the child is counted to eighteen years of age. If it was four children, it came out at least 21 years of work, hard work 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Using facts, I'll say an average employee works 180 hours a month. Mom works over 700 hours a month. So far these people have not received any benefits, they have worked without any remuneration for it. They didn't pay their contributions because they had nothing to do with it, which is why they didn't raise any money in their retirement account. And after education, raising their children, moms or fathers who took care of it, were practically without benefits, without appreciating their work. Actually, there are some quiet heroes that we haven't talked about so far and we probably wouldn't have remembered for a long time if it hadn't been for the initiative and the government and the Members and the senators who noticed the role of these families. The fact is that these people that we are trying to do right now, ladies and gentlemen, parents who took care of four and more children, worked, took care of these children under very difficult conditions, because some of these people are over 70 years old. Now, raising a child is relatively easier, because now there are no diapers left to wash, you buy pampers, and you get some extras for children there, and I'm not talking about 500+, because that's what you talk about all the time, and it's about families who have since their second child. All these facilitations were quite unavailable to these people. All the more reason for us to make sure that they have some benefits, and those benefits that will practically restore their dignity. Working for many years for their family, they worked for you at the same time. They worked to get their children some education to go to work later and improve the situation of the national economy, so they worked on all those who later received pensions. So that out of the money that these children had worked out, the money belonged to everything, just not to those parents who didn't pay their contributions. I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. At the same time, I would very much like to ask you to reflect on those amendments which do not directly concern the source of funding and which can hardly be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as this bill is concerned, I will not comment on too many of its records, but I do have some comments on it, so to speak, from practice, from my life. Well, I think as a parent of eight children with my wife, there are many things I can confirm. Well, multiplicity has never been included in the price. Now it's changing a little bit, and thank God. How much does it cost, how much time does it take? Well, when I hear people saying things around here... I'm not commenting because that's what you might know if you survive it, if you wear it all on your back, on your hump. That's when you know what you're talking about. This is a step in the right direction, because the issue of demography in Poland is, Ladies and gentlemen, a ticking bomb. This situation can even lead us to the fact that society will not only grow old, but will even enter the phase of extinction. Minister, I'm going to give you a few interesting facts about this. In 1960, Turkey had 27 million 120 thousand people, Iran equals 22 million, Iraq 7 million 380 thousand, Poland 29 million 480 thousand. So in 1960 Poland had 2 million 360 thousand more inhabitants than Turkey, 7 million 480 thousand more than Iran and 22 million 100 thousand more than Iraq. As of the end of 2018, the Council adopted Turkey has 81 million people, Iran, 82 million, Iraq, 39 million 340 thousand, Poland, 37 million, 860 thousand. So by the end of 2018, Poland has 43 million 220 thousand fewer population than Turkey and 44 million 150 thousand fewer than Iran. Even Iraq's already ahead of us. And it has 1 million and 480 thousand more inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, if this continues, if we are in the twelfth, two hundred and tenth place in the world, if the number of children per woman is 1,31 or 1,32 So how many more lives do we have left here on the planet Earth? Of course, I'm saying this with some exaggeration, but this is something real, which is why any positive steps towards family policy... And I'm judging this bill as positively as possible. It should be adopted, and I will vote for it. This is where Senator Orzechowska spoke to me about how much time it takes... And she calculated that this is 21 years in the case of four children. But that would be it if the kids showed up every year. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, Ladies and gentlemen, I face the officials, the ladies, the minister, the director, etc., but as she often translates papers from place to place for half of her life, produces volumes of various reports, sometimes it is unknown to what anyone needs... And we produce more and more of them, the state pays huge amounts of money for it, there are good payouts and then good pensions. So how to look at this work, which, as Senator Jackowski said, creates about 30% GDP, and it's practically without payment, without anything? How do you compare that, how do you connect it? Even in this bill... Of course, you can go further and make changes, but couldn't you do this: please, there is a pension for four children, but for example. in the case of five, 100 zł could be added, in the case of six, 200 zł, in the case of seven, 300 zł, in order also to show in some way that these are costs and that you need great sacrifice to be... Couldn't you think about that? Ladies and gentlemen, in the last 10 or 15 years, the number of officials in the offices has increased by 150 thousand. And did this work, which is done at home, although the state did not sign an employment contract with a woman who has e.g. Four kids... Well, you could sign it, like. 4 times 4 for 16 years. Of course, I'm throwing it so passwordically, but you can work it out, think about it, discuss it. Five, six... And then the minimum wage... But isn't this woman's job, 24 hours a day, a hundred times, a thousand times? It's unappreciable. More important for the nation, for its duration, for its existence than putting paper from poop to poop, than writing reports, sometimes appallingly dumb, stupid? After all, I've been doing this as an old man, as a commune's chief for over 20 years, and I know what kind of psychic things you had to create and hire people to do it. And there's something else. Dear Minister, pro-family policy should be based on two pillars. One is what you do: 500+, pensions for families... There are many, many other things that are well done. And that's the foundation. But there's a second pillar of pro-family policy. Once, when I was an old-timer, I had contact with one of the German elders because we had a signed agreement with the district of Südwestpfalz from Germany, and so we talked about it, because there demographics were already a problem. And I ask him: what is the problem, after all, you Germans are very rich, you have a lot of money and you finance families, you support them, etc., so where is the problem that you have fewer and fewer children, and more and more of you have immigrants? And he's showing me Kopf's head... So the first basic thing is that in society, in the nation there is respect for a child, for a man, that it is the primacy of values for a mother, in motherhood, the primacy of all that constitutes us. Because the unborn children... And here are the numbers that, I think, scare you. That since 1956, we've been thrown into the canal. I mean, they killed him. Approximately 30 million unborn children... So, ladies and gentlemen, let's not be surprised today that Iran, who respects... or Iraq, who respects a child... In 1960 they had 3, 4 or 20 million fewer children than we had, and today they have twice as many children. Iran's 80 million people, Turkey's 80 million, these countries are growing dynamically, they're strong, they've got an army, they've got everything. What about us? And last but not least, I don't remember the name A prominent economist: demography will be the first economic factor in the coming times. And I think that's confirmed, because we're already looking for others in Europe... And ours are out of Europe. Hence the great, gigantic task before the government. And today's bill is a step in the right direction. Of course, there are a lot of nuances here, and they could be discussed and everyone could probably make a lot of amendments, but this is a step in the right direction, as I think the big step in the right direction was 500+. Although, as I say, I did not take advantage of it, I gladly voted for those who would receive it. And there's a lot of things to think about, to think about. But on the other hand, we also need to run this first pillar of pro-family policy, so that in people's thinking there is respect for man, for a child, for a mother, for motherhood. Because if it doesn't, then... one that has no respect, even if we pay him 10,000 zlotys per month to one child, this population, demography in Poland will not strengthen, will not increase. I may be a little chaotic, but I wanted to draw attention to some of these issues. And as for the set-up Once again, I am going to vote in favour of, as... Well, so that, let's say, we don't do great propaganda here, which is now a great policy and great implementation... but to take it as a step in a very, very right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u115	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u116	Ladies and gentlemen! I don't need to be taught what it is to pay attention to demographics or what it is to support multi-child families, because in 2005. In other words, almost 15 years ago, we adopted the city council of Wroclaw... I prepared a resolution that was about to serve... And she still works very well today. It's a two plus three and even more program because we've decided that nowadays a family with a 2+3 model is a multi-child family and raising such a family requires both parents to make exceptional sacrifices. We did it. then and to this day, it's working. But, of course, it was done in a local government that doesn't have certain opportunities that you have. And what did we do there? We're there, among other things... To this day there is a large family card, that's for example. free tickets on Sundays and holidays for the whole family or large discounts so that you can go to the zoo together, or you can go to the pool or use the water park. There are also various types of discounts for research, various types of health services, those which are paid and which can be done. Such a fantastic programme has been in place since 2005. Why am I talking about this? Because we have two different models. I think what we're doing today is what we're doing. This bill is supposed to secure... like it's going to give away something that's been going on for many, many years: that mothers were sitting in their homes, not working, raising their children, and at that time mostly fathers were working. And today we are dealing with people who have worked hard to raise these children by working. And we want to help them. But I would like to point out that... and this is the model that says, well, we're giving justice to these mothers. I totally agree with that, and I don't think there's a difference between all of us here. And of course it's not like one of the senators said, that we're supporting this childhood program or something. This program applies to women in their 60's or fathers in their 60's, and I hope that we have made such an amendment, because there are widowers out there who may have experienced such a situation. This program isn't really supposed to support fertility. At the moment, we should be working in the social assistance system, but also in the pension system and in general in the state aid system and in the state organisation, a model that will help a woman or a man to raise children, as much as they want, e.g. in a family of many children, so that they can earn this pension at the same time. I think that's why we should bet more on daycare, kindergarten, mobile working time that will help women have children without prejudice to their career. I'm all for it. I'm talking about women, because it's mostly about women. Now I'd like to say that if we're looking from this point of view, we have to. I urge you here to support our amendment and to appreciate those women who have worked their entire lives while raising many children. I here, for God's sake, do not dissuade women who had, for example. Five kids and they stayed home. I just want to give justice to those women who had five children and were still working, and we're dealing with cases like this. Let's also note that if you say... One of the senators just said that some people are reproving themselves, and these women never reprimand themselves. But there are situations that are very difficult to balance. Or, for example, Raising two disabled children requires as much effort as raising five disabled children? Note, too, that people who raise people with disabilities are often left alone for old age without any help. And people who have many families, most often have children, grandchildren, etc. They have a huge family, which, like children, are well-mannered to help parents. What would I like to talk to you about? I would encourage us to support our amendments, to reflect on equalisation, on the elimination of injustice. The point is, the woman who worked and raised the children was making this huge effort... Well, I guess we all agree, even Senator Radziwił, that a woman who raises seven children and works does more than the one who's at home raising seven children. I don't think it's possible to say that a woman who raises children and works at the same time, no matter how many children she has... You can't say it's easy. Mostly they're loaded... I don't want to get into other problems anymore, that it's about women. What about the men who, as Senator Radziwił was here, are resting at work? We could think about that, too. It's women who are burdened with raising their children all the time. What am I talking about, and what am I asking? However, I ask you to reflect on our amendments. I think they're going in the right direction. I know it's mixing, what I'm talking about. The inclusion of parents of disabled children is such a confusion of concepts, because there are two different systems of • here we have benefits, and there is something else. In conclusion, I'll tell you what I'm missing. Minister, I miss seeing these problems together. The impression of injustice comes from the fact that we, when building some kind of programs segmentally, make changes that make some people feel hurt. And these people say, "I've worked my whole life, but it's someone else who's never worked, gets some benefit, and I have as many children or one less child." I would like to point out that if we're preparing... I think in this case, the program was raped. He was probably made for the next election that's coming up. Let's not do this kind of election program, just think about it and fix the system. The last thing I want to say. If it's not a social benefit, a benefit or something, it's a benefit that's supposed to be a bit like a woman's retirement, then for God's sake! Let's not do that so that she has to give some kind of certification. Let's do it another way. Let us be courageous and give witness to all the women who did this. Don't let it be discretionary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u117	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I have already spoken as the rapporteur's senator. Now I'm going to make a very brief presentation of a few thoughts. First of all, we are aware that this is the first step. As I can remember and wonder when such a project appeared in the Polish Parliament, I remember that it happened during the Solidarity Election Action 19 years ago. Sleep. Ms Urszula Wachowska patronized this project. This project was not accepted. It's been many years because 19 years, and we're talking about it very seriously right now. And I am convinced that this project will be implemented, and I am convinced that this project will be adopted in the High House. But this shows that this area, which is very close to us, also this discussion pointed out that it required such a long time. The project is certainly not perfect, we have shown many different shortcomings here. But life is not perfect at all, and as far as individual solutions are concerned, this is often the case. So this isn't a weird situation. I don't know if the Minister would share that opinion, but if there were the possibility of such a job, that the government was first preparing some thesis, there was a discussion in the Senate and only then there was writing this law, we would have today a document... well, also imperfect, but in any case, upstairs as far as perfection is concerned. And that's what I recommend you pay attention. All of us. Maybe this is how we would work so that this discussion before is stronger, so that the end result is better discussed. That's the first line. The second issue concerns the problem of fatherhood, which is here... We are discussing this in connection with the proposed amendment, but we are also talking in the context of Mom and Dad's powers. We are aware that the people who will mostly benefit from this are moms. But I encourage this and I am glad that we are speaking in this House. Not with a half-mouth, not somewhere on the side. It's about the importance of a father for raising and caring for children. We must realise that the marginalisation of fatherhood, which is currently taking place in Poland, is manifested by the fact that hundreds of thousands of Polish children are only raised by mothers. If we do not promote everywhere, in every place where we can, also on the occasion of such a law, committed, rational fatherhood, if we do not show the role of a father, who is not an encore mom, who is not a plus mom, but a dad, and who is necessary for the proper upbringing of a child, then we will have trouble. So that I ask very much that in all situations, even today, we strongly encourage fathers to take on their indispensable role. Finally, I would just like to think for a moment about what direction we are going when it comes to social policy. Is it a social policy that strengthens families and puts it at the heart of the family, or is it a pro-family policy through benefits, services, but support by self-government and the state in such a way that certain functions are taken away from families? I believe that we should consider this very seriously and devote this discussion not only to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, but also to the wider debate. Because you can see such a tilt that the government, the state more and more is proposing, more and more giving, starting with school books, books, reductions, cancellation of tickets in public transport... And all of a sudden it turns out that there's almost no field for the family here, because the government, which works very strongly here, or the state that solves many of these problems... Well, if we go too far in such solutions, the family will be weak, because the family is also strong because of the obligations that it carries out, because it has to support one another and its difficulties that arise must be solved. On the other hand, the country Let's do it again. It comes in subsidiary when the family can't help itself. This is, for example. The issue of the Asylum Fund is that we do not give the right rank to the fact that there is a commitment to maintenance, to support the old. There are grown children who have an obligation to support these people, and we treat it as something completely side-by-side, some historical matter, not a case that needs to be given the right rank. I call for us to give such a rank to these social issues so that the family is actually strong, strong also the responsibilities, the functions it performs. The point is that the state should not replace the family in various aspects, because it will weaken its function, weaken the family, and this will also affect demographic issues and everyone else. I would like to add such 3 comments to this discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. And finally, Mr. Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will start by expressing my deep appreciation for the fact that this law is in the order of our parliamentary actions at all. For it is important to remember that it is essential to establish some respect, some positive payment for mothers who raised at least four children. And that is not the result of how Senator Rulewski... [[Yeah, good morning.]] ...confirms the disappearance of the bond of solidarity and responsibility of children for the fate of the parents who gave them life and raised them, but this is the result of certain civilization processes. Let me remind you that the first social security policy has already been introduced by a guy named Bismarck. This institution exists to provide people with certain autonomy, so that at an older age people are not required to care and help children who are not always able to provide it. I will also remind you of a beautiful episode from the life of Robert Schuman, whom he considers to be the father of Europe. After World War I, when Alsace and Lorraine returned to the French government, he, as a prominent politician, considered it to be negotiated The social rights which were then much more advanced in Prusai in Germany, and in those areas seized by France, should be maintained even though they were not so developed in the rest of the French territory. Thus, it is always important to increase the bar when it comes to establishing certain powers that promote human dignity. So much for entry... I would also like to add that this is also an obligation that arises from the article. 67 of our constitution, which states that people who are unable to meet their needs, especially after cessation of professional activity, should receive specific benefits. And it is this law that applies to those people, mothers who do not receive normal pension benefits because they have done no less hard work, or maybe even more important than working, the work of raising four children. Therefore, as I say, this bill deserves full recognition. Of course, this does not mean that it is perfect. To be honest, I believe that some of the wordings that occur here could be replaced by others, which would point out more precisely to appreciating the role of these mothers. For here is a number of statements which are of such a nature, that as if they suggest that this country is, on a generous basis, a provider, and not that there is a certain right that these mothers are entitled to because of their appreciation of their merits, their role. That's why I think that. the wording as set out in Article. 3. that the benefit may be granted, should be replaced by the wording that it is entitled to, such is the terminology of the Social Insurance Fund Pension Insurance Act. Similarly, it appears in Article. 5 The statement that the benefit may be granted by the President of the Social Security Office is, in my opinion, too weak to stress that it is a benefit which is due and which is not optional. Because the wording "can admit" at first glance may give rise to the belief that it is optional and that it is a discretionary decision of the President of the Social Security Office, which is probably not the case, because it appears from the other regulations that it is possible to appeal to him first from this decision of the President of the Social Security Office, and then it is still permissible even to take legal action. Besides, this is a regulation slightly modelled on this regulation Article. 82 Act on pension provision from the Social Insurance Fund. There is a discretionary decision to grant benefits by the President of the Social Security Office to those who did not meet the requirements. And here it is even stated that such a discretionary decision is subject to appeal to the court. By the way, I'm not convinced... I wonder if the Minister has spoken here, saying that the decision of the President of the Social Security Office, which has been re-issued as a result of an appeal against the original decision of refusal, is subject to an appeal to the administrative court. Because the rule provides that the provisions of the CCC apply, and if the CCC applies, I believe that it will be a labour and social security court, not an administrative court. The same court which is competent in any claim relating to insurance benefits, including pensions, should be competent. But it is generally a good thing that this bill has appeared. I think it's a good start. I think that in the future, if the financial situation of the state allows, we should also extend this regulation by granting certain benefits, as the senators here mentioned, to mothers who were not only raising children, they were still working, because it is heroic. It's not easy to reconcile work with raising four children. Indeed, we may wonder whether the role of such mothers has not been underestimated by the fact that they have for the time being been overlooked in these benefits. You can also think about what Senator Borowski was talking about, so whether it is really right to ignore those people who, although they are over 60 years old, are obviously about mothers. They'd like to keep working. Is it appropriate to assume that if they are working and earning some income, they should be left out in the case of this benefit? Of course, it is, as I said, a question of the future. From the point of view of the economy as a whole, especially at this stage, when we basically have a shortage of people to work, it is worth considering whether we should not go in this direction in the future, in order to allow mothers, who sometimes only after their children have been brought up after the age of sixty, to discover the gift of work, the desire to work and to realize themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, because this fits beautifully both in our constitution and in a number of more moral regulations, I would like to remind you here, for example, of a similar request which follows from the Charter of Family Rights issued by the Holy Father John Paul II, that law should be fully applauded, as I am doing here. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u121	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Rulewski. The second performance is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I remind you that my original speech ended with an appeal in which I called on the government to take account of the fact that the greatest care, education, material work is borne by a family that raises disabled children. Of course, to the most extent, although the definition does not speak of it. I'm talking about it because such a person, a mother, usually, is entering into a period of poverty at the beginning of his family's operation. Even if she were rich, the cost of treatment could exceed her, as evidenced by various calls made by rich families. Now, the second issue I haven't raised yet. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 32 income titles are listed in this Act, which the applicant must take into account in order to obtain a formal benefit. Among these titles are unfortunately, Minister, and here I express my surprise, titles of honor or social character, i.e. various kinds of additions, and this is for patriotism. Read more: Veterans The social aid benefits, which generally did not fall into the burden of income because they were granted for other reasons and are not income, are a sign of recognition. Finally, I appeal to the Minister, who is also an activist of Solidarity. Minister, you have concluded your speech in response to a question from one of the senators so that the ZUS will be able to rewrite this mass of conclusions, so deeply bureaucratic. It's beautiful. You said it was in the case of 500+ that it was done. But in the case of 500+ there were reserve funds for employees of local governments and state-owned companies for equipment and salaries, which allowed for the introduction of this system so quickly and efficiently. It's something I admire. But in this case there is only your appeal or conviction that ZUS employees again As I remember from my 20-year parliamentary career, they will cope with a great deal of action. I hope that the Minister, who is a specialist in insurance matters, knows that this ZUS employee will have to follow someone in England, America, Poland, whether he receives scholarships or not. That's what ZUS has never done before. He's never been an investigator in these cases. Then I have an appeal to you. Since you haven't included raises for these ZUS employees in the budget, I ask you to start the reserve, at least for the first quarter, so that they can make the right and good decisions that many senators are talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u123	You have a voice, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u124	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Shortly, because probably all arguments have already been dropped. I would like to return to the point which I raised when I asked the Minister why it was not included and here I refer to what Senator Cichoń was talking about at the end of his speech. Also those parents, but probably especially mothers who were able to reconcile motherhood, raising four, and often more children, with the fact that they worked. This is, if I understand the government's intention correctly, another stage, another idea to make Poles more attractive to have children, so as to increase their childhood. And once again, I wonder why the next plan goes only to the poorest families, but it is not taken into account at all middle class, i.e. people who can not only raise children, but also work, earn and be active. I find it profoundly unfair that those people who can do this, those mothers who can do it, are not included in this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u125	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that you have tabled legislative proposals in writing by Senator Rulewski and Senator Augustyn. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the conclusions? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u126	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to limit myself to thanking you only. First of all, I would like to thank the High House for a long, but very deep and interesting discussion, for those proposals that shed new light on the solutions proposed by this law. I would also like to thank all those who have made a special contribution to the idea that, first, the idea of passing a law implementing this social objective was created, and secondly, the project was quite rapidly created. I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for his favor with this project. But I would also like to say that this project has been worked to a large extent within the Social Committee of the Council of Ministers and here the contribution of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who personally participated in this work, is invaluable. I would also like to thank the staff of my department, the department under my supervision, the Social Security Department. I am here with Director Eliza Wiśniewska, who has also worked with great commitment on this project. So that I thank all those people. And I would like to encourage the honourable senators to support this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u127	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Election Code. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1087 and the report of the committee In print No 1087 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Legislative Committee, Senator Marek Pęk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the 3 joint Senate committees a report on the Sejm's adoption on 31 January this year. a law amending the law on the electoral code. To begin with, a few words have traditionally been made about the subject of the amendment. The Act amends the provisions of the electoral code to a wide variety of extent. There are quite a few changes, but they are all very procedural, with the exception of a few substantive changes, relating to the technical course of the electoral process, the functioning of electoral committees, the procedures for registering electoral committees and lists of candidates, the flexibility of composition, the procedure for filling and the work of electoral authorities. The aim of the Act is also to remove some gaps, errors and doubts arising from previous amendments. As regards the most important changes in the group concerning the procedures for registering electoral committees and lists of candidates, here we are dealing with the extension of certain deadlines, shortening e.g. the deadline for remedying the defect in the notification of the setting up of an electoral committee from 5 to 3 days or the shortening of certain time limits for appeal or complaint from 3 to 2 days, e.g. to appeal to the State Election Commission against the provisions of the District Election Commission to register a list of candidates or to a complaint against the order of the PKW to refuse to accept a notification of the creation of an electoral committee. With regard to the changes in the flexibility of membership, voting arrangements and the work of electoral authorities, the most important change is the restoration of one electoral commission in all elections except for the local elections. We give up the so-called. night committees, counting votes, as I said, with the exception of local elections, which are by their very nature the most complicated, and the process of counting votes in their case is the most time-consuming, labor-intensive. Here, this solution introduced by previous amendments remains. With regard to the most important substantive changes, here, perhaps the most bearable change in media is the limitation of passive electoral rights in the elections to the mayor, the mayor, the president of the city. To date, this right has not been granted to persons sentenced to imprisonment, and now it will not be granted to persons sentenced to imprisonment. The substantive point of this change is that we are increasing the standard of being a candidate in elections, and from now on they will not be able to run also those sentenced to punishment other than imprisonment, for example. on penalties for restrictions on freedom or fines. Maybe I'll go straight to the committee because this topic has been discussed by the senators at the committee meeting for quite a while. It seems to me that such a simple answer to the question why we introduce differences in standards between the elections to the Sejm and the Senate and other elections is that the standard for parliamentary elections is set out in the Constitution, so that, in order to change this standard, it would be necessary to have a constitutional majority, which we do not have, and when it comes to this standard in the local elections, it is regulated at the statutory level, so Parliament has the power to change such a standard. Perhaps someday, when we have a constitutional majority, we will also modify this standard at the level of parliamentary elections. As far as these substantive changes are concerned, there was also a discussion about such a change that the results of the vote on Polish naval ships are included in the electoral district appropriate for the Śródmieście district in Warsaw. So far it has been a district competent for the company's seat. Some reservations about this change were raised by a senate legislator who believed that this change could be seen as a change in the electoral districts, but this doubt seems to have been explained in such a way that the legislator had waived these doubts. One more change that I would like to highlight here is that until now, when the councilman was elected as a Member, he had 14 days to make a declaration to the Marshal of the Sejm that he had resigned from the mandate of the councilman, the mayor, the president of the city, otherwise he had lost his mandate. The current amendment provides that the councilman elected as a Member will no longer have those 14 days to consider and the expiry of the term of office of the Councillor will take place on the day of the expiry of the term of office, so that this will be done as a matter of fact from the vending machine. As far as the meeting of the 3 joint committees is concerned, I will say that apart from the senators, representatives of the National Election Office were present at the meeting, of course there was a Senate legislature, and there was also a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and a representative of the Board of the Polish City Association for Legislative Affairs. At the beginning of the committee's meeting, there was a dispute of a procedural nature about why we are proceeding this law at such an express pace. A request has been made by the President to proceed despite the fact that the text of the Act has not been delivered within the statutory deadline, and the application has also been made against it. Finally, we decided to proceed with this bill. Later, there was an ongoing discussion on whether we are really dealing with changes of a technical nature, or whether we are not making changes here, on which the Constitutional Tribunal has previously ruled that they should not be made in the period before the forthcoming elections. Well, here, too, there is such an opinion that these changes are not of such a nature. The following are cited, among others: the position of President of the State Election Commission, which also sees these changes as such, i.e. as procedural changes, technical changes, not the most important ones. I don't think I'm going to discuss this much in detail anymore. The committee's meeting ended with a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. This proposal was supported by a majority of 3 joint committees. A minority request has also been submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u129	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Legislative Committee, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! Dear Representatives of the State Election Commission! High Izbo! On behalf of the minorities, I would like to make and justify a request by minorities to reject this law. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with what was also mentioned at the beginning, i.e. Since serious submissions should be analysed and there should be time to analyse. It cannot be without any opinion, day to day or hour to hour, that the Law of the Sejm, which was adopted in the morning, and then on the same day, was examined at a joint meeting of three committees. I remind you that the rules allow for a shorter period of 1 day, but provided that there are special circumstances. Unfortunately, these particular circumstances were not presented at the committee meeting, and no arguments were put forward as to the specific circumstances in order to justify the application of this provision of the Rules of Procedure. And if that's the case, then the rules are broken. You can fill out the rule book, but you just have to give it. It may be debatable, it may not be enough for some, it may not be enough for others, because special circumstances are not clear in the legal sense, but no particular circumstance has been given. That's why we think the rules have been broken. I'm confirming it again. And this law shouldn't be prosecuted on the committee yesterday. It's not like that. It happened differently, as I said, in violation of the rules. Further question, ladies and gentlemen, as to content. We reminded you that at the time of the change... It was, as we remember, two electoral committees. From this speaker we said out loud that it is completely pointless that it is not necessary at all. And what did it turn out to be? Well, we're actually going back to one committee, because in practice it turns out that the transmission from one committee to another in some regional electoral committees took so long that in some cases at that time this one committee could count the votes. Well, that was the situation. And this bill provides for a return to one committee, but, ladies and gentlemen, not in the local elections. On the basis of the experience of the local elections, because this was the case, you are withdrawing from the 2 committees, but you leave 2 committees just in the local elections. Well, to me, it's completely absurd, and I don't get it at all, especially since we should strive to harmonise, if possible, the right to vote. Because what is the difference when it comes to voting, or to parliament, or to Europarlia, in a technical sense? Come on, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of passive electoral law. Well, we absolutely can't agree on that. The press reports that this is lex Zdanowska, under the influence of one particular situation we change the law. I hear here that the majority's representative says this: we cannot change the constitution, it is written in the Constitution that the passive electoral right does not have a person legally convicted of an intentional criminal offence from public indictment to imprisonment, we cannot change it, therefore we must... we can change the bill and change it. Ladies and gentlemen, is that an argument? After all, the constitution is a pattern. Not to mention that the requirements for the president, the senator, the MPs are some sort of pattern down. And they ask the people downstairs: why should this be higher legal requirements for us, and lower requirements for the president and for the parliamentarians, what is in the constitution? Besides, ladies and gentlemen, this issue of amending the constitution was also very debatable. I want to summon, among other things. the opinion of Professor Piotrowski, who then claimed that this change is inappropriate and restricts voting rights. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, as is the case. in the United States? A person convicted of a criminal offence against the State, i.e. treason and espionage, is not entitled to a perverse electoral right, in other cases this is acceptable. After all, the verifier of trust is the voter, is the society. The public is supposed to know who to choose. At the committee meeting I also referred to this argument, which was quoted earlier, namely the division in the Second Republic of Poland in criminal law into the so-called. crimes that are disgraceful and unspeakable. It was disgraceful, well... it depended on how it was classified... But, ladies and gentlemen, there are crimes. And I don't want to argue that they don't have social harm, so that we're clear, they're crimes. In a social sense, people are not discredited. And I gave this example to my students, the constitutionalists, very often discussing this change of constitution, also in the committee I raised this issue. An example of life taken: a man in defense of the devout woman he was accompanied by punches someone in the face and breaks his nose. Intentional crime? Well, it's a deliberate crime. He's getting parole because it's an organ failure over seven days. Ladies and gentlemen, in a social sense, in general perception, it is certainly not disgraceful. Very often it is thought that this is the proper behavior of a man. Of course not, because you shouldn't do justice on your own. It's clear to us as lawyers. But we're talking about social feelings, social trust. Or, for example, The destruction of property on the occasion of some protests... Ladies and gentlemen, the voter is the one who checks who has the right to choose one person or another. The legislator shouldn't have to eliminate it. Or what will arise? The situation is that a trustworthy person who is deprived of the possibility of being a Member has political power, so to speak, outside the parliament, and it is in Parliament that all of this is to be scanned. That is what Parliament is for, so that the person who gains social trust is in Parliament and not outside of it. The other one's dangerous. Cannot be assumed And that's what the constitutionalists say. That the parties or local associations expose criminals and the dark people choose criminals, so that we We, as legislators, must put an end to this. It's not like that, ladies and gentlemen. That's not true. A little more trust in a sovereign who has power. That's what constitutionalists are paying attention to, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we absolutely cannot agree with this. That's a basic charge. I just want to remind you... I have found a stenographic record from the joint meeting of the committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee on 13 and 14 December 2010. I have had the pleasure of chairing these deliberations on which we have adopted the electoral code. As we remember, we then adopted such a very important change as the introduction of one-mandate electoral districts to the Senate, a very important change. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to quote from this discussion the statement of Senator Stanisław Piotrowicz, who said so when it comes to electoral law, election of the wojites, mayors, etc. Piotrowicz: I think there must be some logic. It is not possible to make greater demands for people who make decisions in a narrower way than for people who decide the fate of the state. It seems that the situation is the opposite at the moment, we place greater demands on the lowest, in the local government, and we place less requirements on Members, Senators and presidential candidates. This is the reversal to say, the essence of things. It seems that such an equalization would be reasonable in all respects. Senator Zbigniew Cichoń: Well, there are greater demands for those who would run for the authorities of the local government and for the wojites than for the president, the senator or the Member. In my opinion, this is some kind of sprain that should be eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen, what situation are we in right now? These irrational arguments were put forward by your representatives, current representatives, the first face of reform, and the second face of reform. Mr Silchoń, current Vice-President of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and Petitions, very much appreciated by me. How can you, ladies and gentlemen, agree and then change your mind? I said, why, what happened? What's the matter? I'm asking you, do we have to change our minds? We don't change our minds. We're not changing our minds, we're in this, ladies and gentlemen, consistent. And that's one of the main reasons for this, except for the formal fact that we're against this bill. I think there are some issues that need to be considered... Even if we're going back to one of the two committees, we still have to prepare it completely. Besides, we can't agree that you can't even... Well, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal without amendments was immediately prepared, i.e. Articleed immediately, so that in this law nothing can actually be improved. I said, why, what's going on again? Well, there's too short a deadline, what they were talking about... But this will be discussed, and I don't want to go into details. I just want to remind you, as rapporteur of the minority committee, that these are issues raised by a representative of the Polish Towns Association, e.g. such that in some situations, when dealing with larger districts, 5 members in committees are not enough, should be for example. 7 members that candidates for election committees shall be submitted within 45 days at the latest and not within a shorter period, we believe that this should be the case, etc., etc. But these are details, of course very important. But those things I was talking about earlier... First of all, they justify the position of minorities, such a position as to reject this law and to look at it again, in a serious, comprehensive, consistent, constitutional and social sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u131	Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. There are no applicants. We have Minister Magdalena Pietrzak, head of the National Election Office. Would the Minister like to speak? If not, thank you. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to a representative of the government, to the Minister, who is related to this item on the agenda. Are any of your senators... [[Voices from the Chamber: And the questions to the rapporteurs?]] I'm sorry. Excuse me, my cards are glued together. At present, senators may submit questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs from a place lasting no more than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rybicki has a question for Senator Zientarski, right? There you go. [[I have a question for Senator Zientarski and the Senator Rapporteur...]] So to both rapporteurs. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u132	Question for Senator Zientarski, rapporteur of the minority. I'd like to ask if what journalists have in a fairly common opinion is such a pseudo... Colloquially, they call it the "lex Zdanowska". How much will this law limit the possibility of President Łódź to run for office in the next term of office? And further: have there been any studies in this area, how many self-governments are affected by a similar problem? Would you like to illustrate to us what minimum fines can eliminate in the future the possibility for local government officials to exercise passive electoral rights? What's the amount?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u133	Maybe I'll answer the last question. Well, every fine, even the lowest, symbolic one. Every minor conviction, ladies and gentlemen, is already eliminating the person concerned when it comes to the possibility of applying for office, i.e. it eliminates its passive electoral right, in situations actually very often formal. I'm not gonna talk about things anymore, but for example. A businessman may not, at least in court's judgment, file a bankruptcy claim, and then there is a sentence of up to 3 years imprisonment. And even though he's risking himself because he's the one who's gonna suffer the consequences, there might still be criminal consequences for him. He's gonna get a fine or a suspended sentence. And he's eliminated. And there's a lot of rules like that. Besides, I would also like to say that there is talk of crimes prosecuted by public prosecutions, but there are also crimes prosecuted by private prosecutions that are prosecuted in a manner appropriate to public prosecution. I mean, the prosecutor comes in, considering that the social situation requires it or that the circumstances require it. And then, in situations where the prosecutor comes in, we're actually dealing with a public prosecution. But I would like to stress that this is about crime. Even the smallest, but crimes, not offenses. Also fiscal offences Even the smallest, but only crimes. [[Now there will be a question for the senator...]] I'm gonna finish this because I didn't answer all the questions. We have no record of the scope of these self-governments. If President Zdanowska wanted to run for office in the coming term, she wouldn't be able to run in this situation. [[I think you're wrong, Senator.]] Unless there's a conviction. [[That's right!]] But it all depends on the type of crime. [[From the regulations, yes.]] Maybe it's just... I do not know exactly the essence of this act. You have to know the essence of the act, the limitation period, etc. And if there's a blackout, then of course, then you can't talk about a convicted person. It's clear because there are general rules on the criminal code.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u134	Are you done with the senator? [[Yes.]] Senator Rybicki has an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for the Senator of the rapporteur, Senator Blows. Mr. Senator, you mentioned that there were doubts raised about the constitutionality of these rules. I would like to ask you if the judgment of the Constitutional Court was referred to, which is something like this: the legislative silence should be maintained six months before the first election. And how does this apply to the elections to the Europarliament? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u136	Yes, I was referring to the fact that this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was mentioned, and I have further strengthened this position by saying that we are not dealing with a violation of this legislative silence here. This was also the position expressed by the PKW president, Mr Hermelinski. So this case was discussed and we didn't divide... [[It's more about whether there were constitutionalists' opinions. Well, that's...]] No, I don't know about that kind of special opinion. I know about the opinion delivered by the PKW president.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u137	Are there any more questions? Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to extend this question, which Senator Rybicki has just asked, on the issue of the opinion of the Venice Commission, which even states that the changes are serious. I quote: It is not possible to introduce one year before the elections. I'll tell you exactly what that record sounded like. The basic elements of electoral law, in particular the electoral system itself, the compositions of electoral committees and the boundaries of electoral districts should not be subject to changes at least 1 year before the elections or should be enshrined in a constitution or legislation of a rank higher than universal law. Mr. Senator, aren't you worried... Because yesterday, however, there was talk of shifting the boundaries of the electoral districts, at least some of them. This also applies to my constituency, my voivodship, the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. However, is there no concern that the outcome of the election may possibly be undermined? Because, as I say, there are elections for Europarlia in May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u139	Mrs. Senator, as a participant in yesterday's session, I felt this way, and as rapporteur, Today I report on them that there is no such concern that, however, during the discussion, these doubts were resolved. I am not now able to recreate so precisely the moment at which the patron, the legislator, as if he had taken the side of the representative of the National Election Office, said that he really did not fully understand the intention of the legislator here and that he had withdrawn his reservations. In fact, in the legislative opinion, it was such a unique reservation for this amendment. [[May I? Well, I'll ask you one more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u140	Complementive? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u141	Yeah, just supplemental. Mr. Senator, it was a little different. The legislator did not refer directly to those provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, but he said that Mr Hermelinski quoted directly There are no comments. But I realized that... [[This is polemics, Senator. Ask me a question.]] ...this only applies to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal that he did not refer to the Venice Commission. [[I mean me more, Senator... sorry, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u142	That wasn't really a question. [[Can I answer that so I can be understood?]] Please, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u143	Senator, I was talking more about the fact that the legislator's reservations that we're making some kind of change here in the electoral districts... that there's been a misunderstanding here. And that was such a serious charge that we are entering this restricted period of silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u144	Now you're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u145	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for both senators of the rapporteurs. I have a question about what was de facto already mentioned today, about some asymmetry. Mr. Senator, was there a speech on this subject and were there any answers to the question of why this limitation of passive electoral rights only applies to the mayor, the mayor and the president? Why it does not apply to candidates for e.g. municipal councillors, not applicable to district councillors, not much of it, not applicable to sejmic councillors, not applicable to marshals or to members of voivodship boards? And, little of that, it doesn't apply to senators either, it doesn't apply to Members, as has already been mentioned. So my question is: why does the legislator, the group of Members see the problem only in the case of the governor, the mayor and the president? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u146	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u147	This subject was discussed, but I do not recall such an unambiguous answer to this question. I can speak more for myself. There is such a reasoning that it is simply limited to executives in the local government, who make decisions individually, responds individually. That's how I can comment on it. Now, again, to this earlier discussion about these two standards, I will say that this is undoubtedly a discussion of an axiological, philosophical nature. I firmly continue to defend this view that in the Polish political culture, still quite fresh and unbridled, rather we should raise, as I believe, moral standards, ethical requirements when it comes to participation in political life rather than lowering them. I think we're still so far from getting involved in the public life of citizens that they're so well-informed that they can make their own opinions about whether they want to vote for someone who's convicted or convicted. And I wouldn't want us to trivialize this change of laws, because, although we can imagine a situation like this, someone isn't going to run because he's been sentenced to a fine, but we're still moving in the area of conviction for a crime, so it's not a small thing. Well, that's what happens sometimes in our fairly liberal criminal law, that criminal crimes are not severely punished, but that doesn't mean that, I would say, invalidates the weight of the act they committed. Therefore, I would be here... I think it's a little bit of a clever manipulation to quote these fines, because, as I say, it doesn't invalidate at all, it doesn't reduce the weight of those judgments that might be on potential candidates. [[Mr. Marshal, excuse me, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u148	Does the senator have a supplementary question or a new question for the second senator? [[Complementary. Just a little bit.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u149	I agree, Mr. Senator, absolutely... You're referring to axiology. We're in agreement here. I'm asking you why we're limiting... You say it's a one-man executive, but please note that the marshal is also the head of the unit, even though the organ is collegial. I'm thinking about the voivodship board. You're talking about axiology, you're talking about raising standards. My question is why only the mayor, the mayor, the president we choose... Why not councilmen? After all, this is an organ that is a local law. I'm not talking about senators or MPs anymore, especially since we senators are elected directly. In my view, these changes should also apply to us. If we want to be the law... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. ...and impose high standards, standards for a potential mayor, mayor, president, then perhaps we should set a good example and start with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u150	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as I recall, It is clear here that the electoral code, I believe, is not the only law that governs the liability of local workers. It would therefore be necessary to look at other provisions that regulate these issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u152	Is the senator also to the second rapporteur... [[Similarly, the same questions.]] Yes. Thank you, Senator. Then I'll have Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u153	I'm short. I have shown in the justification of the minority's motion that this law is not consistent, that it deals with some issues, even if these committees do, we withdraw from the double... But we leave it in the local government. Right? The same goes for this situation. We cannot change the constitution, although, as I said, I believe that this change to the extent it is, is not accepted by most constitutionalists, but is in the constitution, after all there has been a change... If so, the same requirement should also apply to others. I'm sure it's not taller, we don't want shorter, so at least it's the same. Yes? That's what I think. It's supposed to be about councillors, and... the local workers' bill isn't about choice, it's about function. Right? [[Now the question is...]] Therefore, in my opinion, these laws should be compatible, and they were not. And that's why it's happening.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u154	You're asking Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u155	I have a question for both senators of the rapporteurs. There has already been discussion about the deadline for amending the Code. The justification for such a mode of making these changes was that the changes made to the Code are not important in the elections. If we were to accept such an argument, we would be in such a situation that the law itself is implemented in an exceptional manner, without respecting the relevant deadlines. And this mode is once again justified by the important reasons why this electoral code is being adopted. Don't you senators see a discrepancy between these two positions? On the one hand, the law does not make significant changes to electoral law, on the other hand, it is introduced in an exceptional manner for reasons relevant to Polish law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u156	Mr. Senator, I might surprise you, but I'll tell you, these are two different issues. One issue is the requirements of the Rules of Procedure and the special circumstances, and another issue... Because it's not always a special circumstance, so to speak, the weight of change. I always emphasize that. I recognize authority. And to me, it is an authority of the word or opinion of the President of the State Election Commission, which was drafted yesterday by the current secretary. She made it clear that she quoted Mr Hermelinski's statement, who said that these were not important changes. So... Otherwise, I'd ask that question. It means you can do it at any time. That's the argument. This argument, which Mr Hermelinski said, shows that there must not be any immediate urgency, that these are not such important issues that need to be settled in time. And you could actually do it in a normal way, in accordance with procedure, in time... And I think you could also improve quality. Because, as we can see, we have some sort of inconsistencies in this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u157	He's the second rapporteur. Mr. Senator Bang. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. It is not so simple to answer this question, because indeed this contradiction somehow appeared there yesterday during the committee's deliberations. Nevertheless... Well, I think it just so happened that we're going to be doing this together, there's a session of the Sejm and the Senate, and the next Senate meeting will be in a few weeks. The fact that these changes are not important enough for them to be introduced... Well, that doesn't mean that we should wait for them to be introduced, because it would certainly be better for the authorities that have to bring the next elections into line with these new rules if they were adopted sooner than slower. Well, that's the only way I can answer that question. I don't think I can say anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u159	Thank you. You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u160	Well, then maybe I'll ask the Senator rapporteur, Senator Pop, too. Of course, with regard to these particular circumstances and important changes, we have just heard here... Well, I'm sure we won't agree on that. Because if there are special circumstances, then change is important. And vice versa. Senator, the electoral code is such a special law, it requires special care, it should be consulted. And my question, as there is no rapporteur, is why this law If it was to be, if a former group of Members was prepared so late. After all, the term of elections to the European Parliament has been known for a long time, which is on 26 May. So there was a... If there was any proposal for a statutory change, it could have been done before. I would ask this question to the rapporteur, but there is no rapporteur, so maybe you can tell me why we need to work at such an extraordinarily pace, why we need to take advantage of some particular circumstances, as if we could not do it normally, consult, talk. After all, this also applies to local authorities, so all this should be done in good time. Every time we change our ordination, we do it all too late, contrary to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which refers to six months. So, Mr. Senator, why? Why are you so late?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u161	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I don't agree with you here. We are not doing this contrary to the Court's judgment. I think I've tried three times to justify that we're not doing this in accordance with the recommendations of the Constitutional Court. The only contradiction is that the prints were actually delivered too late and we had to vote in committee yesterday. It was the only problem of a regulatory nature, but not of a constitutional nature. Well, as to why the bill was left at such a time and not at any other time, in such a way and not otherwise adopted in the Sejm, you will forgive me, but I am unable to answer this question as a senator. It would also be an abuse on my part.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u163	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. I therefore refer again to the head of the National Election Office, Minister Magdalena Pietrzak. Would you like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I can only comment on a few comments that were raised during the discussion to clarify certain points. With regard to this inaccuracy, which is in the Local Workers Act and in the Election Code Act, the inaccuracies concerning the criminality of the candidate for a governor, mayor or president, this issue has indeed been raised several times by the State Election Commission, which called for the legislator to eliminate these inconsistencies in the legislation. This inconsistency actually arose when the electoral code was adopted as it stands. The previous rules were consistent, because the Local Staff Act provided for the same conditions for people who included the function of president, uncle or mayor, as well as for candidates. This inconsistencies arose after the amendment of the rules, following the introduction of the current electoral code. How this inconsistency will be resolved depends on the will of the legislator. As regards the members of the management boards of the counties and members of the management boards of the voivodships, it regulates, as has been said, the law on local staff. Before taking up these functions, the question of criminality must be resolved. These people can't be convicted of crimes at all. As regards the request for minimum compositions of committees, this amendment, which has been tabled as it stands, was accepted by the State Election Commission. In our view, it is appropriate that these five-member minimum posts should be provided for each committee regardless of the number of voters involved in the circuit and the statutory composition of the committee concerned. This is due to our experience with previous elections when we had a problem with starting tasks by territorial committees that had 9-person warehouses. This was not the minimum for which the committee could work, and there were problems with setting up such a committee according to the electoral calendar. So this is some kind of security for the Commissioner, who, thanks to the subsequent changes that this amending law provides for, will have the opportunity to supplement the committees, already during the work, for further persons, of course, if such persons apply, they agree. As for the request to change the deadline for reporting committee members from 30 days to 45 days, it is probably due to a misunderstanding, because 45 days is an earlier deadline. We quickly counted that, in the present form, according to the provisions of the Act, members of the committee could be notified until 26 April. On the other hand, 45 days would have passed on April 11, two weeks earlier. The committees would then have a lot less time to submit these candidates, so that we think that... Well, it's still beneficial for the committees that they have to acquire, and yet we've seen how difficult it was for them to find candidates.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u165	Thank you, Minister. Are there any questions? Now you can ask questions from a place that lasts no more than a minute. Minister, stay here for a while, 'cause maybe they'll be here to ask you a question. You can ask questions. Senator Rybicki, this is Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u166	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about your opinion on the debate in the Sejm, but also on the issue of non-constitutionality in the Senate. According to those referring to the Constitutional Court's judgment, it is necessary to maintain the legislative silence six months before the first election. What's your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u167	As I said, Mr President was unfortunately unable to attend and apologize for this, but he attended the session of the Parliament committee which was working on the bill and then presented his position. He said it wasn't a major change. The major changes referred to in the Constitutional Court's judgment are those which affect the outcome of the elections, on the voter who votes. As an example were the electoral thresholds mentioned, the electoral districts. These are such major changes that affect the entire electoral system. And these don't affect the outcome of the election, the way of counting, these are actually technical changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u168	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u169	Thank you very much. Ma'am, I recall our discussion here during the previous debate on the revision of this bill. We signaled, among other things, that these two committees... Well, now we're pulling them out in part, they're staying in the local... We have signaled many, many other changes, some things are being corrected at the moment. And I have such a question for you by the way, because we also had doubts about this cross, X, these two intersecting lines... Is there anything you can tell us about the conclusions of these local elections, or was it a problem when it comes to voting, whether there were doubts as to whether the committees were having problems? Because I see that there are no proposals in the changes, Members have not proposed to go back to what was. The question is whether, let's say, it doesn't hinder elections, this way of marking, describing this sign as 2 intersecting lines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u170	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u171	As far as the opinion of the State Election Commission is concerned, the State Election Commission does not change its opinion and would like to go back to the previous definition of X and the so-called X and the so-called X. The sanctity of the grate. But after examining the choices that have taken place, it must be said that we did not have such signals that there would be problems. We have information that it was really an election with the lowest number of votes out of all elections after 1989. It's probably translated into this, too. We also received information from the Batory Foundation, which had representatives throughout the country, in such a group of representative municipalities, and they also claimed that if there were any problems, they were not due to this change of rules. But in conclusion, of course, they also called for a return to the previous definition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u172	The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u173	I have a question for you. The possibility of filing a complaint to the court for the decision of the electoral authorities to refuse to register a list of candidates has been introduced here, and this is very good because it is in line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Senate has repeatedly asked for this. However, this is limited to national elections in the amendment. Tell me what the reason is. Because differences of opinion between the electoral authority and the electoral committee as to the number or reliability of signatures in the local elections will remain beyond judicial control. In practice, this seems to mean depriving the right to court against the arbitrary decision taken by the electoral commission. Would you mind... You probably know the case because it was in the opinion of our Legal Office. Tell me why it was introduced. About the national elections - Yes, but as for the local government, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u174	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u175	I find it difficult to say why this has not been introduced. That's actually a question for applicants. Indeed, it would be appropriate for all elections to be uniform. There was a discussion on this at the session of the Sejm Committee, which was discussed by the Members. The subject is open, so you can get back to it. We even made proposals back then. If we get another courthouse in the local elections, it's actually gonna be the third one. Because we have a municipal committee, a commissioner, a State Election Commission, and the Supreme Court would have come to that. That was the offer. This is not justified, especially since the deadlines are very short and could affect the electoral calendar. The proposal of the State Election Commission, which had already been discussed, was that instead of the State Election Commission, committees could forward their complaints immediately to the court, they could direct themselves directly there with doubts. If there was one less instance, it would be safer for the electoral calendar. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u176	Mr. Senator Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am returning to an issue that I have not been able to deal precisely with as rapporteur, namely the polemics with the Legislative Office concerning the alleged modification in the area of electoral districts. How exactly would you explain this doubt?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u178	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u179	This was somewhat due to the lack of understanding of the issue by the Legislative Office. We've cleared it up. This amendment actually makes it only now that there is consistency in the rules, because of the article. 15 §4 of the Act currently in force states that the voting circuits referred to in §1.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is part of the constituency of the capital city of Warsaw that belongs to the district of Śródmieście. As far as the districts are concerned, we haven't changed anything at all, but we have shortened the way, because such protocols would have to end up in the district commission in Warsaw. It is only now that we have the consistency of the rules, after this amendment has been introduced.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u180	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. Thank you, ma'am. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Comfort will be the first to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After Senator Ziientarski's report, we could actually conclude, say that the king is naked, and not deepen the analysis of this project, but I will be tempted to do so. Senator Zientarski talked about the violation of the rules of procedure, about the fact that the project, which, as it is emphasized, is not a very important project, is being dealt with in this Chamber once again in one way rather than another. Senator Pop-Pop replied, saying that it's actually no pity that something is getting done faster, not slower. There's a text that I really like, a text from my favorite childhood movie Star Wars when one of the Jedi says you're wandering, young padding. And if it wasn't for deep respect for the senator, I'd probably turn to him that way. Mr. Senator, it's not like that. It's not that simple. Because how quickly we dealt with many cases in this Senate and with what effect, he showed us at least the Supreme Court and seven times you had to correct the same matter. Since there is a provision in the Constitution regarding who has passive electoral rights, I would at least expect a reflection, not that we don't want to, but that we didn't have time for it again. I would like to go back to the history of creating this constitution. I mean, in the transcripts, just like today... I will return to the very good report of Senator Ziientarski again. After all, the transcripts reflect the discussion about why a solution giving this margin of freedom was adopted. Here it is, Mr. Senator, the answer to the question of why it doesn't mean good at all. The point is, we can't, we don't have the time to go and to read, to put on the table those arguments that then led to this, not another regulation. It wasn't a coincidence, our founding fathers overworked... Of course, one can say that this constitution is better, worse, but behind it there was a thought, and I would at least like to be able to appeal to it. And there's another argument for not doing it in such a hurry. Well, when we read the opinion on the bill that we have here, we can see that, from the perspective of the recent history of the legislative process, a significant part of the changes in question is, firstly, the renewal of the changes adopted by the Sejm and the Senate in July 2018, which did not come into force because of the veto of the President of the Republic of Poland. So we're talking about the fact that most people have already tripped over the President's leg once, which, after all, is in favour of the governing camp, which means that a bubble has already been created once, which you vetoed the President. Secondly, part of the changes is the reversal of the amendments introduced by the Act of January 2018. Is that the basis for serious talk here that we have enough information to make these decisions? Will it be so again that the majority will make an important decision, and in three months' time your colleague, Mr. Senator, will argue with a great deal of faith in what he is saying that this must be changed. Well, since we're doing this, that's a huge risk. Is it worth trying to tighten up the rules in itself? No, because, as we said before and as it sounded at the committee meeting and as the Senator Zientarski rightly pointed out, there are situations that can actually lead to a judgment, but this judgment in the social sense does not have to be a judgment eliminating public life. I can imagine that in the heat of political discussion, someone will insult the president. Well, this is a political dispute. In my opinion, it should be eliminated at all. Punishment may remain, but it's a prerogative to take passive electoral rights... I don't think it should be. The insulting of a public servant is also being prosecuted by a public prosecution. We must have any reflection, because sooner or later the card will turn around. I promise you something, Senator. If this card turns around and there's going to be a minister from the current opposition instead of Minister Ziobra, I promise you that I'll speak here as I speak right now. Because I'm not saying this because I'm on the other side of a political dispute, but there are just some values that need to be respected in order not to promote democracy. At least give us a moment to think about it. And one last thing. Well, there is one thing I think is quite serious, and it was rejected in the Seym. It is a question of the possibility for electoral representatives to appoint candidates for the regional electoral committees and to authorise individuals. The aim is to ensure that a representative can be appointed to the Regional Election Commission by the coalitions of political parties that have not run in recent elections. Well, it should be, if at least one of the parties meets the condition that she ran in the last election. Without this amendment, it will eliminate certain actors and deprive them of their absolutely constitutional right to be represented during the elections. That is the amendment I hereby make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u182	Thank you, Senator. Senator Zdrojewska has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to something, to remind you that, however, according to our Legislative Office, we have doubts as to whether the change in voting on ships is a major change or not. You say no, but when you read it exactly and refer to what the Constitutional Tribunal said and what the Venice Commission said... Well, there's no distinction between small changes and thicker changes. There it is said that in the event of a change of electoral districts change is acceptable, but it should enter into force with the corresponding vacatio legis. Yeah, that's what I'm paying attention to. If we had a legal system in Poland, I would pay even more attention to it, because it would probably be rejected by the Constitutional Tribunal or the President would not have signed it. I think you gentlemen are sitting so calm because the president is signing everything, and the Court isn't practically there either. So that the only authority that can draw attention to what is happening in the law, unfortunately, is our House, is us here in the Senate. But unfortunately, it's a cry in the wilderness, I'd say. This issue, I believe, is technical. I don't think anything's gonna happen here. It's a legal dispute. Most of the changes that are made here are very good, technical changes. They improve what we didn't do before, working again in a hurry It's over this bill. That is why we are now working again on this amendment in a hurry, so that in a moment, as you said, Senator or my second colleague, we will come back and correct what we have not done again. But in my opinion, these technical changes, which make things easier here, were used by politicians to introduce something we call "lex Zdanowska." And as a result of the discussion that has developed, it has partially withdrawn from it, and it has partially been left behind. So now it's said that it doesn't actually concern Mrs. Zdanowska, because she's gonna have a statute of limitations, so that it's all... Then what is it for? We could not ask such a question because there was no applicant, there were no people who prepared the amendment, and they could not answer us. We do not know how many such cases there are in Poland, whether there have been some exceptional violations of the law in the case of those who have been convicted, for example, I do not know, for some fine or something like that, and then it turned out that they are very bad mayors or something, and that this law needs to be changed immediately, because crime in local governments has increased terribly as a result of the operation of something like this. Well, of course we're not dealing with anything like that, it's purely political. But it doesn't apply to Mrs. Zdanowska anymore, but it only applies to people like... It can apply to people like. Władysław Frasyniuk, whose case is currently in court and which can be tried in a very simple way to eliminate from political life. And I draw your attention to the fact that this is... And that's why I think It's for a scandalous novel, it's just scandalous. Because in the current system that we have, you can very easily, in a simple way, with the help of, I don't know, some tax office or some other office, with the help of 2 servants to eliminate someone from public life. You can e.g. to say that this person has violated the bodily integrity of 2 people, there will be 2 witnesses. You can do it. A political opponent can be eliminated in a very simple way. And once again, if we were living in a law-abiding country, I'd think, "You can appeal somewhere, something like that." But we're getting tighter and tighter, I mean. In fact, only the courts have remained independent, and so de facto the citizen has no place to appeal. So that I think... I will certainly vote against, even though there are very good changes in this bill. But I think that this point, which introduces additional requirements for candidacy, really means that political opponents can be eliminated in a very simple way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u184	You have the voice of Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I won't talk long. I would like to talk about two points. The first point is: I regret that we are making further changes and Sorry about the colloquialism. We're digging through the electoral code in the election year. This government majority has been in charge since 2015, and if she wanted to make a change like this, she had three years to do it. Doing this in an election year is simply violating, in my opinion, a good custom. That's line one. Line two. I would like to say this in the spirit of what you said to Senator Pociej: I was asked by the authorities of my club, PSL-UED, to repeat a certain amendment which was tabled in the Sejm and which, to say the same, at first had a certain favour of Law and Justice. I don't know what happened next, I can only presume, but she was rejected. She's concerned that the candidates for the members of the regional electoral committees and the district electoral committees should have... As I understand it, there is a modification to this amendment that you have made to Senator Pociej, because this change that I am reporting and which I have already tabled is that he has the right to do this coalition of political parties, of which at least one of them fulfils the condition mentioned earlier, namely this start of candidates from her letters in previous elections. I understand that Senator Pociej thinks that there should be no record at all, that everyone has the right to report it, regardless of whether he took off or not. I'm reporting this because, as I say, the PiS's consent was in the Sejm, but for strange reasons, this consent has been withdrawn. I can say yes... 'Cause here's Senator Pociej talking about this. That's how I figured it out. Somehow trying to close the system, let's call it work. I agree, this is an attempt to close the system. But I think there's one more thing here. It is a small attempt to threaten with the finger of its own coalitionists from the groups of the Agreement and Solidarna Polska. That's how I read it. If that's not the case, I'm counting on it. I'm not gonna hide it. In the interest of the club PSL-UED, you will support this amendment. She's already complex. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u186	Thank you, Senator. You've got a voice, Senator Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I felt obliged to speak because of Senator Pociej, who, as a matter of fact, directed them directly to me. Because he used the terminology of Star Wars, I'll return the favor. Sometimes, as Counselor, the senator is so direct to me, I see him as a senator from Star Wars, Senator Palpatine, later a great emperor who says you can't win, Luke, with a dark side, don't think about it. Seriously, I'd like to correct a few things. First of all, it's about the wording that Senator Zdrojewska used, that you're gonna sign everything anyway. It is precisely the President who does not sign everything, and that is why the current legislative haste you are accusing us of, because a package of changes that we are now making was also included in this bill, which you have vetoed. He vetoed it for one particular reason, because he did not like the issue of changes in the ordination of the European Parliament, but at that moment the whole law fell, so we had to return to these solutions. So this is some sort of partial justification for this legislative rush. Second thing. Once again, I would like to clarify and stress that this only doubt, the complaint of the Legislative Office against our amendment, was simply due to a misunderstanding, a misunderstanding of the substance of this amendment, which in fact changes a certain procedure, and in terms of the material meaning of nothing. The new one doesn't bring. And then there's number three. I've talked about this a few times before, but I'll get back to that. Senator Pociej was the one who talked about it. That is the kind of legal rigour that we are being accused of, that we are introducing regulations that can eliminate some people from public life. However, I believe that both the casus of President Zdanowska and other cases that occur in Poland, e.g. the fact that he is chosen to be the uncle of the man who is in custody and the charges against whom are so serious that he has not even made a vow yet, so it is not known whether this choice will be effective, and the various other situations which are connected with a certain moral level of people who perform public functions in Poland, but which make us to overwhelm rather than underwhelm the standards. Here I would like to stress this axiological thought that the Polish democratic system is still so imperfect that we should work out some good customs through legislation. Sometimes that's how it happens. Right? It is not only the custom that affects the law, but also the law that shapes a certain custom, especially a political one. So I consider this charge of this increased standard in the local elections to be missed. It will be good for us to raise legal standards in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u188	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska has a voice. The second performance is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u189	Thank you very much. I'm gonna make the amendment I mentioned, and this is the only place I have to make one correction. I'm not gonna talk anymore... We will stick to our sentence, Senator, as to the state of the rule of law and the intention to introduce this law, or at least some of it. I would like to address, speak on another matter and address my words to the marshal. Mr. Marshal, once again, we have such a situation that those who are applicants for the Seym Law do not come to the committee meeting, do not come to the Senate meeting. It is somehow included in documents, these people are invited, we make such requests... I'd either suggest that or cross it out at all, because it's a complete fiction. I don't recall the last time a Member came here to answer any questions. Or talk to Marshal Kuchciński and ask him, however, to urge Members to take their stand here and answer questions. I think it's pretty disrespectful, especially since I'm paying attention to it. There are also our senate projects in the Sejm and people like Senator Augustine, who recently reported something, whether Senator Wach on another bill or on amendments... We just come in there and we're there. I think it's disrespectful of the Senate. I draw attention to this and to the hands of the marshal, because only through contact between the marshal and the Marshal of the Sejm can this matter be dealt with... So let's either eliminate this fiction if they're not coming, then let's cross it out, let's not come, let's not invite them, or let's do something to make it happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u190	Thank you. I will answer immediately, Senator, that as for the proposals that you are proposing, it would be necessary to make a formal statement on what legal provisions should be amended: either by regulation or by law... [[Maybe it's okay.]] In this way, such a request should be made. [[Maybe talking's enough. Thank you.]] Thank you. The motion has been written down. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. You have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Zientarski, Senator Pociej and Senator Zdrojewska. The discussion is closed. Would a representative of the National Election Office like to respond to the requests submitted? I address the Minister, the head of the National Election Office. Would the Minister like to comment on the proposals made during the discussion? He doesn't volunteer. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been tabled... The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Legislative Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of the land. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1084, and the report of the Committee in print No 1084 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u191	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The joint committees of infrastructure and local government and regional policy discussed yesterday the Senate initiative law, which was discussed at the seventy-seventh meeting of the Sejm. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You should mark... [[I'm sorry. I ask you to keep your conversations quiet because we do not hear your rapporteur.]] It should be noted that the initiative of the Senate Sejm, which was discussing the draft, introduced amendments which, in the opinion of the legislator, are far-reaching and very much influenced the merits of the legal solutions. At the meeting of the committee there was a representative of the government in the person of Minister Arthur Sobonia, who is also present today, who in the first part outlined the various problems that will be solved in the framework of the present law. The Minister was then asked questions. The first part of the question I would call substantive... [[I'm sorry again. I'm asking you to transfer the calls to the cocksuckers. Mr. Senator, please.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The first part of the questions were substantive questions. Next, a representative of the Polish government, the unification of Polish local governments, spoke at the meeting of the joint committee. I don't know if I said the name right. He made his criticisms about the non-compliance of the proposed law, which is his opinion. With a constitution. Then the discussion took on character, I would say, more emotional than substantive. However, the joint committees supported the bill by a majority and propose that the High House adopt it without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u192	The senator's done. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u193	Thank you. I have a question for you. Is there any explanatory procedure attached to this bill? There are a lot of questions from people living in different buildings, i.e. belonging to the city's office or awaiting an explanation of successions. The question is this. What rights do residents have in the building, which is managed by the local government, at the time when claims are made to the building as such? How are they supposed to handle property transformations? Who's gonna talk to them? What are their rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u194	Dear Senator, Mr. Marshal! There was no mention of this at the committee meeting, no indication of this type of document. We have a minister with us who was also at the committee meeting. I think he's gonna give a comprehensive answer to that question. I also know that he is conducting a very broad media campaign, explaining particular difficult issues. These are very difficult technical issues in the field of construction, and above all the laws that are systematically changed. In these records, we meet social expectations. Hence the senate initiative. I would kindly ask you to redirect this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u195	You're asking Senator Florek a question. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I would like to add more.]] The senator wants to make up for it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u196	I would like to ask if there are regulations for this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u198	These regulations were not presented at the committee meeting. In fact, this bill contains... I'm looking at the Minister now. I'm going to eat a little bit, Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: No, there was no...]] I mean otherwise: at the committee meeting it was certainly not mentioned and it was not presented, it was not among the documents that were provided to us. That's for sure. Nor did I find any indication in the opinion, nor did the legislator present at the stage of the committee's work show their presence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u199	Did the senator finish the questions? Yes. Now you're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u200	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator! You're an experienced senator. You mentioned it was a proposal from the Senate. The law by the resolution came out of the Senate to the Sejm, the Sejm considered this project of ours and this draft in the form of a bill returned to the Senate. I'd like to ask, Senator... Because in general this law concerns a change in 2 laws, i.e. the Real Estate Management Act and the Law on the conversion of the perpetual right of use. And there's this art. 1 and Article 1 2. Changes which may be made by the Sejm or the Senate, if a law comes to them, are defined, must concern the case in question. I'm just gonna give you an article. One was in the bill that came out of the Senate. It concerned an increase in the annual fee I'm talking about the Real Estate Act. That couldn't exceed... and there was a reference to the price of the apartment, etc. At the meeting, we made it clear that this is just nonsense, and it certainly won't go away in the Seym. And from the Sejm, this art came back. 1, which also concerns the Real Estate Management Act. But what does it involve? Point 3b on the perpetual use charge for garages is added, which will not be 3% and 1%. I don't really see any consistency here. And there's an art. 2. Well, I'm not gonna help you. But can you show that between this law that came out of the Senate and the law that came from the Sejm, there is any consistency, apart from the fact that it really is the consistency of the last articles, saying that the law enters into force on the day following the day of the announcement, because here in one and the other law is the same? Can you indicate any other common element in this bill and in that law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u201	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u202	I agree with the senator. After all, you spoke to the senator, specifically the senator, at the committee meeting, and I agree that this was the subject of a lively discussion at the committee meeting, but that there was no discussion at the committee meeting indicating differences and they were not indicated at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u203	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the senator? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the Senate. Would a government representative, Mr Artur Soboń, present at the meeting, like to speak on this matter? Please, Minister, to the bleacher.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! These are 4 changes, social changes expected and it is worth one sentence of each of these changes to say. The first is indeed a change in the farm property law, i.e. a change in the rate for perpetual use or a conversion fee, if in the case of these garages there is a transformation from perpetual use to ownership, from 3% to 1%. We believe that there is no justification for this higher rate. If the garage is connected to our apartment and we're not doing business there, this rate should be uniform. This is also the case law and the opinion of the Ombudsman. So there seems to be a consensus in this regard. Secondly, giving the statutory amount of the allowance for the conversion of perpetual use into property in the case of the State Treasury land, while at the same time giving statutory freedom to local governments, we necessarily make these rates different. And where the local government has given a higher bonus rate than the one that applies on the State Treasury land, the voivode by order will always equal this rate to the one that the local government has given but only in a situation where the local government has given a higher bonus rate I'm gonna say it again. It is more than the statutory rate of the State Treasury. We're gonna specify and that's the third change. It is clear that the provisions on garages and parking spaces are applicable in respect of discounts. These discounts clearly also include garages and parking spaces. In the case of State Treasury land, they are covered by a statutory bonus. In the case of local land, according to the logic of the whole structure that is in force, local authorities may also grant such discounts. And finally, the last change, or redemption. It is about situations where the constitutional principle of equality is violated. Well, there were cities... In one of them, you might say, we're here right now. This town was doing it on the biggest scale. These pathologies related to the updating of fees are probably known to the senators. This is due to the fact that there have been situations in which someone was effectively given an increase in the previous year, and to a neighbour who lives, for example. in the same real estate, this increase was not effectively delivered. After 1 January, after the end of perpetual use, one would pay 9 times less, the other 9 times more. And, therefore, these proceedings in which... Well, such situations happened in Warsaw, these increases amounted to 900%. Thus, such situations are unacceptable in our view, and we therefore want to put an end to all the proceedings that are affected by this defect. It is all the proceedings in which there is an inequality of perpetual users, an inequality of citizens, and in which this inequality cannot be eliminated in any way. So this is the kind of procedure that we want to apply to by law. These are the four shifts. Thank you very much to the Senate for taking this legislative initiative. Indeed, in the course of parliamentary work, the Parliament's work, these changes have been introduced, which are what Senator Florek said. I don't want the obvious here... Well, I understand that this is simply a statement of fact, but they go exactly in that direction, which the senators have determined with these changes, and they respond precisely to the needs which they report, probably also to you, residents, especially Warsaw or Krakow, where this situation was the most socially disadvantaged. And as far as Senator Boris-Damięcka's question is concerned, my answer is that this bill has no effect on the ongoing proceedings. In the case of Warsaw land, in the case of decree-makers, this is even a better situation, because at the time of the termination of this procedure it is the property, not the perpetual use. The Act is neutral from the point of view of pending proceedings. They're just rolling around, and this bill doesn't regulate it. And as for the question of whether... If we're dealing with a situation where he's in, for example, cooperative ownership rights, and the premises are unseparated, then the cooperative is transformed. Thus, each conversion is made by the person who was the perpetual user as of January 1, 2019. I understand that if there's a need for me to complete something, then I can do it, and they answer questions. Thank you so much right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u205	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Klein came forward with a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Minister has accepted at this stage the amendment which I tabled to the Act on the conversion of perpetual use rights into property. The idea was that the voivode should, by order of order, compare these charges with what the commune council adopted. Well, this is actually where the amendment I tabled was written. The Senate then rejected this amendment, perhaps in favour of the Minister's suggestion, because the committees accepted it, but I am glad that there was a reflection and it was written here. But I'd like to ask you a question like that. I'm talking about transforming perpetual use into property rights in the case of homes that are residential homes, but... especially in tourist destinations, there are situations like this. Well, most of these houses are occupied with the economic activity of renting guest rooms during the summer. The residents pay for perpetual use, have 1-percent stakes, etc. These buildings are for residential purposes. Will such houses be... Did this change take place by law on 1 January?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u207	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u208	The Act clearly defines that the land is built with single-family or multi-family residential buildings In addition to economic buildings, garages and other construction sites or construction equipment for the proper and rational use of residential buildings In which at least half of the premises are residential premises. So if this is a residential building, not a hotel, then yes. But if this is a hotel, of course not. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u209	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u210	Is it, of course, simple or does it seem that it's a simple statement, but is it... So it's just... This is the case: if there is a house, the majority of which is intended for economic purposes or the rent of guest rooms even throughout the year, then of course this property is also converted, this property is converted The right of perpetual use shall be transferred to the right of ownership. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Investment and Development Arthur Soboń: Mr. Senator, you probably mean some specific situation...]] No, it's just common, that's the case with most apartments in tourist destinations. I don't mean any particular case, nor am I... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Arthur Soboń: No... If this is a residential place, it's changing...]] The apartment, I mean... How so? Well, that's not exactly... I've been discussing with the legislator for a long time and we've been wondering how to settle this. 'Cause there's this kind of house in tourist towns... I live in a tourist resort, but I don't have a home like this, so it doesn't apply to my situation in any way. In the past, however, large houses were built there in residential areas, where owners live in 2 rooms and 10 rooms are rented. You pay a 1-percent fee and...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u211	Mr. Senator, let me ask you something. In the records of land and buildings this building is registered as...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u212	Well, he's probably... So it's important how it's recorded in the land register... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Yes, yes.]] It's not how it's actually used, it's how it's entered in the land register. Well, that's an important thing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u213	In my opinion, it should be used as it is written. But I don't want to take the role of the authority that settles it here. This is the role of the local government to determine whether to send a certificate of transformation or not. If this hypothetical man we're talking about has paid a one-percent stake, there's an apartment in the records, he'll be informed in the certificate that he's transformed and that's the basis... Then this conversion fee will be exactly the same as the perpetual usage fee. [[So the question of doing business here is irrelevant.]] No, as a rule not, because it is obvious that in the case of real estate, although the residential function is dominant, services are also provided or other commercial functions are performed, e.g. There are shops in the blocks, etc. And it doesn't exclude these properties from the transformation. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u214	Thank you. There's no more... Oh, there's a question. Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u215	I'd like to... Minister, I'm here... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Arthur Soboń: Yes, yes, I know where you are, Senator.]] I'd like to... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Ah, I have to watch. I see.]] I would like to ask you another question because I had several phone calls, specifically from the inhabitants of Warsaw. Is it true that information spread in the media that, in the context of the entry into force of the law on conversions, mortgage owners who paid annual tribute for perpetual use do not need to report and pay, but should wait for notification as in a relationship... Yes. So this press release is real, and you can...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u216	What's more, it's 12 months, so you have to wait calmly. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: So they don't have to suspect that then somebody tells them to pay interest or something because they didn't make the charge by March.]] Senator, I would answer that question as a matter of principle, it's true, but if anyone has, as you just said, a senator, any doubt as to whether this bill applies to him, it's better. That's what I'd advise. He would go and ask the local government if his apartment would change. But even if he pays for this perpetual use by March 31, and it's gone, it's included in the conversion fee, so there won't be any loss. It is better to avoid interest, of course, but 99% cases should not be done. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Even if the building as such is on the board of self-government?]] Yes, of course. The important thing is that this is an apartment building. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u217	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u218	Thank you. I want to make your life unintendedly difficult by asking you this... Well, this bill decides where the dog, where the otter, where the fish, where the fish, where the fish, which means it's obvious, good. But there are cases, as always in life, indirect. Namely, I ask why in this act, one or the previous one, something such as constructions on holiday grounds, which are residential, but which, for example, are not included. Because of the lack of these clothes, as your godfather calls it, I forgot his name. They are built in recreational areas. In general, they are still for this. I'm gonna add It is owned by the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u219	Everything? Thank you. Sure question...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u220	Exactly, Mr. Marshal, I'm not so sure that the question is quite clear... [[What kind of land?]] If I understand correctly, Here's where I'm gonna reserve it. It's... [[Recreational, not gardening?]] [[Yes, sir.]] Holiday parcels shall not be converted into this law. It's gonna be stage two. There are 2.5 million home users today. In the next phase of the system's disposal of perpetual use, all areas will be covered. In order to carry out this project in this shape, we had to choose one common feature of these buildings. And these are residential buildings. If these are residential buildings, it does not matter whether they were created in terms of building permit and planning binding, which is the basis of this building permit, on the basis of a development plan or on the basis of building conditions, it does not matter at all. If they're residential buildings, they're transforming, if they're holiday homes, they're not transforming. Well, let's cut to the chase.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u221	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u222	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to thank you for this information, which you have provided, that there will be a comprehensive transformation of perpetual use, but I would like to ask when a project will be prepared on this matter. Because, actually, I'd like to say, I'm very happy to hear that, because I wanted to ask you when we'd get the answers to those questions that were raised at the committee meeting on the occasion of work in December when we were working on this bill in the Senate. But it's possible that this answer will consummate your lack of answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u223	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u224	Thank you very much. If there are any deficiencies in the answers, then, of course, I apologize to the senator for that, we'll fill in the blanks. The answer to the question of total elimination of perpetual use as if it is not entirely dependent on me. 'Cause what's the big deal? And I want the Senate to know that. When you make that decision? Of course, except for the organisational dimension, because there are 2.5 million perpetual users, so many perpetual books and certificates, and it's not a small operation in itself, so it's worth breaking it down into stages. Because what kind of property is that if you're waiting for an entry in the book? So it's better to rationally break it down in time. They're on these other land, you can say, entrepreneurs in a pure form. Entrepreneurs appear on residential land, but in some ways by the way, but even here, in the case of this law, public aid rules are involved. In the event of the end of perpetual use, there is a direct threat of exceeding the permitted limits of public aid, which would mean in practice for such an undertaking as we would benefit from this law on the basis of the payment rules that we have proposed, for example. in the case of residential land, i.e. 20 annual fees... For the European Commission, and this is confirmed in our correspondence, perpetual use is much closer to lease than property. So if we're talking about secondary trading in perpetual use, then the public owner doesn't have any of it. We must have a guarantee from the Commission At this stage, we're here. The fact that there will not be such a situation that an entrepreneur who has paid for perpetual use as for property under Polish conditions will have a subsidy to the state aid granted. And that's the only problem. If we resolve this, there will, of course, remain issues, but there are already other legislative issues. The key point is that we would not want to put businesses in difficulty who would exceed the permitted limit on public aid because of the benefits of this law. [[Thank you very much...]] [[So when can this happen?]] I hope we can get started. It's in the second half of the year and then it's over. I hope that during this term we could prepare this project. However, as I said, if there is a notification from the Commission, that's great, and if the Commission says that... if we convince the Commission, because that's what we're going to want to convince that there's no public aid here, it's even better, and then maybe it'll be faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u225	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork. [[You're gonna make amends?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u226	There's gonna be adjustments, there's gonna be adjustments. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister concluded his speech very optimisticly, saying that it is real this year, i.e. further amendments following clarification of the issue of state aid. However, the financial consequences of the proposed changes must also be taken into account, especially for local government, because there are fees for perpetual use, consultation, etc. So that I admire the Minister's optimism and wish you success. But I'm sure... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u227	Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I'm sorry, Mr. and Mrs. Senator, for consultation, please, after this point, in the hallway. Consultation, Senators... [[But we hear you, Marshal, let them talk.]] ...in the hallway, after that point. The Minister won't escape us. There you go, Mr. Senator. Proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u228	Okay, thank you. Then I'll continue. So I hope that what the Minister said will happen in a short time... Well, there's a lot to agree on here, a lot to check out. That's what I'm talking about, which is perpetual use on local government land, so local governments... There is also a matter of compensation, etc. We've been talking about this for many, many years. We've managed to get something into the housing area. Well, it's a good thing that the real estate circuit. That's the 2.5 million. But I'm sure there's a big problem with the next one. I can only say that much optimism is on the part of the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the legislative process now. An example of how a legislative process should not be conducted, in the Seym or in the Senate, here we have a particular lesson. I'll remind you... I'll just look at the watch, okay, 43 already, okay. I will remind you of the history of this project. Print No. 1048 is the printing we discussed. I remember exactly this meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, and you voted without amendment. Then there was a meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, and you were in favour, too, without any amendments. And then what happened? Then it happened that there was a request at the meeting. Mr. Stanisławek, if I remember correctly. It is about sending this draft law back to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. It was a runway. What was that all about? Well, the point was that print no. 1048 was also supported by this committee, but then a legislative initiative was born, which of course was outside the matter. Well, it could be because there may also be an initiative unrelated to the matter of the bill. So that she was born at that time. What happened next? Fast pace, a few hours, and we have a draft of a new bill that you voted out and then went to the Sejm. We talked about the amendments, we reported them. The senator here has also tabled an amendment. What you've done now... The idea was to make it even so that there was no such situation that there was a higher discount on the ground of the local government. In this project, which we accepted at the time, there was a maximum of 60%. There were deadlines, years and so on. Those discounts were changing. The goal was to make it really... But you didn't accept it at the time. And there was a bill, a project that was made quickly. Well, you could say ♪ And so I said ♪ That it is a complete legal bub that it is impossible to pass, that in the Seym they will settle with it that there is no way. Why? I've got this bill right here, which we've been working on at the time. So quickly, I don't know, in two or three hours, you created this project. And that's where this project was about annual fees associated with premises, etc., which is completely unrelated... There were also comparisons of real estate prices, properties with different destinations, to average prices, because this real estate law concerned all properties, so of course... You knew it wouldn't work. Just like the rest of this... So, what happened next? Ladies and gentlemen, the project went to the Sejm and the Sejm committees took care of this project and the Sejm itself. And our project came back to us in the form of a Sejm bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I have both... the bill that came back from the Sejm has absolutely nothing to do with what we have passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of the Legislative Bureau... I will only read the last sentence:.At the seymical stage, the draft amendment was introduced, which had a very significant impact on the substance of the solutions contained in the draft. The legislator wrote it so gently, he didn't say that this bill had nothing to do with... Is that how you do it? Oh, no. We know very well that when the law comes to us from the Sejm, we can change something, but only in the scope of this law, these records. Yes? We can make changes, but we can't create a whole new piece of legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we have now? Well, we have a new bill. Like we said, it's a good thing it happened. There was a question of updating the fees, as the Minister mentioned here. It's a very broad topic, and I'm not going to develop it. The NIK checks on this issue were, showed what the issue with this update looked like, that annual fees should be updated, etc. It's cost-related. After all, both local governments and the State Treasury, i.e. the starosts, do not have that much money, do not update it often and hence such differences in the price of the perpetual use fees. If the fee has not been updated for some time, then it is the right procedure, which means you have to make a valuation of the property, and it also costs, you have to... Therefore, it does not always pay off, but it is worth doing these updates. Here we were a little surprised by this bill. Well, it would be good if local governments and the State Treasury could spend a little more money in advance to update their fees. Now we're saying, like these local governments. We do not mention the Treasury, but here the story is the same, what are these inequalities in fees as part of perpetual use. And they're going to be a percentage, because since we've blocked the possibility that these updates will be carried out... It is known that these fees and these discounts will vary. Some will benefit and others will lose. And there's a new bill that we're really looking forward to. First of all, if the government discount is more than 60% It's a voivode's decree... That's what I've been talking about. Just like we told you before, it's impossible that it has to be a statutory condition for all of this... The vampire can raise that bonus so there's no difference. What is the situation with discounts in Poland, this country is different. There's 98% in some local governments. , in other cases 60%, 40%, 80% And there aren't any others, it looks different. And the voivode will have to adapt to these fees, i.e. to do so, e.g. in Warsaw up to 98%. Because in Warsaw it was reduced to 60%, which is as in the case of the State Treasury, but thanks to the fact that it returned to 98%, that also the State Treasury must adapt to this and it will also be 98%. So now the local governments will decide what resolutions they will adopt, and the voivode will have to adapt and... So the division we were talking about here... The point is, it's not like they're like this. 2 properties side by side and in one there is such a bonus, in the other one. This has been levelled, and this, in my opinion, is right and well done. As for real estate with garages, this is a fundamental change, because taxation for perpetual use has been changed from 3% to 1%. This also applies to the increase. But the right thing to do is the garages, especially those connected to the apartments... I think we all think this is good. And at this point we could say that we are, so to speak, consistent in this, we think that this has been corrected well. But there's a further part in this bill. This concerns the deadline of 5 October 2018, i.e. we have the act backwards. It was about the ongoing procedures for updating perpetual use fees, if someone started the process after that date, so that it would be blocked, so that there would be no changes that would then affect the discounts as well... But, ladies and gentlemen, the case is clear, clear, the rules have said that by the end of the year you have to make an offer to increase your perpetual use. So that all of this has been regulated so far in the regulations and therefore going backwards, making the bill work backwards, returning to October 5 really does not make any sense. I therefore propose an amendment to delete, delete and delete the entire article. Four, which is exactly what this case is all about. It seems to me that then the charge that the bill is working backwards, and the fact is that it would work backwards, and it concerns local governments, it concerns the financial affairs of local governments, it could be pulled out and pulled out here, and it could be discussed for a long time... To close the case, my proposal is to delete the article. 4. I think it will then be possible to say that after these amendments, after what the Sejm has changed, after our proposal, which Senator Bierecki, I see is coming in. At the committee meeting, he made proposals that did not meet the approval of the Sejm... I think that after these changes, we all believe that this bill has a flaw, because there is no doubt that it is impossible to do so, that it is impossible to vote on a law other than that which came from the Sejm... [[Mr. Senator, if you'll excuse me, you're out of time.]] I'm almost done. There you go. The deletion of the article... and the change in the last provision that the bill comes into force... Well, the standard is 14 days, so my second amendment concerns the entry into force of the law after 14 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u229	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed... Oh, I inform you that you have made a legislative proposal in writing, Senator Florek. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? No. [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Council of Ministers and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 1082, and the committee report In print No 1082 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the committee's report. As regards the changes made by the Act, I would say that the amendment of the Act on the Council of Ministers introduces a legal basis enabling the President of the Council of Ministers to award special prizes to natural persons in particularly justified cases, including exceptional scientific, sporting or cultural achievements and the protection of national heritage, after consulting the competent minister, from the resources of the general budget of the State. As a consequence of this basic amendment, the Act provides for the exemption of the special personal income tax prize granted by the President of the Council of Ministers to amend the Personal Income Tax Act and the abolition of the obligation to include the income prize to determine the right to social assistance. The Act is to enter into force on the day following its publication. The Sejm passed a law at its seventy-seventh meeting on 31 January. He accepted the amendment concerning the date of entry into force of the Act Then they went back to the starting point. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this bill about? The general point is that so far none of the Presidents of the Council of Ministers have ever had the opportunity to award a special prize. [[The nethers have been admitted.]] Why did this bill even show up? Probably because the President of the Council of Ministers promised to award such awards. He's gone a little crazy. There is no relevant law and, therefore, this method we want to ensure that the President of the Council of Ministers actually has the opportunity to do so. Another important issue, which is in the law, is the financing of the company, is that it is to be financed from the general reserve. Nothing is specified in this Act, nor the award criteria, nor how many prizes will be, nor what amounts it will be. But in the general reserve, you all know, there is a lot of money, and so the Prime Minister will be able to use this reserve, depending on his needs, if, of course, the law enters into force. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, during the committee meeting, the Minister here, Senator Rotnicka and Senator Zientarski spoke. I was also speaking. Mr Waldemar Sługocki also made proposals. As a result of the discussion, amendments to the Act were tabled. A motion to reject the law in its entirety was also made. Senator Slugocki and I have made such a request. Amendments that have been tabled... One amendment concerned a delay in the date of entry into force. Okay, if it's necessary for the President of the Council of Ministers to award such special awards, he can do so from the next term of office, from 1 January next year. There won't be any doubt here. So far there has been no need, and nothing will happen if it doesn't happen for a few months. It was proposed to introduce this from 1 January next year. The other amendments were the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau. That was the third amendment. But in view of the fact that the most far-reaching conclusion, i.e. the motion to reject this law was adopted by the senators by 5 votes to 2. 5 senators voted against, 2 against Of course, the senators no longer voted on these other amendments. And in these three detailed comments from the Legislative Office, there was a matter of general reserve, there was a matter of appeal procedure, which is not there, and there was a matter of adding the award mentioned in the Council of Ministers Act to specify that such a reward is. Such amendments were tabled. And so... the outcome of the vote is clear. The Commission recommends that the Senate reject this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u231	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] I'd like to invite you to the podium because there are questions for you. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u232	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask what were the reasons for not taxing the Prime Minister's prizes since all other awards in the state are taxed. And whether the discussion did not raise the question of whether other representatives of public authority in Poland should be equipped as well. President, marshals in such an instrument to reward at the discretion of distinguished citizens, since... When it comes to State, Ministry or any other award, they are also an expression of appreciation, and not only the Prime Minister or the President are equipped with such a privilege. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u233	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u234	Yes, I forgot to say that at the committee meeting there was also a representative of the Polish Towns Association and it was he who raised this issue that it was an exceptional matter that these financial awards should not be taxed on income from individuals, so that they would not be included in these social benefits. So he also raised this issue, too, was very surprised, informed that for all other prizes there is always taxation, and this is an exception. But... Mr. Senator, well, we know the president has an opportunity, too. When it comes to awards, decorations and decorations in these exceptional situations... athletes also often show signs, we even know who he recently awarded. So there are possibilities. Well, there's a situation here that the Prime Minister also has the opportunity to... Because I told four ministers who are ministers. It may also award such special prizes. And there's no need... The Prime Minister may, of course, refer to the Minister and, together, grant such an award. But this is what it was all about, so it's called, that it's just the Prime Minister's reward. That's how it was justified at the committee meeting. Well, so far there's also a question... Because so far there hasn't been such a need, for all the years no one has raised this subject that this need is. Yeah, but apparently the Prime Minister thought he'd like to award such prizes as well. I'm sure there's a special period ahead of us, so... And there was therefore an amendment that I had tabled that if we wanted to introduce such a prize, we should, however, move this date to 1 January next year so that there are no subtexts and doubts about the award of such a prize.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u235	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u236	Senator rapporteur, have you been discussing such a matter, I would say, dissonance, that on the one hand you have many means of honoring the outstanding merits, I will tell you honestly, honorary: awards, medals, statuettes, diplomas... Here we are introducing something that is more important in the market economy: that you will not get the award, although you may, and you will get the money. Has there been a discussion about a taxi driver? Because there could be some discussion in this regard, that a prominent professional athlete was awarded a lot, and the defenders of borders, which is not here, or even democracy was awarded 100 PLN.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u237	Yes, Mr. Senator, there was a discussion about this, somehow these awards... Senator Rotnicka, as I recall... With regard to the criteria, how these prizes will be awarded, what rewards will be, what will be their value, who will award this prize... Well, there are no criteria here, there's nothing in this bill, there's only the discretion of the Prime Minister. So there are no rules, no criteria as to whether there's gonna be a committee, or if there's gonna be some quorum that's gonna be typing these people, what it's gonna look like. There's no record, it's supposed to be a discretionary award for the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u238	Senator Rotnicka. There you go. [[Excuse me, may I have a supplementary question...]] I've already voted for Senator Rotnicka. In a minute... [[I just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Hey, buddy Rulewski! I won't take much time because I attended this committee meeting. I just don't know, I don't remember if there's an amendment tabled. We also talked about the fact that if such a prize were to be awarded We don't know how high She's supposed to be in the firm's budget... [[President of the Council of Ministers.]] ...yes, the President of the Council of Ministers, not in this general reserve, because it's such a bottomless sack. The amount should be specified. In general, we requested that the Prime Minister should be able to award such a prize, but in agreement with the relevant ministers. These are his subordinates who could put money on a particular kind of reward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u240	As far as I recall, the Minister said that the 2019 budget has already been adopted and that there are no funds in this budget for this type of prize. Consequently, only the general reserve remains and if that law were to enter into force, only the general reserve could be used.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u241	Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u242	Was the issue of disclosure of these awards discussed? Is it gonna be such a discreet award, unknown opinions, which would cause, as we're about to see in the banking bill, even more discussion? Come on. Was it not considered that prizes, I would say, material could be in the form of a certain decoration? E.g. In the past, not only communists did it, a commemorative watch was given with dedication, for which one could boast, a statue. And a material prize It's, I'd say, something that is and isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u243	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u244	Right. Mr. Senator, this is a discretionary award, in view of how you will address the President of the Council of Ministers and propose that someone be awarded such a prize, the President of the Council of Ministers may either listen to you or not. [[Question: Will these prizes be public? Will it be published?]] What are they gonna be like? [[Will it be published that the President of the Council of Ministers awarded the person a prize of one or another?]] [[There's no such...]] Then the Minister will answer, because I don't recall... I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u245	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, don't you think that since there are resort awards... I understand the desire to appreciate and the presence of the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers, whoever it is, and to award prizes to outstanding people. There was a discussion here, we have a lot of doubts about who it will be and what criteria it will meet, etc. But shouldn't it be that it will be the President's award, but given at the request of the Minister responsible? The aim is to ensure that appropriate, competent grammes in individual resorts carry out a factual, real, substantive assessment of the specific achievements referred to in the Act. Because for the senator, the particular achievements may be different for me, and for someone else, for example. Senator Rulewski, another one. This is a very subjective assessment. So was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting yesterday? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u247	That's the kind of question that came up at this meeting. Of course, you can discuss different kinds of roads, how you can get to this award. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Council of Ministers Act. This is the whole bill. She fits on 1 page and the record is general. The other 2 articles concern tax matters. We said that, among other things. The Polish Towns Association believed that art. Strike out what does not apply. This bill is short and doesn't detail everything. Of course, you could do as the senator said, they could do, for example. to be selected by individual ministers from 4 ministries, or perhaps others, but this should all be recorded in the bill and regulated. There's no record of that. You make a proposal, Senator, and those who signed the project have not made such proposals.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u248	Senator Rybicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u249	Thank you, Senator. A well-written law provides for the effects of regulation, including in particular the financial consequences of the introduction of the new rules. Here we are clearly dealing with budgetary measures, i.e. the financial consequences will be. As I understand it, there's no amount in the explanatory memorandum. Is it? And if there isn't, how much money can we talk about? Have there ever been any value? The reference to the budget reserve is actually a reference to a bottomless bag. And you can really imagine that hundreds of thousands of people will receive some amount of money at the end of the current government. What kind of money are we talking about? Is there any way to measure this? Did this result in an assessment of the regulation?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u250	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u251	I don't have a seym project in front of me. The seym project should have the effects of regulation. There was no discussion at the committee meeting, so I would ask you to redirect the question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u252	Senator Shark. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask the question maybe not identical, but in that spirit. As far as I'm concerned, special pensions, where there's some kind of procedure... Why would you do that to the Prime Minister? This can be defined nicely, since this applies only to an undefined amount of money within the budgetary reserve. Well, there's a lot of money to be paid before the election. In fact, I don't understand why this bill was ever made. What's it for? Was there a case that forced those... It's a parliamentary bill. Yes? Or government? [[No. It's a law firm.]] Then I'm surprised. For the first time in a long time, the government has dealt with a bill instead of involving Members, and it is immediately from such a fat, apologetic... It gives the Prime Minister the power to spend an infinite amount of money. I ask briefly: what happened to make this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u254	Thank you. Senator, I think that the Minister who is present will be able to justify why the law has taken such an initiative, why this law is, why it is so short, why there are no criteria in it, etc. I think the Minister... This is actually a special reward. All the other awards that we know and are being awarded... There are always rules for allocating them, and in the case of this law, we do not know what the criteria will be. Perhaps the Minister will answer that some criteria will be set, and will tell you how many of these awards will be. Because there's no telling from this bill. What will be the cost of introducing it? I think it's all the Minister will be able to say. We did not discuss this at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u255	Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Art. 31a. Mr. Senator, I have a question. Areas have been defined where the Prime Minister will be able to award prizes, namely scientific, sporting or cultural achievements and the protection of national heritage. Why are only these and not other areas of social and economic life in our country taken into account? As we know, human activity affects many areas of life. Why does the Prime Minister, the legislator, the government propose only these areas? Was there a speech about that? What justification was possibly given? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u257	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u258	There's been talk of those four ministries that have these awards. In one ministry, I think the ministries of politics are, if I'm not mistaken, 3 such awards. So it was only about the ones in which they are. Could it have been extended? Well, it's all the petitioner of the bill... He can answer the question whether this only applies to these 4 ministries or whether it will eventually be extended in the future. I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u259	Senator Radziwill. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to ask Senator Shark to correct a false statement that had just been made, and we've somehow come to terms with it. The senator in this gallop of suspicion said that for the first time in a long time we have been considering a law prepared by the government. It's just not true. Because today, and at the previous meeting, we are dealing with laws, of which the overwhelming majority are laws prepared by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u261	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u262	Is there any exclusion in this bill? Does this law cover all citizens, including officials? Does he rule out... Is there a chance of a runaway of prizes for the Prime Minister because there are such prizes? And there may still be an additional prize in the field of culture, e.g. for the president of television. That's one thing. Secondly, is the possibility of awarding prizes to people from other countries or environments that work for the good of Poland in terms of culture, sport being considered? After all, many citizens of other countries sometimes speak for our country, we just have so many friends.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u263	I can only repeat that the criteria are not defined, so it is difficult for me to tell who can get it, or can it get it, for example. A foreigner. I don't know. I think... well, the description for this bill is so vague, so brief... [[Order...]] ...that all we know is that the Minister can make such a decision on his own initiative. However, what are the criteria, please ask the Minister. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u264	Senator Shark. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u265	In response, to the Minister. Minister, your colleagues... [[But which minister?]] Minister Radziwill. To see the senator, Minister Radziwill. I'm sorry, all right. I'm answering. Mr. Senator, I'm not gonna correct this, because together with your clubmates, we have found that many times... that the number of laws initiated by the government is much less than the number of parliamentary laws. We know why there's more Members. Because it's a fast path. Yes. And by adding here, I will ask: are you satisfied with the content, Minister? Don't wave your hand, because it's not pretty, and you have to be a gentleman. In addition, I will say that it is simply sloppy for today, and it is not appropriate to prepare draft laws in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u266	But, as I understand it, that's not what Minister Radziwill said, because he didn't prepare it, right? [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[To discuss this amendment...]] Okay, let's stop with the polemics for now. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. Well, I'd like to try, at least myself, to explain... to define these outstanding scientific achievements. I'm gonna stick to the sport that's close to me. Maybe there was something about it. Whether the European volleyball championship or the basketball world championship will be an outstanding sporting achievement Or the gold Olympic medal of Polish hockey players? Which of these achievements will be an outstanding sporting achievement? For which achievement is the chance to receive the prize of the President of the Council of Ministers? Perhaps for all 3 or none of them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u268	You asked Senator Slugocki a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u269	Mr. Senator, each of the questions you asked at the end is the correct answer. It could be all these achievements or none of them. This is the Prime Minister's discretionary award. If the Prime Minister thinks he likes to watch e.g. It's football or other sports, and he's gonna think that this special award should be awarded, and he's gonna reward it. We're still talking about the Prime Minister's discretionary award.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u270	Thank you. There are no more questions. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: What do you mean there isn't?]] Ah! Senator Boris-Damięcka. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, ask me, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u271	Because there's so much noise that I didn't hear... Mr Senator, I would like to ask whether any of the members of the committee, from you, have asked such a question or considered whether there is a limit to the sum that the Prime Minister may have in terms of reward, whether it is limited. Is that any sum growing infinity? I'm asking because these prizes are from the state budget, which is from our taxes. Was there a conversation about it? Isn't anyone worried that there is no limit here in the sense of having the sum of the prize money? If there hasn't been such a conversation, I'd ask you to write me down with a question to the representative of the government. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u272	Of course, such a discussion was, such questions were. Moreover, in the opinion of the Legislative Office, this issue is also raised in the context of the general reserve. We all know what a general reserve is. These are mainly investment funds, for what cannot be planned precisely today, etc. Therefore, if this could be well planned, set some criteria, determine how many of these prizes are to be awarded in a year, what amount it would be, then we could determine something. However, there is no clarity about the amount here, and the general reserve is very large. Therefore, the Prime Minister may not award any prize this year if this law enters into force and may award e.g. One, maybe 10 prizes or 100. There are no limits here, because the funds for these prizes will certainly be able to obtain from the general reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u273	No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk and Minister Paweł Szrot were authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. You have the opportunity to speak on the bill under consideration and then answer the questions asked. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to Senator Flork, who has very comprehensively submitted the contents of the bill here. I don't really have anything left to add except for the tax exemption... The point is that this award will also not include the income criterion in the case of welfare benefits. Mr. Senator very bravely held out here a massive fire of questions that should actually be directed into my chest. I would like to express my thanks here, because the senator has become somewhat against his will as the author of the motion to reject the project in its entirety. Of course, I cannot support this proposal and I call on the High House to support the bill. Given that you presented a project with which, I assume, Mr. Senator, you were emotionally unidentifiable, I must admit that you have retained some objectivity here. And thank you again for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u275	Thank you very much, Minister. Now, questions for you. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Yes, many questions have been raised. Senator Rybicki...]] [[Why don't I put a question to you? I had a question for the rapporteur, but I have another question for you...]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: I took note of your question and prepared an answer. If you want, I can do this...]] [[There you go...]] There you go. [[If you know what I want to ask you...]] Mr. Senator Rybicki, you're welcome. Do you want to ask a question? [[Yeah, I want to ask.]] Then ask them.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u276	Minister, the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers say that every government project should have an impact assessment. That comes from the Council of Ministers' rules of procedure. This annex has very many points: what problem is solved, recommended solution, including planned intervention tools, expected effect... There is a lot of that, but there is also an impact on the public finance sector. This is a table where there are a lot of different questions about total revenue, total expenditure, total balance, state budget, units... There's a lot of that. Does this proposal, which the government is proposing, contain an impact assessment, in particular as regards the state budget and the consequences that the bill will mean for the state budget and individual sectoral budgets? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u277	There you go, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u278	Senator, the impact of this regulation on the public finance sector is paradoxical I'm gonna let it be this simple. The key here is the source of this award, the general reserve of public finances. She is defined in every budget, determined in quota terms. This year It's probably 240 million. It usually, year after year, is spent entirely or almost entirely. A number of funds from this reserve go for various investment purposes. The basic criterion is that these objectives, these investment tasks, cannot be foreseen when planning the budget as they are extraordinary. The idea of this project is that it's going to be a small fraction of this general reserve. The financial resources are already provided for in the Budget Act and that is quite sufficient. We move within this general limit. Mr. Senator, allow me to reach out to the notes, he also asked about the validity of the tax exemption. It is also a form of special honoring, appreciating the exceptional merits for which this prize will be awarded, as will the exemption from inclusion in the income criterion. Senator Rulewski asked a few questions about, for example, Some kind of taxi driver who's supposed to be admitted. Well, from the very definition of the prize, it is not possible to apply either a specific taxi driver, Mr. Senator Rulewski, or any quantifier or specific Kazuistic criteria for the award of this prize. Mr. Senator Slugocki, I am now referring to your questions that you asked during the debate. The very idea of reward, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, is based on the principle of assessment and discretion. Otherwise it just can't be. Well, what criterion can be introduced here to assess whether a given literary or film work or sporting achievement is better than others? We must rely on the recognition of the President of the Council of Ministers. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Maybe we should ask more questions.]] Yeah, that's right. Why don't you get to the questions? Mr. Marshal, if I could just... [[Don't be nervous. The Minister is now free to speak.]] But I'll be done, Mr. Marshal. I'm putting myself at the disposal of the members of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u279	Senator Boris-Damięcka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u280	I repeat my question: will not the bill that you are proposing limit the Prime Minister's appropriations for the prizes? I'm asking because this bill doesn't say anything about it. There's an open space here and Well, I'm sorry to say so trivially. The scooter of the soul when it comes to the height of these prizes. That's my basic question. Now, question two, ancillary, to which I'd like you to answer as well. Every resort that falls under the Prime Minister's authority has its own funds, and within these funds, a fund for various kinds of prizes or projects. Why should the Prime Minister's firm be treated specially, have any additional funds? I understand the firm has funds for this kind of thing. What happened? Has the Prime Minister made a promise and, in order to achieve it, he must have adequate funds, and now he does not have them or has no authority for them? Please answer honestly, clearly, openly, so that we do not have to look for answers to this question in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u281	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u282	Senator, I'll answer that. There is, of course, freedom here, but, I remind you, freedom within the limits of rational management of funds from the general reserve of the President of the Council of Ministers. And there is no doubt that the funds allocated to the prizes in question will represent a small fraction of the entire reserve. As regards the funds for the so-called. Resort awards... I remind you that 4 resorts have the possibility, although one of the resorts can award as many as 3 prizes, in 3 areas of the family, work and social policy. The President of the Council of Ministers has so far not had the power to award such awards. There is, of course, an institution for special pensions, but this cannot be identified with a reward for specific achievements. About the reasons... The reasons are future, Senator, and impossible to predict. We can imagine. I've already talked about it. That Polish film, film of Polish creators will receive the award at an important international festival. I personally, as a member of the jury, would not vote in such a situation in favour of the film "Kler". But then those rules would apply. And I stress: this award is a special, unique, highest prize in the hierarchy This is the assumption, because the President of the Council of Ministers is also in the hierarchy of officials of the Republic of Poland superior to the Ministry ministers, constitutional ministers. Please accept the explanation. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: And the second part... Sorry. And the second part of my question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u283	And what was the second part? Please. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Remind me.]] Remind me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u284	I just want to remind you. [[Voice from the room: Please.]] The second part of my question was: did the Prime Minister make any commitments in connection with which he needed such a law to be able to implement it, because he would not have had such competence in the event that there was no law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u285	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u286	Senator, this law is independent of any obligations or promises of the President of the Council of Ministers. It is planned for the future and will cover any event of the nature of achievement, whether sports or scientific or cultural. Please accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u287	Minister, now I'd like to ask you a question. Whether this special reserve is, as you said, for investments, for unforeseen situations such as flooding or fire, and therefore investments, but related to this type of situation, rescue action, etc.? Is this 240 million zloty special reserve earmarked for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u288	Are you already a marshal... [[Yeah, yeah, I'm done.]] So, yes, general reserve, not targeted. Because it's... [[Excuse me, general reserve, of course, not intentional, general.]] The general reserve is scheduled for... Well, that might be paradoxical: it's scheduled for unforeseen events during the budget planning period. It is mainly issued with investment objectives, but not only, there are no restrictions here. And when it comes to events related to e.g. With the natural disasters that Mr. Marshal called, there's another reserve at the disposal of the Ministry of Home Affairs. She's used in situations like this. It was used last year, two years ago. And here there is no concern that the granting of these awards in any way, even the smallest way, will limit the availability of these funds. Please accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u289	Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u290	Thank you very much. Minister, I also have a question about the rules of procedure of the Council of Ministers. I would like to refer to Section III of Chapter 1 on the general principles for the drafting of legislation, where it is referred to... I'm calling in the 2018 Rules of Procedure. It refers to inter-ministerial arrangements, but also to public consultations. And I would kindly ask the Minister whether such consultations, at least between these ministers concerned, were there? Have they reached your position, the views of these ministers? What was their content? That's the first question. And second question. Minister, have there been discussions with interested environments, i.e. with the environment of Polish creators, with the Polish scientific and sports community? And what are the opinions of these communities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u291	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u292	Mr. Senator, I would like to clarify here that when it comes to consultations with ministries and the social community, they take place in practically two different forms. Interministerial consultation this is the process of the project in the framework of the government legislation begins with these consultations of interministerial strict meanings, which take place in correspondence form, then we deal with the work of committees, numerous committees, because it is economic, social, and at the end is the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers. None of the resorts made any criticism of this law. As far as public consultations are concerned, they were carried out by making this project available on the BIP website of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, then on the pages of the Sejm and the Senate. As Senator Florek mentioned, only the Polish City Union has exercised the right of consultation, so... Besides, it is understandable because it is really difficult to imagine an environment that would be interested in such a critical regulation. Let us also remember that this regulation is addressed to individuals, not to environments. Please accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u293	Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u294	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as I would like to clarify. 'Cause I thought, too, from this general reserve so far... You said it was about 240 million and so far it was spent almost entirely. That's what happened so far. That's how it was... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Yes.]] Tell me: what has this amount been spent on so far, spent on? Because I thought, too, when it happened, as your marshal said earlier, some unexpected natural disaster or other similar event. I mean, when there were events that couldn't be expected. It's the money that was It's kind of a stand-by out there. And now I'm a little freaked out because it turns out that there are no rules on what this money can go to, and there's no basically any prepared... you're talking very much about the movie, about any other decisions, about prizes, and I understand that... But here somewhere, it's just that there's no money left for volleyball prizes... Well, for the movie, I think the Minister of Culture has a certain amount of money, including these awards, so please tell me... But what has the general reserve been spent on so far? And doesn't that just... No? Then calm me down.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u295	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u296	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, as I was saying, this is an impossible situation in budget design. It's really hard to categorize situations like this. These funds were spent on certain municipal investments, e.g. for the renovation of the historic building, which, as it turned out during the year, was in poor condition. Questions about this have been raised before, during the debate. Of course, the allocation of funds from this reserve, or the future planned award of prizes, will not be secret or discreet. This is all done on the basis of the order of the President of the Council of Ministers, which is widely available. And I encourage you... But I can't... We can, of course, prepare written information about how it was last year - It's However, it is always presented to the High House as part of the budget implementation report. There's nothing classified about it. But I stress that when it comes to objectives related to such most shocking natural disasters, the money for this is saved in the budget elsewhere, i.e. in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Reserve. Please accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u297	All right, Minister. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u298	I've already asked about it, so maybe just repeating... will there be any possible exclusion here? And what will be the situation of repeated rewards when some awards have been awarded? E.g. The president of PZPN awarded the footballers a prize, then the Prime Minister, and then the parade... Did you even consider this solution so that this prize would have one value, so that there wouldn't be a social chase later on thoughts, questions why this team got so much, so much why Radwańska got only 5 grand, since it's not even pocket money for her, etc.? And for foreign people, for people who work for Polish culture... Are such rewards intended for them?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u299	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u300	Mr. Senator, the answer is simple: there are no restrictions, there are no exemptions. It is difficult to predict some exemptions in terms of these categories of activities: cultural, sporting, scientific. Why would we turn someone off? I used a bit of a joke at the committee meeting, although not exactly an example. Imagine that your colleague, Senator Fedorovich, would create such an acting creation... [[Yeah, I'm in. And can President Kurski get an award in the field of culture?]] [[Of course! And how...]] [[Voice from the room: Not one.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Even has to.]] [[Let's not decide right now who needs to...]] Yeah, well, we're not gonna impose on the Prime Minister in advance who's specially accomplished... I'm sorry, but that's all I can say about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u301	Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u302	Thank you. I would like to ask how this new award of the President of the Council of Ministers will be awarded to the old President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. to these awards for scientific achievements awarded for doctoral, habilitation, artistic achievements, outstanding scientific or artistic achievements and outstanding scientific and technical achievements? How does that have to do with this? Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u303	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u304	Thank you for that question, Senator. Well, the award for scientific achievements in the form of these doctoral, scientific works is completely different in character. There is a procedure for reporting by scientific institutions and there is a pot in the budget of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. That's because you just have to spend the money you're planning. This award is granted year after year and this budget entry is implemented. The feature of the reward that we are talking about here is the inability to predict it. It can be assumed that there will be such achievements that are worthy of rewards, but it cannot be excluded that such achievements will not be achieved in a given financial year. There's absolute freedom here. This is how we avoid the situation, which is to refer to the doubts of the Legislative Office, which Senator Florek presented concerning the general reserve as the source of this award. What could possibly happen hypothetically at the end of the financial year, in which we would have to be feverishly looking for a purpose, something that we would spend our money on, rewarding it. Please accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u305	Thank you. Mr. Senator Bonisławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u306	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have one question from such brief telephone questions. Well, you said that if anyone was successful... But success is usually followed by rewards. If someone gets a Nobel Prize, for example. in the literary field, this is a monetary prize. Athletes have such statutory prizes, too. Isn't that what I'm going to say, a sub-reward added to that money? Is that how it's supposed to be understood? Can't a writer who gets the Golden Feather prize plus 30,000 zlotys count on this prize, or should he count on this prize, tax-free in this case? Well, as a rule, all awards are taxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u307	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u308	Mr. Senator, don't tie this to any other prizes. The idea isn't that it's supposed to supplement some other reward. It's supposed to be an spontaneous reward. Please remember that the Nobel Prize, yes, is specific money, but for example. The American Film Academy Award is a gold statuette and nothing more. So you can't categorize it like that. It's supposed to be an spontaneous reward, it's supposed to be a special, special reward. I imagine, and that's the assumption. That it will be granted rarely, incidentally even, you can say. Yeah, a few cases a year. That's how I see it, Senator. I can also imagine that a certain assessment will include whether someone has already received some gratification from a given achievement. This is also important in determining and in determining the prize itself, and its majesty. Please... [[No rules?]] Please accept... There won't be anything secret about it. Please accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u309	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Can I have another second?]] Of course. Do you want to... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Only one sentence...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u310	Of course, I appeal to the High House to reject the Commission's motion to reject the law, so I call for this law to be adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[The first word counts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u311	Thank you, Minister, thank you. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Shark. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, it is appropriate to speak in such a situation because an extraordinary project has come in. Unbelievable not only because it is rare, less and less recently seen government project, but also because it concerns a matter which so far by previous prime ministers was considered, I suspect, to be such a special matter that no one has decided or dared to submit such a proposal. And he didn't make that proposal... Neither Prime Minister Szydło made such a proposal to create a special prize fund for the handouts, neither Prime Minister Kopacz nor Prime Minister Tusk nor even Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński And he didn't come up with anything like that, so he's gonna take some money out of some fund for special cases and before the election campaign, at the last moment, when it's only a few months before the election... Just before the end of his term of office, the Prime Minister decided to create a special prize pool granted without any regulations, freely accepted, i.e. simply... And one big election campaign is about to start, because if you start the campaign before the European elections, then it's just a vacation. And during the holiday, the Prime Minister can give it away. And then the campaign before the parliamentary elections. So that there will be one big campaign and during this campaign, as I understand it... Suddenly, after all these years, a prime minister came to the conclusion that he would award any awards to artists, folk activists, maybe scientists, etc. And despite the fact that over the years, the President of the Council of Ministers has been highly respected for his scientific achievements, it was a prize... So what's the problem? Well, there's a reward. Enough to keep it going. But no. Because it turns out that there, unfortunately, there is a job reporting, that there is a choice of the best jobs, the best PhDs, the best habilitations, the assessment of this achievement, there are some criteria, there must be a committee, and it would be a problem unbearable in the face of the election campaign that is coming. I'm being ironic, but this is really, Minister, forgive me, just embarrassing. It is simply an embarrassing introduction at the last stage of this term of office of any prize to be awarded during the election campaign. Because there's nothing else going on here. It's all about freedom. If the intentions were right, there would be any criteria and any factor. I draw attention to the fact that prizes are actually quite large in several ministries. Those prizes usually I don't know what it's like in other resorts, but I suspect it's the same in the sports department, I know how it is in the Ministry of Culture. They are awarded on the basis of applications, some committees are appointed which award these awards. So that's how it looks. There are also awards that are awarded at the Ministry of Sports or elsewhere. They are granted on behalf of the Republic of Poland, on behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Polish Government. Then the question comes back: then why do you need some extra prizes for the Prime Minister, given completely without any criteria? It's just to give them away during the election campaign. There's notabene hearing. I don't know if that's true, and you've gotten away with it. That the Prime Minister went somewhere, promised some footballers or volleyball players that he would reward them, and he didn't notice that he couldn't reward them at all because there was no such prize. He'd have to do it, ask the Minister of Sport or someone like that to take into account such outstanding achievements. Please also note that we are a country where there are medals, prizes, distinctions, etc., etc., and that is exactly what is so embarrassing that someone comes after so many prime ministers, after so many Prime Ministers... like I don't have my reward to go somewhere and give to someone? That's why it's so embarrassing that we just have to make fun of it, Minister. I think it's embarrassing. I wouldn't think that if there were any criteria, and if it wasn't done at a time like this and not for myself. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u313	Thank you, Senator. You have the voice of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Why are you surprised that the Prime Minister wants to be able to reward money? Every minister has the opportunity, and the head of government doesn't have it. This, of course, is a lack which at the moment the Law and Justice will make up for. And it's not like there's no specific money. There's 240 million in the general reserve. I don't think, of course, that this sum will be used for prizes, because the general reserve is to, well, patch emergency situations. Yeah, the MMA also has money for flood situations, fires, but when that money isn't enough from the MMA reserve, it's money in the general reserve, and that's what happened in 1997 when there was a huge flood, that's what happened in different different periods. So, of course, it's money for emergencies. The Minister here stated that it is impossible to predict who will receive this award. It is also impossible to predict, as I understand it, how high. So this can also be classified as an emergency. You don't know how high it is, because there are no rules, there are no rules, whether the prize is going to be $3,000 or $30,000, or maybe $300,000... Parliamentaryism was created to control the spending of public money. And I see the opposite here. The Prime Minister wants to go back to what was before, that he has a bag of money, and he will reach into that bag, just as the rulers used to do, and he will. Saying there's gonna be some rules, that there's gonna be a regulation... Okay, but where's the regulation? [[In the field.]] There are no rules. We make a bill that doesn't close any criteria, and this prize is a cash prize, that's money. How can you come to Parliament with such a proposal without any restrictions? And what, we're supposed to take our word for it? Who are we supposed to take our word for it? That's why this bill... there are different laws that come here, better, worse. I wouldn't define her in those categories. I'd call it a weird bill, and even, you know, weird. Because it's like you're going back to the rules that the king's book, the ruler, was ruled by. Of course, the Prime Minister has great power, greater power than the President. But for some reason, the Prime Minister was not given the opportunity to give prizes. All ministers can do this. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Most.]] Well, most of it. But this can be done by the Minister of Sport, the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Science, and in this respect, which the Prime Minister's award is to include. I'd understand if it was an emergency. Someone saves someone, or someone shows extraordinary courage, such situations happen from time to time. But this is a proposal for prizes in those areas where resort prizes are already awarded. As I say, there was a reason that the Prime Minister was not given this opportunity. He did not receive because it is known that the Prime Minister acts by his ministers, that he has an influence on this. Ministers, who so far give awards, have some criteria, have rules of these awards. They can't just put their hands in a bag of money and hand them to the left and to the right. Really, this bill is pretty weird for me. And I won't vote for strange laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u315	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill largely shows the clou of how we work on bill designs. There's a problem, someone wakes up, says, "Oh! I'm the one who doesn't have the opportunity to award prizes? No! Get the bill quickly. And he comes to us almost in this mode. The Minister answered questions about whether there was a document on the effects of this law. Senator Florek just found him and saw what it says. The entire application is empty, there's only justification. Well, that's a great bill. Minister, this shows actually ours, I say in general: ours, without any separation, to point out who the intellectual peaks of work on bill projects are. And what else is in this statement, Minister? That the awards will have a positive impact on micro-entrepreneurs. That's great! You've got entrepreneurs into this. That's what it says in the explanatory note. I want to say what Marshal Borusewicz said, but I don't want to go back to the past era and I don't want to follow the pattern. Only from Poland. There was this emperor, and his name was Bokassa, and before he became emperor... Otherwise, before becoming emperor, he was a man of very democratic views. The moment he became emperor, he was going in that direction. He rode everywhere with a treasure minister who carried such a big sack. When he came somewhere, he said. Yes: Here the nethers of the Central African Empire won the World Championship, reached to the bag and there was a prize. Even though they were the Minister of Sport, of culture, that the whole system was created. But no, the emperor must be able to award such prizes. And that's how this system was created. I see that there are some patterns that we want to put into our system of conduct, so to speak. There's a prize system. If I wanted to agree to the Prime Minister... I personally believe that, in certain situations, the Prime Minister could award such an award. But only in exceptional situations, in really very special situations. There should be a description, a limit, rules, etc., etc. It can't be like this, Minister. We can't predict that someone can get a reward. Of course not. But the rules of procedure for the award of prizes can be predicted. We can predict the process of the assignment procedure. What you say, Marshal Borowski, who fought for Polish democracy... [[Borowski?]] Borusewicz. [[Borusewicz, not Borowski.]] But it's for the Band-Aid, Mr. Marshal. I would like to say that it is up to parliamentarians to ensure that the process of awarding prizes is a delicate matter of clear, transparent, simple and easy to evaluate. I also want to say It's like going on with what I said in the budget discussion. You're really good at making laws and giving money away. What did the budget reviewers say? They said, when it comes to giving away money, it's great, but the investments unfortunately lie. And what I'm saying is... [[They're growing.]] They're growing. Yeah, they're growing. From 0 to 0,1, Minister. From 0 to 0.1. [[No, no.]] You know, in the times of the Polish People's Republic, they said this: we took a huge step forward, standing over the abyss. We've grown. And so we are growing now when it comes to investment. I want to say yes. Senator Shark spoke about this and Minister Radziwiłł spoke. Minister, the creation of law in this term of office is an academic example of how the law should not be created. I'll give you some facts so you know. I agree with you, there has been a very clear improvement in the number of government projects this year. We've got this one, for example. Isn't it great? Thoughtful, rich, you can say, developed, balanced, etc., etc. Well, that's the summit of good lawmaking. I will read how it was in previous years, because there are profound studies on this subject. I'll tell you a little bit to make it in time and fit in during the performance. Mr. Senator, I will only read what concerns the first 100 days of the government. The institutions that follow the creation of law in Europe have developed the following. In the first 100 days, Law and Justice passed 43 laws, 32 of which 77% It was a parliamentary bill. Working time has been greatly reduced, opinions reduced, etc. These are all the things we're talking about here today. But what's the worst part? Something about the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, these authors say that the role of the Senate is clearly limited, as 74% the laws were adopted without amendments. All the time at all kinds of meetings I answer the question whether the Senate is needed. I declare that as it is now, no. 74% Set it up without any corrections? Then why do we need the Senate? This is a completely unnecessary institution. What I'm saying is that Donald Tusk's first government was 8%. , and in the second, 11% the laws of the Members' Road. I also want to say that we had two breakthrough moments about the amount of law we created. I'm not talking about a law like that today. It was the moment of Poland's entry into the European Union. There was a lot of law back then. However, the most rights have been changed between 2016 and 2017. For example, in 2016, we created 32,000 pages of regulations and laws. If a man wanted to read it, he would have to read it in string for 23,000 hours. The authors of this study say: there is no country in a world that in such a way, at such a time and in such a way would create a good law. We have been saying for 3 years that the quality of this law is, in short, weak. If we add to that the randomness of lawmaking, which is according to the needs of the moment... Is there an election campaign? Well, then you have to give something to the Prime Minister. If he drives around Poland, he will take the finance minister with him, he will draw a few pennies out of his pocket and say: this is a very important reward. I would also like to say that even Prime Minister Szydło, as a person who was counted among the most powerful women in the world, had no idea to create such a fund for herself. And Mr Morawiecki created himself. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, especially the Senators and Rulers of Law and Justice, I will read you a quote from Alexis de Tocqueville. The situation that you've been pursuing all these three years, Alexis de Tocqueville wrote this... This is the second time I've told you this; I hope this will hold you in mind. When american... [[Are you addressing this to yourself?]] To your own place? Senator, I'm addressing you as well. When American senators realize that money can buy voters, it will be the end of American democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u317	Senator Shark has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, Senator Blackbay has taken part of my speech. Therefore, I will appeal to the Minister to pass this on to us. This is an appeal addressed to the Prime Minister. The point is that at the stage of the work on the budget in the Sejm, 10 million PLN was taken away from us for the care of Polonia, and we as Senate are taking care of Polonia. I would like to remind you that we have a very important anniversary, there is a century of regaining independence, and this limitation will significantly reduce our role. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister to make sure that perhaps from this general reserve, which is about PLN 240 million, or from another reserve... If he wanted to lean on our needs, on our requests, we would be very grateful. Let me remind you once again that taking this amount away from us creates a serious restriction on the role of the Senate as guardian over Polonia, which we have so far held. I hope that, given these great opportunities, the Prime Minister will also lean on this request. I believe, by all your senators, all of us, as we are in this Chamber, no matter how serious these requests are to be dealt with. I expect that. I hope we get a positive message. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u319	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Martynowski made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, I misread it. Senator Martynowski has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: I do not know the conclusions.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1086 and the report of the committee In print No 1086 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the Law on the Law on Higher Education and Science adopted by the Sejm on 31 January 2019. The committee was held today. The main objective of the amendment is to modify the current rule, according to which, from the date of expiry of the term of office of the university rector until the date of election or appointment of the rector, the duties of the rector are fulfilled by the oldest member of the Senate with at least a doctoral degree. According to the novel, in such a situation, the duties of the rector will be performed by the person indicated in the statutes of the university and, if the statutes do not indicate it, by the oldest member of the Senate with at least a doctoral degree. The Act shall enter into force on the day following the date of its publication. A discussion took place during the committee's work. Although the Legislative Office noted that it had abandoned the period of vacathio legis, it also stressed that it did not question the purpose and need of the amendment. Following an explanation by the Vice-Minister of Higher Education and Science present at the meeting, the members of the committee recognised the validity of the entry into force of the proposed law. The proposed amendment will eliminate the ambiguities related to who is to perform the duties of the Rector in the event of the expiry of the mandate. In addition, this amendment strengthens the statutory autonomy of the university by enabling it to determine on its own who will perform the duties of the rector in the event of expiry of the mandate. The Commission unanimously asks the Senate to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u321	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Deputy Minister Müller says no. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Rocki will be the first to speak in the discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Just after the adoption of Law 2.0 during several meetings, Prime Minister Gowin spoke about the fact that there will be no more than 2 amendments. Then, at some point, it turned out that they were already 3. Well, there wasn't supposed to be any more. I would like to remind you that in the course of the work of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, several amendments proposed by the Legislative Office were tabled. They were rejected. Among these amendments were also those which certainly made legislative sense, because this is the nature of the amendments proposed by the Bureau. Among these amendments was also an amendment related to the 50% issue the cost of obtaining revenue. She was rejected, too, and this problem still exists. As dorms know, there is an individual tax interpretation, which was obtained by the university under Minister Błaszczak, the Academy of Land Forces, which is detrimental to the dorms and at the same time indicates that Law 2.0 is incompatible with the tax rules. I fully support this law, which we are dealing with today, but it raises the question of why we are dealing with such a small matter and not dealing with matters that are really serious, concerning not just one university, not one rector who is in trouble, but thousands of academic teachers who are at risk of having to pay back unpaid taxes, and universities that will have to cover the costs of not having adopted the amendments that were tabled by the Legislative Office in the case of this law. I will no longer talk about other amendments which have also been tabled in the course of the work on this law. I don't expect the Minister to answer because I know there's work going on in this case. My concern is only that the discussion on 50% of the costs of obtaining has been going on for almost six months and, frankly, I do not see the prospects of a positive ending without amendment. And there is no amendment, there is only an initiative on minor change, the issue of replacing the rector, who is in legal difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u323	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions and the Act on the National Bank of Poland. The text of the Act is contained in print 1081, and the report of the committee In print No 1081 A. I'm asking the rapporteur... We'll wait a moment, Senator rapporteur is approaching the room. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ten minutes in session... [[Talking in the O.R.]] However, I resume the session, especially since none of your senators left the room at the time of the adjournment. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance considered at its meeting yesterday the law on amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions and the Act on the National Bank of Poland. This law was created on the basis of parliamentary drafts of laws. The solutions presented concern changes in the remuneration of senior managers at the National Bank of Poland, including those managing the bank's organisational cells, their deputies, the president, the vice president and members of the bank's management board. The Sejm passed a law at its seventy-seventh meeting on 31 January. It was transferred to the Senate on 31 January. The Commission held its meeting on 31 January evening and, following an in-depth discussion, calls for this law to be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u325	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[If you don't mind if I sign up for the discussion right away...]] It's at the secretary's, please. The draft law was introduced by Members. Would any of the invited guests like to speak on the bill under consideration? We have you with us, Vice President of the National Bank of Poland, Anna Trzejńska. Would the President like to speak? [[Deputy Director of the Department of the National Bank of Poland Ewa Raczko: Excuse me, Madam President is on his way, will be with you in a moment...]] I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the gym: But the president is coming...]] If he comes, there'll be questions. Senator Jackowski will be the first to speak in the discussion. There you go. [[Voice from the room: He's absent.]] He's not here. Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill would not be necessary, it would not be necessary to convene the Sejm, it would not be necessary to convene the Senate if the President of the National Bank of Poland behaved as European and global standards require. It must be said this way: unfortunately, it has happened differently because the national bank scandal is another pay scandal, and for months citizens have not been able to find out how much the 2 close colleagues of President Glapiński have actually earned. This discussion, which has crossed the country, is really evidence of the weakness of this country. I must say that the bank pretends that this discussion does not concern it. Ba, pretends that the National Bank of Poland, although the name itself indicates it, is not a state bank at all and does not trade state money, public money, so any act on the transparency of public life does not really apply to it. Even from the opinion of the European Central Bank it is clear that the disclosure of earnings in the National Bank of Poland, the national bank should take place, is desirable. I've been president of a big company for years. What happens in a bank that the whole nation trusts is beyond understanding. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the main problem is also that the KNF scandal and the national bank is still not explained. And I honestly want to tell you, in human terms, that competence has always been paid and paid. For competence and for the medical profession, ladies and gentlemen, every superior should pay as much as possible. But for occasional employment, you should pay as much as you can on the basis of what knowledge is. I hope that the defence of the way people act and develop their personal structures, which unfortunately is now symbolized by President Glapiński, will never take place again. I also hope that the authorities will consistently address the prevention of such agreements in the companies of the Treasury. This is not the only case, but in this group we do not need to find out, especially in recent years. There is still a strong criticism that makes it possible for the person making the statement to reserve the publication if it could endanger the person making the statement. But I think most people in this room will find that the salaries of your assistants to President Glapiński do not require strict information protection. [[Director, Mr. Senator.]] Not with the principals' range, Senator. And in the end, I would like to appeal to all those who make this decision so as not to ridicule the 40 millionth nation and not have this discussion anymore, because it is a shame. And the fact that we've given ourselves Sejm and Senate meetings is a sign of a lack of imagination. That's all I can say as a long-term entrepreneur. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u327	Senator Bierecki's voice is yours. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u328	I'll allow you to correct that information the senator gave me about the assistants. We're talking about the ladies who work as directors, which is what we're talking about here... [[The paper is patient, it'll take everything.]] ...the representatives of the National Bank of Poland confirm. Thus, it is a large abuse and a completely unfair media campaign aimed at defaming those people who work in their positions and receive wages, which we will learn about, as about other salaries, after the adoption of this law. But I would like to make amendments to this bill, 5 amendments, which I will briefly discuss. The first amendment is an amendment which allows the National Bank of Poland to publish the data specified in the article at a later date, within 3 months of the entry into force of the Act. 3 laws, i.e. information on salaries received in individual years by the President, Vice-Presidents, members of the Management Board, employees, etc. This applies to the years 1995 to 2001. From the current Vice President of the National Bank of Poland we received such information that these data are not digitized, they are in paper form. The introduction of this amount of data in accordance with the requirements of the Act will be time-consuming and cannot be executed immediately. Hence the proposal that NBP should receive 3 months to publish these data. At the same time, I would like to point out that the data for the period 2002/2018 would be as of the date of entry into force of the Act. They are digitized and can be published very easily. So this is a technical change which is intended to facilitate the implementation of this law by the National Bank of Poland. There is a proposal to add an article. 3a, which will determine the deadline for the execution of the obligation to cease business activity, which this law imposes on a number of persons employed in the National Bank of Poland. To date, the Act does not have a time limit for the implementation of this obligation, so it would be implemented at the time of the entry into force of the Act. And the law shall enter into force on the day of its publication, such is the proposal made in this law. Hence the proposal to add an article. 3a, which will give a month to cease business activities, to carry out the obligation to cease business activities. Finally, Art. 3b, proposal to add an article. 3b, actually resulting from the work schedule of the Sejm and the Senate. Adoption of amendments And in a moment, I'm going to talk about the necessary amendment that the Senate has to accept. It makes it possible for the Sejm to deal with this on 20 February, then the Sejm will be held, the planned meeting of the Sejm. The president has a month to process this bill, to sign it, which is March 20th. In another amendment, this is Amendment 5, we propose setting a minimum date for the entry into force of this law, which is after 14 days, which is in line with the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's gonna be April, in short, when we add these terms. Therefore, the proposal that the publication of the first statements of property which were to be published by 31 March should be established by 31 May. As I stress, this amendment is based solely on the calendar of parliamentary work. Finally, the necessary amendment, Amendment 4 in this table of amendments presented by me, is a legislative amendment. In the Act in Art. 4 there is an incorrect reference to Article. 1 of the Act amended and should be referred to Article. 2. Here is the wrong reference, hence the proposal for an amendment which corrects this legislative error. So much for the amendments that I have the honour of submitting and handing over to the marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u329	Thank you, Senator. You have the voice of Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a matter of fact, I wasn't going to speak, but since the media is talking out loud, in this room too, these comments are beginning to appear, of some sort, as I hear, to talk about connections, etc., I want to draw attention to one aspect. Well, the Senate Chamber has already dealt with this problem, but you need to be reminded of history. Senator Janina Sagatowska, I'd like to name two senators who were in on it at the time. When we worked during AWS on the so-called. The chimney bill, because I think that's what we used to call it. It was probably 2000, if I remember correctly, although I can confuse the dates, because it's a little bit of a story, a lot of time has passed. It was a tough discussion here about determining the remuneration of the National Bank of Poland. At the time, I had the courage to make an amendment to settle the remuneration of the President of the National Bank of Poland. This amendment was passed by the Senate, voted out. This senate amendment in the Seym was rejected. Of course, there was a great investigation, what is the remuneration of the President of the National Bank of Poland. At the time she was president, as I recall, Mrs. Gronkiewicz-Waltz, who we knew, we all knew each other then. Once upon a time, I remember there was a longer debate in the Sejm on this subject and she said, "What are you, Senator?" Chróścikowski's picking on me? Why does my salary want to compare with the President's salary? At the time, the Members requested information, which was probably 2000; I may have confused the dates, but please take into account that there may be inaccuracies here. But then in the Sejm they couldn't find out, they didn't get the information on how much the president of the National Bank of Poland earns. The only information that came up in the discussion at the time was that information. I don't remember if she was 100%. sure In order to deduce the remuneration paid by the Vice President of the National Bank of Poland, it is necessary to refer As in the case of senators, the remuneration of the Undersecretary of State should be addressed to the Vice President of the National Bank of Poland, the remuneration of people who were on the Monetary Policy Council. The result of this deduction was that it was twenty thousand zlotys, i.e. more than even the Prime Minister had at that time, when these salaries were six times, etc., etc. And then no one took any further action except the Senate. We in the Senate voted on this amendment in order to regulate these salaries in the so-called. Chimney system. Unfortunately, the Seym rejected it. Since then, for so many years, for so many CEOs, no one's been picking on it. And today we're making a big deal out of it. I'm asking, what's the big deal? All these years it's been known, no one's... I don't want to name all these presidents one at a time anymore. No, no one's ever... And then they didn't reveal... You're gonna have to change the bill today? The question is, did the rules change? I don't know. Check it out. That's what we have the Legal Office for, too. Is there any secretive changes? Because it hasn't been revealed since. So this case has already been dealt with by the Senate once. I would like to inform you that I tabled amendments at the time and was shouted, said: what was this Senator Chróścikowski so upset by the President of the National Bank of Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u331	You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! President Adam Glapiński is very sensitive, very sensitive about the independence of the National Bank of Poland. And kind of right, kind of right. Only that here it is not enough to express such a desire and reprimand everyone who he believes violates this independence, but also to act in such a way that this opinion about the independence of the National Bank of Poland is strengthened and not weakened. Well, the 2 events that have happened lately, I don't call it an issue, because it's a word that I'm going to say, I reserve for other cases. In recent weeks, months, in fact, this independence of the National Bank of Poland was undermined in the sense that President Adam Glapiński used this independence for activities which could not gain approval. The first one was a famous meeting with Mr Chrzanowski and Mr Czarnecki, as well as the testimony of your former head of the KNF, at his request. Meeting the President of the National Bank of Poland with a single banker in extremely difficult financial situation must wake up In particular, when we know the circumstances of his meeting with the President of KNF, doubts about the rules of conduct of the President of the National Bank of Poland. The second case was the case of the remuneration, until it was completely unknown, because we were not able to obtain such a message. You are the director of the non-essential department, so to speak, namely the Department of Communications. The director's communication activities were none. The amount that was going through there, around 60,000 of which, of course, caused a righteous outrage to the public, and not just that, I would say, wide public opinion is often outraged at wages in various professions. But also environments that know how much you pay, how much you should pay, etc. And now the result is the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, when I look at this bill, I see that we are dealing with such a situation, and in any case with the risk of the situation that occurred when the ministers took the prizes which, as she said, as Prime Minister Szydło screamed, they deserved it. Then it turned out that it was wrong. Who has suffered the consequences? Members and senators and local government officials have been affected. And now it seems that the consequences will be borne by the directors and vice-directors of the departments of the National Bank of Poland, who are substantively outstanding and who should earn really good money. This is a constant policy of the ruling group, which is simply offended by criticism, and the penalty as a result of this criticism falls on the wrong people. As far as the President himself is concerned, the President will probably make what he earns. [[Voices from the room: Yes, sir.]] And nothing's gonna change that. By the way, his salary is only in part based on a law that talks about the remuneration of executives These amounts are comparable to the amounts received by the Prime Minister, more or less... [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Wait!]] ...and all the rest of his salary are bonuses and rewards. And these bonuses and rewards will continue to be received. Nobody's gonna change that. And it's a very good thing what I'm saying to make the matter clear. And the 0.6 means that no one jumps over that line, no matter if he's a great expert or less brilliant. But the case wasn't about that. The case was that in the National Bank of Poland the net of wages, but not of basic wages, exists and is varied only in total, i.e. including prizes and bonuses, is differentiated, i.e.. so that the most important departments have the upper limits above, and these, let's say, medium and least significant, lower. Which means that under no circumstances can the director of the communications department get any more. On the contrary, he should have less. than e.g. Director of the department that is involved in forecasting inflation, which is one of the most important issues in the NBP's activities. However, this proposal, which is being put forward at the moment, means that... Well, to set an example, let's say this: if the NBP president continues to earn with all the additions of PLN 60,000, then here we will have a maximum of 36 thousand. And yes, yes, the director of the communications department will no longer have $60,000, she will have $36,000, but the same $36,000 will be given to department directors who probably are getting a little bit more today. But never mind that. So they'll have the same. And that's what this is all about. And that's an irregularity! I therefore regret that. And there were proposals in the Seym. They may still have required amendments and work in the committee, but they were rather appealing to the grid. Then we can publish things if we really want to... In any event, they pointed to the need to create a certain net, a differentiated net of combined wages, i.e. and basic earnings, and rewards, and bonuses. Unfortunately, this solution is not here, but it's just an indicator of 0.6, so we cut everyone evenly. I don't think that's a good way to go, a good solution that will answer all the doubts expressed in this case. As far as other issues are concerned, e.g. property claims, I'm the one who wants to say, ladies and gentlemen, that property claims... Well, what are property claims for? Why would property claims be made in the first place? They were introduced because there is, of course, a large group of people exercising such functions, that they depend on certain decisions that can be made as a result of, to be clear, corruption. Therefore, there was such expectation that if someone uses this money, it would be, for example. He was buying cars, yachts, apartments, etc., so we'll ask him where he got the money. This is, of course, utopia. We know very well that it doesn't work that way after that, but I understand that was the motivation that those statements were for. The National Bank of Poland was overseen by the Chief Inspector of Banking Supervision. The so-called one. GINB made the decisions that KNF is making today. When GINB made such decisions, it was theoretically possible to assume that the relevant directors at the National Bank of Poland could, so to speak in quotes, direct incentives other than substance in decision-making towards commercial banks. In such a situation, these claims of property would still make sense, but they do not. At the moment, all this supervision is transferred to KNF, therefore the National Bank of Poland has nothing to do with it. So I'm asking, what kind of corruption can we talk about with directors like this or other departments? Why do you even want to make those property statements? I have absolutely no idea. It's kind of an alibi. In this situation, we say: give us statements of property, and we have a calm conscience. Someone's gonna make those statements, and we're gonna look at them when we do. I don't think they're gonna be published, because they don't seem to be published. [[Why?]] Well, no, that's what the bill says. That's very good, anyway. I want to tell you that this madness with property statements has really crossed all borders in Poland. There's no one else to read it, let alone learn. So, in conclusion, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that there are 2, 3 provisions in this law, especially those that will finally reveal these revenues... Well, lately, because Senator Bierecki is stalling, but eventually they're gonna expose this income, and everyone's gonna be so satisfied. But when it comes to solving the problem, of course, this bill doesn't solve anything. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u333	Senator Jackowski's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the National Bank of Poland with the Vice President at the head! I largely share the comments made by Senator Borowski just now, which may surprise you. Well, I think that the whole situation that occurred around the National Bank of Poland, and in some ways also... I made a statement on this case. In fact, I've made statements because I've made two This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its This is a situation that couldn't be at all. It would suffice to publish at the appropriate time a statement that would cut speculation on this subject. By the way, a mechanism has been launched that shows the whole political class in Poland The whole thing, whether it's from the opposition or the coalition. Avoiding a serious debate with citizens on the remuneration of managers in the state has led to such pathologies that in the Treasury companies there are assistants who earn more than the Prime Minister, the President and Marshal of the Sejm or the Senate combined. [[Applause]] There is no courage to have a serious discussion about this with the public, with the public. It's a little bit of running backwards. Unfortunately, this is the situation we are in. I've picked it up many times, High Izbo. In the last term of office, I made 34 statements, i.e. senatorial interpellations, on the remuneration of Rb-70. This is the methodology used by the Ministry of Finance for budgetary units, i.e. ministries, agencies, central institutions, I included in this, among others. Chancellery of the Sejm, Chancellery of the Senate, Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Ministry, various government agencies. This resulted in very interesting comparative material, which gives an answer to the extent of the diversity of earnings in these institutions, which has nothing to do with the content of the tasks of these institutions. High Izbo, this is the crown proof that unfortunately in these discussions you are trying to act with this method of salami: there is a problem, we stick a patch Or we could just cut another slice. I imagine now that many of the employees of the National Bank of Poland, who have been working for years, are reliable employees, proven professionals, at the moment they have become in a sense, in quotes, victims not of their mistakes. However, since we heard that these earnings could not be disclosed, although in my opinion it was quite real and it could be done, if not through the President, individually, by people who were in the field of interest... Then the whole situation could be avoided and this law would not be necessary. Because in the public debate, High Izbo, there was never a problem with the fact that the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland earns over-normative money in relation to public institutions. It's never been lifted. The public understood that the banking sector had its own regulations in this regard and that these remunerations are a consequence of those on the labour market in the banking sector. [[Qualification...]] That's the end of it. That's just the way it is. It is not only in Poland, but in many other European countries. And that's why it has to be said that the situation has become somewhat stalemate, because since the head of the National Bank of Poland claimed that these earnings cannot be disclosed, the bill appeared. This law in turn shows that the legislative authority is in favour of transparency, transparency, clarity in that there is nothing to hide. It must be made clear that this is the mechanism that we are dealing with, and the sooner we have a debate on the level of wages of public officials, in other words, those who are either directly or indirectly dependent on the taxpayer, and thus the parliamentarians, and ministers, and officials, and the higher ones, and the whole group that we call public officials, in my opinion, will be better. Unfortunately, it must also be said that the electoral calendar, in which there are upcoming triple elections, Euro elections, parliamentary elections and presidential elections, does not serve to hold a serious debate on this issue at this time. So, in other words, we have what we have, in a way, at our own request. Finally, I would like to say one more thing because I am often asked that. Well, to this day I have not received an answer to my statements, which were made on 28 December, even though I had signals that the answer would be given quickly. Maybe I can explain. I made statements on December 28th; these 30 days, the instructional deadline 'Cause it's not legal, it's instructional 'cause it's important from the moment the Marshal's handwriting with the attached statement goes to the desk of the person to whom the statement is addressed. [[Later.]] So you can assume, knowing what the flow of these documents looks like, that we are still within the deadline, that is, the deadline of 30 days has not been violated. I regret that these answers do not exist, because perhaps these answers would cause the atmosphere of this general debate to be different at the moment. Let me remind you that I made two statements. In my first statement, I asked about specific situations described in the media. In the second statement, I asked for information on the average remuneration in the National Bank of Poland, broken down by employees not fulfilling management functions and performing managerial functions, based on the Rb-70 methodology. And of course I am aware that the National Bank of Poland is not a budgetary institution, i.e. it is not financed by the budget. It is maintained by its own income. But this methodology, which is very precise and defines all the components of income that an employee gets in an institution... The Rb-70 method is the most precise, because it takes into account, you can say, almost everything that consists of the total amount of remuneration Bonuses, anniversary awards, various additions, etc. I haven't received any answers to this day, or at least there's no such answer on the Senate's website. Maybe he's in the Senate post office somewhere, but I don't know. So that I officially didn't get the answer. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: How will you vote?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u335	You have a voice, Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to Senator Borowski's statement. [[Voices from the hall: Oh!]] [[Voice from the room: This is new.]] Easy, easy. I think we're also here for the opposition benches... I drew your attention and the look on your faces, and your reactions were actually pointing to this... [[Ad rem.]] ...that you confirm what Senator Borowski says. [[100%.]] I'd like to say... Mr. Borowski here was talking about these payments, these bonuses, and that they turned out to be wrong. I've said it before, last year. I'm holding on to it today. I believe that these bonuses belonged to these people, and it was basically wrong that they had to give them back. [[Did they?]] [[They gave it away?]] Yeah, that's confirmed... [[Voice from the room: But did they give it away?]] Yeah, they did. As far as I know, they've given it away. The media would have watched it by now if someone hadn't given it up. So they gave it away. [[Who'd they give it to?]] I'll tell you what. I'm not gonna say a name, but I know this vice minister who told me that... He has a net salary of PLN 5,000, works from dawn to night, lives on the other side of Poland, so on average five times a month he goes back there. He says, "I've been working all week from morning to evening, and I can't imagine taking a cheap TLK train, so I'm driving a pendolino." This pendolino says In both directions, that is 300 zł, or 1 thousand 500 zł I spend on commuting and I have 3 thousand 500 zł left on my salary. What's the money? $3.5,000 for a man in the rank of Vice Minister? And there's most of them. So that those bonuses that these people got, that, by counting, wasn't enough. If someone got 20 or 30 grand a year there, then if they split it into... [[But who did they give it to?]] But I would ask for silence. Mr. Marshal, keep Mr. Klich quiet. [[Let the senator know.]] [[The Deputy Minister gets exactly what the Senator and the Member gets every penny. Decent.]] [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, comments in the discussion. Please, the senator has a voice.]] Good. So you think, Mr. Senator, it's decent that a senator, a Polish parliamentarian, earns decent money? [[Yeah, decent.]] I don't think so, but this isn't about me. I know a lot of senators who have lots of families, but that's not the point. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But we didn't lower it.]] But don't interrupt. You'll be able to speak. [[But we didn't lower it.]] It's just been reduced. [[Why?]] In fact, the average time it crashed for 12 months wasn't any shocking money. That's when you started outraged as to how you could lower your salary. And I'll tell you, you were outraged that the bonuses were paid. Bonuses were right because they really don't make much money. I'll tell you, I'll remind you, your man, Alexander Grad, took about 120 grand a month. Over the years, he, one man, took more than all the bonuses that Mrs Beata had paid by the Prime Minister. One man took so much! And here it turns out... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm not discussing this with you. And that's where your hypocrisy came in. And then you regret that Mr. President That's literally what Mr. Borowski said here. It's like he's reduced his payback by 2,000 zlotys. [[Didn't he?]] And now you're outraged. And here's what I'm gonna tell you: I'm against this reduction, too. But this isn't about me, because I have enough of my own income. But when a parliamentarian lowers his salary, he gets a little depreciated, shows that he doesn't deserve... that he's actually not worth his salary. That's insulting. In that situation, I'd move on. I would introduce by law that a parliamentarian in Poland only gets a diet. Maybe we should increase it, maybe not 2.5 thousand zlotys, maybe a little more. So that he only gets a diet and has the opportunity to make money elsewhere. However, I know that many parliamentarians do not have the opportunity to earn money and have a family. They wouldn't be able to keep up for the diet alone, so the pay should be higher. I will remind you that even in a country like Romania, which is considered a poor country, I give it for example. Every parliamentarian has a business car with a driver. I don't expect it because I don't need it. Just an example. And we are a big European country. So that I find it humiliating to lower my salary. Two thousand... Probably in 2001 or 2002, i.e. several years ago, the salaries of parliamentarians were much higher. At that time, the Parliamentarians received a 13th salary. If you look at inflation and the purchasing power of money, today a parliamentarian should earn 25 thousand zlotys. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Oh, bravo!]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] That's the way it's supposed to be. But, as I say, it's not about me, it's about those who just don't have the opportunity to earn. But in general, I'd even want to. You've been so outraged about these raises. So that you don't pay your salary at all and that people who have income will go to politics. So that they don't go into politics with money, because a parliamentarian can't be a social parliamentarian. Yeah, maybe just to pay off a diet. That's the way it's supposed to be. Yeah, well... I missed one thread... [[What a bad luck, we'll wait.]] I'm not gonna talk about the bank because I think... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I confirm here to Mr Borowski that this should be public. Here's a colleague, Senator Jackowski, who said that too. It's supposed to be public. I wonder why our wages are public. As for the property statements, I don't like it either. Well, it's just a sensation for the local media, and then they write... they quote statements. The statement should be for inspection by the service or the marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I think this is absurd. Everyone knows who they're talking about, they make a cheap sensation for people. So that's how I see it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very good!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u337	Senator Bierecki's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u338	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fairness to the legislative process, I would like to remind you that this law was based on 3 projects: a project submitted by the Civic Platform club, a project submitted by the Law and Justice Club and a project submitted by the Kukiz club15. This law, which we are currently debating, is indeed a combination of these three projects. In the Seym, 352 Members voted in favour of this law, 18 against, 41 abstentions. So this is a project that has very broad support, trans-club, general Parliamentary, I would say, general seismic. This is the project we're dealing with right now, and this is the project we're working on. Inspired by the speeches made by my previous speakers, I would like to withdraw the amendments I have tabled, except for one. It is about this legislative amendment, which corrects a manifest legislative error, and it is about Article. 4 words in Article. replace the words "Article 1" with the words "Article." 2. So the other amendments I withdraw so as to give the Sejm and all the clubs that supported this law a chance to take full responsibility for this law. Therefore, my amendment is limited only to the correction of the legislative error. The others according to the intention of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance... To the rest, I recommend the adoption of this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u339	You have a voice, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult for me to have a more constructive position than what I will present in a moment, and this is because we are as the High House not the first time to be cornered, either in connection with the timing of the decision-making, or in the absence of any adjustment. I could undoubtedly participate in all of this because I am called a chimney sweeper or co-author, not an author, a chimney bill. I could pass on some of the experiences that many clubs have had at the time to try to regulate matters concerning public officials or even those who run business. In such a broadband discussion, including, I would say, the rational views that Senator Borowski presents, and this strange silence of Senator Bierecki... It's weird, because in terms of substance, you were just talking about dates, technical things. You said you were proposing technical amendments. Thank you, sir. For such a guru of the PiS economy, it was, to be honest, not enough. [[Applause]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I would like to hear more, especially since you have a lot of experience in managing. I'd be happy to listen. Unfortunately, I haven't managed the big units yet, except for the union. I'd like to say there's a thought race here. First, let's straighten one thing out. In the media, even those, say, friendly true right hand or liberals on my left side, there were words that these salaries should correspond to the market situation and what is in other banks. This is a deep misunderstanding, ladies and gentlemen. Other banks are other banks. Their operation is primarily based on risk. There, hiring a bank president or other positions does not involve political nominations or even some sympathy, but it is a deep search for the best banking professionals. In addition, other banks have their own capital, i.e. shareholders or even the owner of the bank, capital which, as a rule, puts the market under review. So the risk is much greater there. The risk of the President of the National Bank of Poland depends only on political will. Senators gathered here, but more like the Sejm. You could say that this risk is very small. It did not happen in the history of Poland, this post-August Poland, that any president of the wrong policy, small or larger errors would suffer consequences. What do I want to prove? That he's a political nominator. The president of this bank is a political nominator. Its primary function should be to represent politics, and it is not the states, although the constitution gives it independence. If he's nominated by the winning party, then for the sake of clarity, he should represent... Mr Glapiński represents as much as 150% the political interests of the PiS. State policy covers more issues than merely professional ones. The president doesn't have to be a professional at all. Moreover, Minister Glapiński performed several functions which were not related to banking at all. I remember his worst achievement, that's in construction. Besides, it's already the nature of the PiS, that they always don't do that in construction. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Glapiński didn't get out either. He had greater achievements in the foundations, as I remember, and in the Solidarity where he helped. And we see what the consequences are. Right? But I don't want to discuss his history, I just want to prove that in the work on the chimney law, by editing it, we were guided by the belief that public officials are not subject to the same assessments, both substantive and personnel, as presidents, leaders, directors of commercial institutions, because they are not only meant to reflect the personnel policy of the winning group, but also to carry out other demands of this coalition. The PiS has been present and every second word has spoken about the social market economy, it always says that it is a matter of social justice. Well, it's not an act of social justice, at least in my opinion, if the head of the cabinet we call the assistant, because the head of the office can be anybody, not even the subordinates, that's how it's accepted, in the senator's offices, single-member offices, that's also the head of the office, he doesn't even have any underlings... But let's assume that this is the director of the office from serving tea or from nice smiles to the media, which is necessary, especially when the gold falls, because then he has to tell that she is going up. So this head of office doesn't fit into the concept of social justice policy if he makes 30 times more than minimum pension, sorry, minimum wage. 30 times more. And if you keep comparing it like that, is it justice, that this director, read: an assistant, and also about party pronunciation In my opinion, she was more qualified as a party than she was in management. This director, read: Assistant, e.g. He makes 20 times more money than the head of the Minister of Finance's office. How is that possible? There, I'm talking about the Minister of Finance's office, and there's the head of the cabinet of important financial decisions covering a much larger area than the head of the office... And you could do that chase of yours: who, how much, what and how much. Plus, we're supposed to decide these issues away from all these internal systems, beliefs, the needs of this bank. Then I want to say yes. This law, like this chimney, which was a law, so to speak, fire and which did not have a regulatory function, nor was it, so to speak, a systemic one, is a bubble, a gun that is supposed to create the impression that the PiS government is a government of social justice, and that's why it's hitting everyone who doesn't like the people... In my opinion, only one thing is good, or wrong, is that the president, contrary to the chimney law, who gave us a certain conviction, caused that... As Senator Borowski pointed out here, the salary of the President of the National Bank of Poland is still a great mystery to us. This is contrary to many other institutions with much greater responsibility, including constitutional responsibility, for which these salaries are public and given to the public. So I'm going to vote against this statutory crutch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u341	You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! Dear guests! I have a few words and observations about the expanding matter of wages. I think there's a song: because what turns us on is money. And I think you can see it right here too. In media space, it was also a simple question: how much does Mrs. Kozłowska, Wiśniewska or Iksińska earn? If no response has been received It doesn't matter whether it's your president or the other people concerned. And thus the financial security of the state was compromised, that is to say, we are not dealing with serious actions by people who do not know how to say it gently. Today, they have different executive functions in the country. And all because of two simple questions. Is it true that Mrs. Iksinska is making so much money? You just had to answer and there wouldn't be a case. I don't know the answer. Will the bill answer that question? No. But how much fun is this bank gonna have? Ooh... And is that taking care of the financial security of the state? Yesterday, the President spoke about this at the committee meeting and I fully share these concerns. This bill isn't just gonna solve anything. That is the conclusion I draw, not the President. It will also give sumptuousness to various kinds of games, comments and other things. Is this how state security in terms of finances is built? Not in my opinion. I rarely agree with Senator Jackowski, but today I will say that 100% I agree with him. You are dealing with a problem, as Senator Jackowski said, on the basis of salami. You cut a piece of it and stick it somewhere. We just passed a different bill. The Prime Minister thought, "Why don't I give you some prizes?" Okay, and there are several Members who have submitted a proposal, and the senators have accepted it without amendments, in line with the tradition of this term. As much as 77% Laws coming from the Sejm shall be adopted without amendments. Fantastic. [[82%, buddy.]] Already? We're growing stronger, my darlings. The Senate of the Republic of Poland in this term of office, however, is an intellectual force. [[The Seym is infallible.]] That conclusion, Mr. Senator, can also be drawn. The Seym is infallible. But then why the Senate? Either we call a meeting of the National Assembly, where we will all vote immediately, or we will have a one-room parliament in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, this law in my view will not answer this fundamental question arising in public space, will not solve any problem, and will reduce, so to speak, our responsibility for the financial security of the state. Plus all these problems... If you want to know what kind, take the minutes from the meeting of the budget committee that the president was talking about. Listen to the dangers it poses, the unnecessary work it causes. It's a pity it's been a pay disclosure since 1995... This should be done, Madam President, digitize, put on the board, that's all. Maybe then someone would find that thing he's looking for. I would like to say that what you are doing is conveying the statement of Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, a Member of Pomerania, who said this: turning back to 1995 is a real success of this law. Congratulations, Dear Senators of Law and Justice, such successes. I hope that you will soon stop sculpting these successes in Poland. Now I'm going back to what's been moved here and what I've been talking about. Paying is a very important, important topic. All Poles want to know who makes what and why. Of course, I am not talking about the situation that is in one of the Scandinavian countries. I think it's in Norway that the neighbor knows everything about the neighbor, about how much he makes. This is not in Polish culture for now, but some elements of transparency, readability of wages are needed. Of course you can say this: The National Bank of Poland is unrelated to the budget, so we will not inform who is earning. Some people say that. I've heard voices like that. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been almost four years. One Element of Righteous Criticism The right thing to do, I point out, on the part of Law and Justice, was what you said here about financial policy when it comes to remuneration. One of the senators mentioned one name, Mr. Alexander Grad, I think. Well, we were also upset by these salaries. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But it's settled today. I know he's a nuclear power plant specialist from Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, could this SKOK gentleman be a little... And I would like to say this: you have not settled anything in the sense of the pay system in Poland during these four years. Because when we read how much the nominators of Law and Justice earn today in supervisory boards, in companies of the Treasury, on television so-called. public, it's obvious you've arranged it nicely! Oh, nicely arranged it: millions of zlotys made by the presidents of the Treasury companies... Since this was part of your criticism in the previous term, I was hoping you guys could sort it out. What are you doing? You're doing what Senator Jackowski said: you want salami. - I'm gonna take the slices. - I'm gonna take the slices. Some things. You can't do that. I suggest you think about what you talked about, i.e. about what social justice you have introduced in Poland. Look at the PITs of your nominates, your chosen ones! But all the bad things that have happened, unfortunately, are now being transferred to a national bank, which, in my opinion, should be the last institution that barbecues like this. There's a couple of units we should take a closer look at. E.g. public television. Over there, ladies and gentlemen, that would be something to read! But somehow you can't see from your side the desire to show the wages, wages, relationships, other things. And in the matter of the bank, it was so easy, so fast, it went smoothly: resolution in one day, adoption without amendments... And to work, we publish and play on! I hope this game of yours is over soon. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u343	You have a voice, Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u344	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I wasn't going to speak because so many threads were moved here, so these threads were mixed up... Senator Rulewski's mind race Until I had to write it down to sort it all out... But Mr. Senator... [[But it wasn't for you, Senator.]] No, no... And Senator Czarnobaj He was a brave assistant too. A few lines. Ladies and gentlemen, cynicism, cynicism and once again cynicism on your part, in your statements. [[I think it's on your side.]] You voted in favour of this law in the Seym, your leader Grzegorz Schetyn... [[Voice from the room: So what?]] And did you... [[So what?]] Are the senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But... Do you not agree with your party and with Grzegorz Schetin? [[Voices from the hall: But that doesn't mean... that doesn't mean that we...]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, please be quiet! Everyone needs a chance to speak. There you go.]] Who filed the first bill on this subject? [[What's that? What's that?]] The Civic Platform. And just as President Grzegorz Bierecki said... [[But the platform doesn't...]] As President Grzegorz Bierecki said, this bill that we are debating today is a compilation of these three projects: the Kukiz project, the PiS project and the Platform project... [[A combination, a combination. That's what he said.]] ...or PO-KO because that's your name now. And all these elements of these 3 laws have been introduced there. So, as I hear Senator Borowski, who laments that he will have to make declarations of property... And, as I remember, it was from the Civic Platform project that the Sejm prescribed the need to make declarations of property. To this Mr. Borowski, who repeatedly referred to the example of Scandinavia, where the level of transparency, disclosure of everything, including property statements 'Cause this solution came to us from Scandinavia. It is at an unbelievably higher level than in Poland... And now Mr. Borowski here is tearing up crocodile tears that someone there will have to fill out a statement of property, and that's it... Well, Mr. Marshal, you'd have to make up your mind sometime. We have faced a very difficult decision, because the National Bank of Poland is an independent body, it is enshrined in the Constitution, and in various international treaties, and because we are in the European Union, we also have some kind of requirements of the European Central Bank. Mr. Senator Rulewski, the National Bank of Poland does not implement any policy of PiS or government, it is not implementing This is the essence of the matter enshrined in the law, where it is written that it is to pursue monetary policy and, if possible, synchronize it with the economic policy of the government. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, somebody's always got to call someone. Mrs Gronkiewicz-Waltz or Mr Marek Belka were appointed in the same mode as Mr Glapiński. It would be worth recalling that he is a professor of SGH, he has performed various functions and government, and in administration, and in business, and is a lecturer. I, ladies and gentlemen, have not met with anybody questioning the substantive competence of Professor Glapiński. However, of course, the situation in which we were put as a result of the disclosure of these alleged earnings of the directors of the departments has upset us, because we think that the earnings in the positions of directors, if this were to be confirmed, of PLN 60 thousand each, are the earnings which we consider to be high. We have therefore added our draft law and proposed certain provisions. And this is, Mr. and Mrs. Senators, a string, because we're the ones who've arranged the earnings in the Treasury companies, and we've been updating... [[Right, right.]] Yeah, yeah, you guys even debated it, I don't remember whether you voted for it or against it. In this term of office, Mr Senators, we have passed the earnings of the CEOs of all companies of the Treasury, and this is a 10-fold average salary in the economy, and for super large companies this is 15-fold, there are these bonuses. Right, ladies and gentlemen. If the senator doesn't remember that he voted on it, even against it, it's worth reaching into the transcripts, looking for it, because it was in this term. And we, ladies and gentlemen, have reduced earnings in the companies of the Treasury... [[Voice from the room: You have increased.]] Mr. Senator. E.g. The pay you mentioned by the president of TVP is also public... i.e. They are also within these limits, within these standards, because Polish Television is a company of the Treasury and must comply with statutory requirements in terms of the amount of remuneration. [[And they were reduced on TVP?]] Please? [[Have they been reduced?]] I do not know what the earnings are in the Polish Television, Ladies and gentlemen, because personal earnings are secret, and we say who can earn on a given job. We know that in a company of the Treasury with so much... There are 3 criteria: employment, income and capital. There are tables in which we can find out who, how much, in what range he earns. [[Voice from the room: Plus bonus.]] Please? [[Voice from the room: Plus bonus.]] Plus bonuses, yes, those that are described in this bill. All of this is public, and it was also a matter of our actions. We're the ones who reduced parliamentarians' wages. [[Voice from the room: You lowered it, yes.]] Of course, we've reduced those salaries to parliamentarians. [[It's time for the president.]] Please? [[It's time for the president.]] And President Jarosław Kaczyński as a professional Member... [[No...]] ...the same way he had reduced earnings. With regard to the earnings of the President of the National Bank of Poland, or generally and the President of the National Bank of Poland, and the entire Board of the National Bank of Poland, we do not want to raise this issue because we can meet with a European bank allegation that this is an attempt on the independence of the National Bank of Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sure, ladies and gentlemen, if we did, you'd be the first to report somewhere in Frankfurt that there's an assassination attempt on democracy that law and justice is doing. And that is another point that I would like to draw attention to. We are governed by EU rules, we are governed by international treaties, we are governed by the Constitution, we are now governed by the GDPR. President Glapiński revealed how much personal income he earns and how much other CEOs earn, he gave the exact gross amount to the exact decimal point. I think that's 63,000 zlotys, and the president at the committee hearing said, "Who cares?" We don't have the power... The difficulty was that the earnings could not be disclosed, for example. The ladies who are sitting here. We can reveal our earnings, our parliamentarians, we can reveal the earnings of Minister Kowalski, and when it comes to people who work in public institutions, it is simply the secret of earnings. What can we do? We can limit certain indicators, certain forks, better or worse formulated... But probably generally, we all considered, as a political class, at least so in the Seym, all Members of the Civic Platform or Kukiz.15 said that the earnings in the National Bank of Poland of 60,000 were too high for department directors, so this indicator 0.6 was accepted. Whether he's good or bad... Well, given that, as the vice president of the National Bank of Poland spoke at the meeting of the finance committee, the average salary of directors is 37 thousand, I think that this bill will be of a thousand zlotys... Of course, we're talking about the average salary, probably someone more, someone less earns, but that's the only possibility Parliament has. Because there's an expectation... For example, I do not agree with Mr Glapiński, who says that the bank itself makes the money, so here there is no possibility of interference. However, it is a bank that has a monopoly on doing business. And in one thing I agree with Senator Rulewski: it cannot actually be compared to a commercial bank that has to make money for this money at some risk. That's why, as a legislator, we have the right to reduce earnings... [[Time's up, Senator.]] That's another time, if I may... Can I stay, or do I have to come down? [[No, stop.]] We do this because that is the social expectation, and that is also the political expectation to do it. Let's see how this works in practice. I hope that it will work well and that none of the threats that you spoke about in the committees will simply fail to realize that the National Bank of Poland will continue to do well, properly performed the functions entrusted. And we should all care that the best professionals in NBP work, because this is a question of the stability and security of the money that we have in our wallets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u345	Senator Zdrojewska has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u346	Speaking of money, I'd like to start with some good news. I would like to say that since the government feeds itself, the opposition also feeds itself and informs that already 900 000 have been collected for ECS as part of the social fundraiser. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am now returning to these serious matters. Today we are talking about a bill that I agree with the previous speakers It should not happen at all, or we should actually get information, even general enough, from the President. And we have to ask why we didn't get that answer. Why? Why, for a few days after this whole thing came out... And let me remind you, this is how the scandal came out. It wasn't the opposition's idea, God forbid. That there were recordings on which the head of KNF spoke very ugly, condescendingly about the bank's employees, mentioning them by name, said that everyone knew her, that she was participating in all... And actually, what he had to say about her wasn't her merit assessment, he was talking about her as an ex-model, and he was only referring to some qualities of her appearance. I would like to point out that this really started the whole heyt for those two women who work at NBP, for these two directors. It was the head of the KNF, so defended by the head of NBP, Mr. Glapiński, who started this whole thing and those negative comments that later appeared. And there wouldn't be this bill today, either, because no one, Dear Gentlemen of Law and Justice, excuse me, and ladies, because I'm looking at the middle of the hall right now. - Nobody. So far, they haven't been interested in the CEO's salary... I guess we all think the NBP president should make good money and we have no doubt here. Let me remind you that the only people who have been reduced in their wages are parliamentarians. And it is the state that has lowered them, causing some citizens to find the wages of some presidents even more shocking. They seem to be. As I say, they don't shock me because I think they should be professionals. But citizens are shocked. And I don't really want to know who makes what's in NBP, either. I don't need that knowledge for anything. But, as I say, you started it, they put the whole machine in motion. This is Mr. Wawrzynowicz. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. Isn't that right? The head of KNF, the closest associate, recommended by the President of the National Bank of Poland... And now I remind you that when this whole thing started, first, I think for two or three days, Mr. President took all the water in his mouth, and you couldn't find anyone from the bank who would act in such a critical situation for the bank. So the avalanche grew, expectations grew, and now we're in such a situation that we're very far away from the scandal, and we're focusing on this bill, which, whether it is, will it be... we'll probably find out eventually. But, as I say, it is much more serious why President Glapiński defended your head of KNF so much, how he knew, for example, when this gentleman got out of jail, how he had such information, why the President of the National Bank of Poland did not want to reveal the earnings of his two closest associates, of which we know that she participated in all important meetings. She attended all the most important meetings. I am giving you some consideration, and I suggest you consider how much such a person can have knowledge of the NBP's work. And let's not take these ladies seriously, because I think these ladies are very serious people, and they know a lot about you, the president, the way you work, the head of KNF, the guys who used to come in there, and what they were coming for. And I would like to point out that... because these aren't funny things. This case isn't about ladies or their earnings, it's about the president and the big deal that I hope will be cleared up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u347	You have a voice, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't going to speak, but... well, well, Senator. Frost provoked me to step out into the podium. I'm afraid he left, but... [[He's out.]] I'm sure he'll listen to it later. Well, Senator Frost said to our part of the room that we're already on the run. Somewhere in the back of his head, that's what I'm gonna say. The point was, Brussels. In the next sentence, Senator Frost said that we are governed by European Union law. This is not a very logical link between 2 issues, because we are either talking about reporting, or we are talking about the fact that someone is exercising the rights that arise from international treaties. And appealing to the EU institutions is not a report. Something like that is a political insult to the other side. You told Senator Frost that he was so excited that these best professionals should be rewarded and that the NBP is. But, as Senator Zdrojewska explained very nicely here just now, the conversation and words of the head of KNF, derived from the nomination of Law and Justice, led to the fact that the professionalism of these workers has been seriously undermined. And this whole thing just came from, well, from the deep conviction of a person who seems to know them... She had this person's doubts... Once again, a family man, at least from the hands of the Law and Justice, who should know what he's saying. And I think that those words of Senator Mr. Frost were still inappropriate, the words about how we will decide in the vote, the reference to the fact that the Sejm tells us something... Well, I would like to address Senator Mroz directly here: we have our own idea and our own view of matters and we do not have to, as it was today for at least 2 laws, and earlier repeatedly, follow the sheep's momentum and without amendments these 82% Set up what Senator Czarnobaj was talking about, only because someone in political hands told us to. Senator Bierecki went out on the stand and began his speech in the way he thought me, because before he said Mr. Marshal, he said thank you. You were going out on your own, Mr. Senator, 'cause it was a round of applause for Mr. Senator Member, whose intellectual struggle... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...with Senator Borowski in turn inspired me to think further. Senator Bonkowski proposed that the rich, the best entrepreneurs, go to Parliament, and it would certainly be good if every parliamentarian, in general a political party, had a big developer as a sponsor or as a family. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u349	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... Sorry, Senator Borowski signed up again, I didn't see that. Please, I'm giving the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u350	Mr. Marshal! I only perform because Senator Frost made some substantive errors in his very expressive speech. Well, it would be good in our discussions, apart from polemics, to discuss how to act, to speak professionally about certain issues and not to spread any untruths. First of all, with regard to this bill we're working on today, Senator Frost was gracious to say that she's a compilation of three laws. First of all, the Kukiz Act15... by the way, she was closest to what I was talking about. It was a short bill, which said that it was necessary to establish such a network, that it was to be done by the Marshal of the Sejm in agreement with the President of the National Bank of Poland. I said it would require further refinement, but it was the right direction. This law has not been taken into account at all. And as for the other two, which is the Civic Platform project and the Law and Justice project, it's... Ladies and gentlemen, there are people in the courtroom, and I'd say they're mature, and I'm sure they remember that there was a pâté on sale in the days of the right past. It was horse pâté and hare pâté. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It consisted of half a horse and half a hare. And that's about the bill that Senator Frost was kind of talking about, which, of course, is the horse of the PiS project, and the hare of the Civic Platform project. This is so important that the main problem was what proportion of earnings are in the National Bank of Poland, rather than whether there will be declarations of property or not. And that was the subject of the Civic Platform project. That, first of all, is an explanation. Secondly, Senator Frozz attributed me that I supposedly shed crocodile tears because of the fact that you have to make declarations of property, for example. there is a great transparency in Sweden, etc. Well, just so we're clear, the senator doesn't need to know, but I'll let the senator know. In Sweden, it's not like 150,000 people make property claims. [[It's all out there.]] No, no. I assure you that's not the case. [[Norway.]] As for Norway, I don't know. By the way, as we refer to other countries, It's always my proposal. Let's take everything from these countries, not just one thing. Will we take from Norway e.g. d.o.b. Young people and children? We won't. In this case, we do not refer to Norway, but in another case we refer to Norway. Let's just drop it and talk about what's really meaningful and what doesn't make sense. I explained that the statement of assets of the NBP President, a member of the Management Board of NBP is fine. But the declarations of these unfortunate employees, the directors, the deputy directors... What's that for? I'd like to ask why. I said it's a good thing they're classified and we're not gonna see them. They'll be watched by people authorized to do it. Thirdly, Senator Frost was polite to say that we cannot show the wages of individual employees, because privacy and so on. I completely agree with you, but I would like to inform you that this bill provides that the Public Information Bulletin will give full wages, with prizes, with everything, in all positions. Mr. Senator, I highly appreciate your intelligence, and I'm sure if you ever want to know who the director of one or another department is... [[He'll find out.]] ...you'll find out. And you'll know how much he makes. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That is why you were wrong about this, too. In everyone else, if they were, you were right. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u351	You have a voice, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been an unexpected situation. I'm taking it a little bit as a success. This is Senator Frost, but others, as I have noticed, are threatening us with the European Union. It's been the other way around so far. It was we who supposedly threatened all of us, depriving Poland of sovereignty, and in particular denying the right to speak and freedom of speech to the sovereign, so understood by the PiS to the nation. No, Senator Frost and Others, Europe does not interfere so much. It does not tell how to develop matters concerning specialists in the National Bank of Poland or in any institution. You've made a lot of changes, e.g. in the judiciary. You almost kicked the judges out. And that's what Europe is... You were making a mass shooting in the courts, thus depriving those courts of their independence. I would also like to talk about this chase of thought, which is still here, about the fact that the Senate and the Sejm will now shape in every institution, even constitutionally, what the structure of wages is supposed to look like, who is going to make money. Well, it's humiliating for us and for me personally, because I just don't know about it, even though we've been doing the chimney bill for a very long time. I would like to say that the essence of the problem is that Senator Zdrojewska's statement fits into this thread, and Senator Borowski particularly stressed this. There is a lack of confidence in the President of the NBP. More than that, there is a suspicion whether there is even a charge of embezzlement of this public institution 'Cause it's a public institution. ♪ To the sovereign, to the... ♪ Because the voices of criticism weren't just from the opposition. I'd say the reaction here was moderate. But also from many, many other environments. And the question is, in this situation, shouldn't the PiS put a knife to the cause of trust. But PiS has unlimited trust, even when he doesn't know how much that president and his assistant earns. However, the nation has no trust in this matter and the PiS partially acknowledges this statutory gnome. So I, explaining why I said I couldn't vote for this gun, will end this speech like Owsiak: I won't see I'm not gonna let it go! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u353	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators... [[Ad vocem.]] Yes? Mr. Senator, do you copy? Ad vocem? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u354	Mr. Senator Rulewski, you're consciously saying that you're not telling the truth that I supposedly said that this bill regulates earnings. It regulates only the maximum earnings that may be in the National Bank of Poland, but the structure of these earnings And you know it very well, and if you don't know it, well, read it. It will depend on the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland. What the head of the department will earn is more important, less important, his deputy, deputy director, your specialist, your secretary, the head of the office or the department of communication will be under the authority of the institution. And it's clear how... there's no doubt about it. But I understand that Mr. Marshal Borowski, who is a very eloquent person, can, for example. About the horse and about the hare clever and fun to tell And maybe it's even funny... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Not funny, just accurate.]] Only that today we are adopting a very important law, on which there is a social expectation, is also a political expectation that, so to speak, customs in terms of... I don't know, fun. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. But I don't think the National Bank of Poland should play. But you can always come up with a nice story and quote it. I'm sure he'll be happy about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u355	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Bierecki and Senator Klein on behalf of the Senators' Group. The discussion is closed. Let me inform you that the vote... I'm sorry. Now I would like to ask if the representative of the National Bank of Poland, Vice President Anna Trzejńska, wants to speak. [[Vice President of the National Bank of Poland Anna Trzejńska: Yes.]] I'd like to invite you to the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u356	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr Marshal, for the opportunity to try to correct some of the things I have heard in this debate, not only in this debate, but also in the session of the Sejm. I've been trying to explain a few things since Tuesday, but it hasn't worked so far. Ladies and gentlemen, central bank. Its credibility and confidence in the central bank guarantees only its full independence. This is personal, institutional and, above all, financial independence. There is a reason why we stress this financial independence. Why? Because the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as well as the Act on the National Bank of Poland, which we are talking about, gave us a mandate in the form of maintaining price stability and not only And price stability seems to apply to all of us. [[But not your salary...]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] This is not only the stability of the price system, the price level, but this is also the stability of the financial system. These are tasks that go beyond any institution we're talking about here. These are cash settlements. How much we keep in budget accounts, how many trillion goes through our systems. We're clearing the entire banking system and not just the banking system. The financial stability I mentioned. It's like I'm going to quote an article. 3th Act on the National Bank of Poland... These are huge areas. This is the economy. foreign exchange reserves More than PLN 400 billion. We do not compare ourselves with commercial banks because we are practically bank banks and we manage huge foreign exchange reserves. For us, the level of wages in the banking sector... We take these into account so as not to deviate from the downside, but the characteristics of the central bank are not comparable to those of the commercial bank. You know that, but I'm going to say that the functions of Director of the Treasury Department do not correspond to the functions of Director of the Foreign Operations Department. No. We take this reference to the banking sector because we can't make less money. Why? Because if there is a movement of employees from commercial banks, they still need to learn a lot about the specifics of the central bank. In the opposite direction... And this direction is the opposite most often, rotation is quite large, because young people come after college, learn the specifics of the central bank and go to commercial banks. It's all the time, so to speak, the drain. And that's very good, because we're an institution that also educates. There is a drain of our employees not only to commercial banks, but also to the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Supervision Authority. We're an institution in the financial security network. I would therefore like to draw attention to this credibility and to this confidence in the central bank. That is absolutely not to be called into question. Trust in employees. At the National Bank of Poland works in the headquarters, you can say, at the level of directors of 25 people and these are people who have long-term internships. My internship is 35 years, from the beginning, I've been in NBP since 1983. And the internship of many of my colleagues, who take office as directors, is an internship of 20 years. These directors aren't changed, they're still there, because they're a guarantee that they've been doing their job properly for 10, 20, 30 years. I'm not going into any further structure below the directors. I have to admit, I'm sorry that what they're hearing because they're watching the situation is really very sad. You often say assistant. Please, we have some standard positions. This is the director of the department. We don't share... there are no non-essential departments here. Each department has its own specifics. Therefore, returning to this credibility and confidence in the central bank, I will say that this is trust in the Polish currency. That's trust in the gold. This is the highest value that the central bank has achieved so far, because I must admit that we are among the highest standards among central banks. And let's keep those standards. There's a lot of talk about independence. It's so easy to say independence. We need this independence to fulfill this mandate. If there is no independence that you can read exactly about in the convergence report... We are mainly talking about financial independence here. She means that no one can interfere with the financial independence of the central bank, and if it interferes, it prevents the execution of the most important mandate. I'm going back to the beginning, but that's not the point. And that is why the European Central Bank, I hope that you have read the ECB's opinion on this matter, is very interesting, it draws attention to these limitations in the form of this indicator 0.6: 0.6 from the remuneration of the President. This is already the amount of the President's salary: 63,000. 0.6 from here, so we're going down to 36. What are the risks to my colleagues? They're gonna be wondering. And there'll be phone calls from commercial banks. We're already having conversations: Why don't you go through? Why, Mr. Director, will you have a public statement? Public statements of directors, deputies of directors... I'm not talking about the board members because the board members are making statements. They are folding and you can reach them, no problem. Workers who seek different levels of access to public, classified information shall also make statements and shall be checked for six months. It's all there, it's lying. It's not public. What's the point of being public in the case of deputy directors, district departments? And right now we have 30... I'm sorry to make a mistake... We have 16 district units. I'm not talking about the fact that there's something written here that also applies. Please tell me what this is all about, the director of the department (an equivalent cell) and their deputies and those holding positions equivalent in terms of pay. A horse with a row of who's gonna tell me what's going on. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Why do you keep looking to the right all the time?]] I know I may be looking in the wrong direction, but... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Look at that side!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u357	Please... Please... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please... [[Vice President of the National Bank of Poland Anna Trzejńska: But the country here is more...]] Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! [[Vice President of the National Bank of Poland Anna Trzejńska: Ok...]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Vice President of the National Bank of Poland Anna Trzejńska: I would like to...]] Excuse me, Madam President. Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not at the rally. We're in the Senate. [[Okay, but we're not doing this...]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Exactly...]] But you're screaming, waving your hands... [[Vice President of the National Bank of Poland Anna Trzejńska: I will look straight.]] You're welcome... [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] You're welcome... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[Vice President of the National Bank of Poland Anna Trzejńska: Good.]] Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Listen to the president in focus. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u358	Especially since I've been standing here for the first time in 35 years... And now, if we're going to go back to pay equal positions, what does that mean? [[Voice from the room: 35 years ago there was no Senate.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Senator, no...]] [[It's only 30 years before the Senate exists.]] I'll talk to you later. [[Ladies and gentlemen!]] It's about equal pay positions, which means I need a set of all employees. And there's over 3,000 of them, process, check where these equivalent wages are and make statements. And it is not yet known at what time, at the end of what, or at the end of this year, or at the end of this year. What's the point of it if the property claims are made by the board members? You can do that. What's the point of being public? Just fold it, hold it, and if you need it, take a look. Another absurdity? As you read, as I say, the central bank is the most transparent institution. We don't avoid this transparency, but if we're going to publish I'm already abstracting the fact that it's very fast. Information from 1995 to 2018 on the remuneration of the President, Vice-Presidents of the Management Board, as well as Directors, Directors of District Branches... In 1995, there were 49 of them, then it decreased, so that at the moment we have 16 branches, fortunately. And also, back, an equivalent cell and people holding equivalent positions. And now: everything from 1995 to 2001 is in the archives in paper form. I can't imagine, I can't imagine we could do that, i.e. To search these archives for data from all the directors from the district departments since 1995. The fact that on paper we will be looking for... I don't know. Maybe the paper's faded. I don't know, paper quality. It was different then. Since 2002, we have had data in the IT system, but all of this needs to be processed, especially since I have to refer these positions to the Director and look in the figures for 3,000 employees of these equal wages. Little of that, I have to publish this in monthly periods of January, February, March, April, May, June... etc. By March 31st in the newsletter. I don't know, the newsletter will be... We're supposed to give up paper, and we're going to make books. I ask: what is the justification? What's the reason? I'm counting on your judgment. Now: why only the National Bank of Poland? No financial institution produces or makes public statements of directors' property... I'm not gonna go into the consequences, but I'm gonna tell you why there were so many numbers in terms of the risk of leaving. No institution publishes salaries month after month, and I am not saying that since 1995. How can you treat... After all, the employees, my friends and my colleagues are to different degrees... They're treated differently. This is... I don't want to use the word for "d." They're differentiated. I mean, why? And now the directors are wondering if it's worth working or not. And this is no longer about the amount of earnings, those about which... the Director of 36 thousand PLN on average. This isn't about that. It's just that it's being applied, and it's going back... Some information that's going to be published, property statements, plus pay... Well, then why make a statement of property if we're going to publish our salaries every month? After all, these workers do not work anywhere else, but in the National Bank of Poland, for many years. For many years. And I'm talking about executives and deputies. 'Cause it's probably gonna touch them again. Of course, we'll have to analyze it all, verify it. And if we maintain the differentiation of employees in terms of individual positions, and keep the same range that the director and deputy... Well, there's a difference, in thousands, to, well, tell one from the other. Then a few people will be injured. Therefore, I ask myself: why should we publish it in such detail? Why are there property claims? Let it be submitted to the Management Board, let the Management Board give the remuneration in the activity report. After all, at the committee meeting... I present a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland. I come and report once a year, right? We can put it there, no problem. These are the standards of the central banks. But let's not publish every month, since 1995... [[There's an amendment.]] I think these are the basic issues that I would call on you to consider the amendments. We're gonna... I am committed to the fact that the resolutions of the Management Board of NBP will be published. Right now, we're working on a pay grid, as we've been told before, to serve minims and maxims. We'll publish, no problem. We'll post it on the NBP website. We will describe in detail the positions, requirements, qualifications and principles that both basic salaries and allowances, bonuses. But this is where we begin to create an illusion. Tell me: is this salary to be with or without the anniversary prize? [[There are adjustments.]] Because if it's with the anniversary prize, then I have to cut down even more directors or deputies, etc. Do you want me to put other accessories in there, like... [[Every PIT settles.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are pretty... Thank you for the hint. And so on. And I could do it all the time... What's the point? Right now, the central bank is a laughingstock. Colleagues from other central banks ask: What is going on with you? So I'd really like to ask... Thank you very much for the amendment that has come back. I'm talking about the fact that the funds for remuneration are in the financial plan because it's gone, including the banking sector. Thank you very much for returning to this record. But I would ask you very much to consider what is the need for public statements of property. I don't want to say what the consequences might be because you know. And I'd like to ask if there's any desire for publication to sort it out and give us a vacathio legis. Not from tomorrow, because it's impossible, we can't do it. Mr President presented the amendments at the beginning of the amendment and then I don't know why. The amendments were withdrawn. I would very much ask you to reconsider... the central bank is a really important institution. I call for you to read... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...the ECB's opinion, because it is extremely important. I'm not gonna tell you what the consequences are. And I would ask you very much to remember that over 3,000 employees work at the National Bank of Poland. I'd like to treat them with some respect, because to them, this week is... it's a real shame if they're listening to this kind of discussion. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Thank you very much, Madam President. Because they've been reported...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Madam President has received our amendments. Thank you.]] I would also like to point out that the central bank is not so much an independent institution as a non-political institution. We only deal with substance, which is why I don't support those or the others... I express my opinion in substance and stress that independence depends on it, credibility depends on it. As you looked at in the rankings, you saw that the central bank was always in the first place, because there is great trust. Yes? Because we care about stability. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u359	Mr. Senator, he's gone. Thank you very much, Madam President. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u360	Message number one. The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Legislative Commission on the consideration of the amendments tabled to the Act amending the Act will take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room 217. Message number two. The joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act on the amendment of the Law on Real Estate Management and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into the property right of these land will take place 10 minutes after the announcement of the interruption in room 217. Message number three. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on the Council of Ministers and some other laws will take place immediately after the conclusion of the joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and the Committee on Infrastructure in Room 217. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Parental Supplementary Service Act will take place 5 minutes after the adjournment in room 179 is announced. The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of requests submitted to the Act amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions and the Act on the National Bank of Poland will take place 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u361	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 8:00 p.m. At 8:00 a.m. vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 11 to 19 minutes 46]] I'm extending the recess until 8:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 46 to 20 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u362	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Dear Senators, please keep your conversations quiet and take your seats. I would remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 13, 14 and 15 February 2019. The order of business of this meeting has been provided to you by electronic means. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring and some other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1075 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 80 votes in favour, no one voted against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring and some other laws. We return to the second agenda: Parental Supplementary Witness Act. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject; it is in print No 1083 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy proposes to adopt a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u364	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I will remind you that during the discussion, the legislative proposals were tabled by Senator Jarosław Duda, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Piotr Wach, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, Senator Jan Rulewski. Please, Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u365	Mr. Marshal, I would vote against this proposal, of course, but because many... [[But...]] ...Senators from the PiS promised that the bill would be revised, or at least supplemented with children with disabilities for whom there is no minimum... for the guardians of these children, I will vote in favour. [[For the bill?]] Yes. [[But what exactly is it?]] [[Voice from the room: It's good even...]] Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u366	We'll proceed to the vote... Do the other senators want to speak? No. Thank you very much. [[The voice from the room: But it was...]] [[That statement I made...]] But we're not discussing any more, Senator. Turn off the microphone right now, because every word will be heard by everyone. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, supported by the committee, to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted in favour, 57 in favour, no one voted against, 26 senators abstained. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Parental Service Act. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Election Code. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter; it is published in print No 1087 Z. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The joint committees recommend the adoption of a law without amendment. In addition, I inform you that Senators Grażyna Sztark, Piotr Florek, Jerzy Wcisła, Grzegorz Napieralski, Piotr Zientarski withdrew their proposal in point II (4) of the table of proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u368	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In addition to this point, which was mentioned, in addition to the withdrawn amendment from point 4, I propose... I urge us to vote in favour of the other amendments. I will not justify them in detail because I have justified them as rapporteur for the minority proposal. All I can say is that from the clear opinion of the State Election Commission, it appears that the law is internally contradictory, inconsistent, and above all in terms of passive electoral law, it sets the situation of such a kind that higher requirements are put, so to speak, to the lower-placed people who perform the functions of voists, presidents, mayors, and not Members and Senators, which of course, as I recall earlier, was also criticised by the representatives of Law and Justice. We believe that there should be absolutely no constitutional pattern here, i.e. that they do not have the option of exercising passive electoral rights only those who have been convicted of a final sentence of imprisonment for a deliberate offence, prosecuted by a private prosecution. Other rules, stricter than those with less prominent positions, simply threaten social injustice and are perceived as such. For this reason, we believe that without these amendments it is absolutely impossible to accept this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u370	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committee, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u371	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Let me speak from the place, because I'll be brief. [[You're welcome.]] I would like to draw your attention to Amendment 3 in the table of proposals. From the current wording proposed, it follows that members of the regional and district electoral committees will only be able to report those parties which, as a result of the recent local and parliamentary elections, have introduced voivodship councillors and parliamentarians, including the coalition of political parties. The amendment would aim to ensure that there is at least one party in the coalition of political parties that meets this condition. The others would not have to meet this condition, i.e. they would not have to have voivodeship councillors or parliamentarians after the last elections. I would very much like to ask you to support this amendment. Oh, of course, I'm also saying this on behalf of Senator Pociej. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u372	Okay, thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Grzegorz Napieralski, Senator Piotr Zientarski, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, Senator Alexander Pociej and Senator Barbara Zdrojewska submitted their conclusions during the discussion. [[We stand by our conclusions.]] Thank you very much. I would remind you that the Senators' Group withdrew the application contained in point 4 of Section II in print No 1087 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I can't see, I can't hear the calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the joint committees to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 27 against. [[Voting No 3]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Election Code. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of the land. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 1084 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u373	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u374	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Piotr Florek and Senator Piotr Zientarski submitted their conclusions during the discussion. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration supported by the joint committees to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 83 in favour, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Real Estate Management and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land. We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Council of Ministers and certain other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 1082 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act amending the Act on the Council of Ministers and some other laws. It's about the special awards of the Prime Minister. There are two conclusions. The first is a motion to reject the law. The second proposal is a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. The first is the proposal of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the second is Senator Marek Martynowski. Conclusion: none of the proposals submitted were supported by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u376	Does Senator Marek Martynowski still want to speak? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Against.]] [[Voices from the hall: "Aye, aye!"]] [[Voices from the room: Against!]] Make up your mind and vote because we're about to give you the results. Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 27 against, 56 against. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the bill, we are voting on Senator Marek Martynowski's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 27 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Council of Ministers and some other laws. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate print No 1086 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 82 were in favour, two abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions and the Act on the National Bank of Poland. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 1080 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends to the Senate that the proposal contained in point 3 of point II be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u378	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? In the course of the discussion, you submitted your conclusions to Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Sławomir Rybicki and Senator Władysław Komarnicki. You're welcome, Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We want to support this bill. However, in order for her to have, so to speak, her arms and legs, so that she is actually well received, please support the amendments. In order to civilize her and make her practical so that she can be applied in life and not need to be updated in a moment. That is why I ask you to support the amendments. With these amendments, we want to keep the bank fully independent.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u380	Okay, thank you very much. Do any of these senators want to speak? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 3 for, 79 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 gives a new wording to the amended Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a The Act on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions first of all by deleting the solution providing for the possibility of covering the content of the statement of assets with a "reserved' clause. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? But, ladies and gentlemen, let's not tell each other. Please report the results. The votes were 84 senators, 26 votes against, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 2 clarifies that the amended law on property claims applies to statements submitted for 2018 and that the members of the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland and the managers of positions in the National Bank of Poland make statements for 2018 until 31 March 2019. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 25 votes against, 56 votes against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 3 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 56 votes against, 3 against and 23 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions and the Act on the National Bank of Poland. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 70th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just a moment, Mr. Senator. One minute... [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u381	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I make 2 statements. The first statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, the Minister of Development, Mr Jerzy Kwieciński, and to the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz. I was approached by a manufacturer of a specific solution for people with disabilities, which is a solution It's kind of my thing, so I'm a little familiar with it. It's very interesting. Each wheelchair can be converted into an electric trolley using this portable device. Such a classic electric cart costs 30 and 40 thousand, and this device in the form of a prototype costs 7 thousand PLN. We hear a lot from the government about how we focus on knowledge, on innovation. This is, in my opinion, precisely the kind of innovation in rehabilitation equipment. I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the ministers And ask to speak to me, maybe by phone Where this gentleman could go to get some support, help, for his technological solution, in my opinion, very interesting. He calculated a few issues here, would like to get some funds to continue this production, he would like to help with legal protection of the technical solutions that, so to speak, implement, and help promote his product. I'd like to ask you to have a cell phone on my website directly to me. I would very much ask that one of these ministries or the Prime Minister, if that were possible, turn himself in so that we can help you pilot this solution. This is the first statement. The second statement is as follows. You came to me with a disability from the voivodship... Oh, I'm sending this statement to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. You came to me with disabilities from Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. This gentleman suffered an accident in the early 1990s. He'll quote from the letter he wrote to me. Our material situation deteriorated dramatically in December 2012 when the payment of the post-accident pension received due to the exhaustion of the amount of the liability insurance included in the liability liability insurance of the perpetrator of the accident was discontinued. And further: In March 2011, I received a summons to the court for a hearing to set aside the obligation to pay a post-accident pension by Warta SA due to the exhaustion of the guarantee amount of the liability insurance of the perpetrator of the accident. By a judgment of the court, I was deprived of my pension after my accident and sentenced to life in extreme poverty. I am talking about this because it is known that legislative work is underway to remove such a problem. They roll, it's a 1608 sejm print. People who contact me, and I feel like there's some kind of weird blockage in this work. Also, the parliamentarians from the Committee on Public Finance, with whom I spoke, signaled to me that they were actually helpless and that they felt that somehow by the Ministry of Finance they were being blocked in the work on this solution. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister to intervene with the Minister of Finance Teresa Czerwinska. This is not a large group of people to be affected. As I understand it, maybe the insurance companies are resisting this. I would like to ask the Minister and the Prime Minister to try to overcome this resistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u382	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u383	It's an honor to speak after you. [[No, I'm supposed to be laying on the pie by now.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was present at a meeting of law enforcement staff, administration and prosecution in Krakow. After the meeting with them, I prepared a statement to Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. Dear Minister, On the basis of the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator in view of the difficult situation of justice workers I ask the Minister to take immediate action to address the problem identified by the above mentioned professional groups. The employees of the general courts, through their representatives and the trade unions of the judiciary, call on the Minister and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to take urgent steps to raise the salaries of these professional groups. At present, the low pay of justice workers, as well as the introduction of ill-thought-out ICT systems, to use which this professional group has been forced to use, are causing mass pay, I stress, Mr. Marshal: mass... [[I'm listening, I'm listening.]] ...job layoffs in this sector. The situation is very serious because, as indicated by the representatives of these professional groups, it threatens the proper functioning of the justice system. In the light of the above, I request that information be made available on the activities undertaken by the Ministry of Justice between 1 November 2015 and 1 February 2019 in order to improve the situation of justice workers, in particular as regards the increase in salaries paid to the professional groups referred to in this letter. At the same time, I request that the information indicated be sent in writing to the address given in the heading of this proposal. Signed: Jerzy Fedorowicz, Bogdan Klich. Mr. Marshal, allow me to hand this over to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u384	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Now you're Senator Arthur Warzocha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask, through your marshal, to the President of the National Environmental Fund, to provide information on the state of play of the discussions between the fund's management and the Municipal Communication Company Sp. z o.o. in Częstochowa on grants for the purchase of 40 hybrid electric and gas-powered buses under the Galela programme in 2016. Public information shows that due to the failure of these cars, including cases of smoke and short circuit, and in one case of total vehicle combustion, the environmental effect of reducing the level of exhaust emissions in the city has not been achieved. Please also indicate the amount of the grant, possibly due interest and penalties, which can directly charge the budget of the city of Częstochowa and thus affect the level of public tasks carried out by that local government unit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-01-senat-72-1.u386	Thank you very much. The list of speakers was exhausted? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the second 70th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 20 minutes 44]]
