ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. I would like to call Piotr Olszówka, Krystian Jarubas, Daniel Milewski and Paweł Rychlik to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members Piotr Olszówka and Krystian Jarubas will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Krystian Jarubas and Daniel Milewski. Members of the Secretaries are already in their seats. That's why I'm asking you to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u2	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9, - Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 9, - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Public Finance together with the Infrastructure Commission - h.m. 10, - Culture and Media - hour 10, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 10, - Health-- hour. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 12, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 12.30, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 13, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 15, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 15. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 11, - Parliamentary Team for the Rights of Life - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Land gardens and Cooperatives - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Chemical Industry together with Parliamentary Team - Break with plastic - hour 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Universities of the Third Age - hour 19, - Parliamentary Group for: Universities of the Third Age together with the Parliamentary Group on Road Safety and Parliamentary Team Urban Policy - h.m. 7:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by Ewa Szymańska and Piotr Pyzik from Law and Justice, a question on the situation on agricultural markets and prices of basic agricultural products in the context of the international situation and possible losses caused by weather phenomena in part of Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski will answer. Before I ask the first question, Mrs Płępek asks for the greetings of students from the municipality of Porąbka, together with teachers and the general. [[Applause]] We wish you a successful stay in the Sejm and positive impressions, also from the sightseeing of Warsaw. Now, let's get started. You have the opportunity to listen to today's sitting. Here you go, Mrs Ewa Szymańska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u4	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, As your Marshal has already announced, it is about the situation on agricultural markets and prices of basic agricultural products in the context of the international situation and possible losses caused by weather phenomena in the territory of part of Poland. I mean the heavy rains in May that hit the south-eastern regions of the country and caused a lot of damage both on farms and on crops. There's been a lot of flooding and flooding. Please provide information on the extent of these damages in terms of both material and financial terms. It's a matter of fact, for example. the area of flooded crops. What measures have been taken to compensate farmers for their losses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u5	I ask you, Minister, to answer the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u6	Dear Marshal! Membership! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these questions, especially regarding the market situation, because this is also in line with my conviction that farmers' income should primarily come from the sale of their products on well-organized agricultural markets. Of course, all possibilities of public support, whether national or EU support - the difference is small - must be exploited and Poland also fights very hard for the future common agricultural policy, the multiannual financial framework, means for agriculture, but above all farmers' income should come from being paid in a dignified way, in a manner appropriate to the risks and costs incurred for their hard work. In this context, policy and the situation in international markets are very important. Poland is a major producer of food in the world, it is a country which is, if it can be said, structurally doomed to export. Without exports, Polish agriculture would simply choke. We produce a huge amount of products that we would not be able to absorb in the internal market. This concerns meat and its preparations, and this also concerns plant production. We are doing fairly well in international markets. We're looking for new markets all the time. Last year's export, about EUR 30 billion of agri-food production alone, shows that we are an increasingly important shareholder, a participant of this international game as well. And maybe for this reason there are attempts to discredit, devalue or devalue Polish food. Ladies and gentlemen, foreign trade. I will present the data for the second half of last year and until April, i.e. the most up-to-date data, very briefly. As far as cereals are concerned, we exported 1.5 million t of wheat, i.e. 5% more than in the same period of the previous year, mainly to Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Germany. I want to pay particular attention to these first two countries. For us, the markets are primarily those countries that are looking for grain and in a sustainable way because of the climate of this grain, they will never have the right amount, i.e. the countries of northern Africa, the Gulf countries, in general the countries of that part of the world. The problem is that we don't have an efficient port to tranship seeds, including cereals. There are private quays that generally decide for themselves who to sell the grain to. That is why we have made a decision, she will be implemented this year, about launching a state quay for the handling of cereals and other agricultural seeds. This will solve the problem, because then organised groups of farmers, operators, large producers will have the opportunity to sell through this state port. Balance is favourable, 14% more than a year ago, so as far as grain is concerned, the situation is not the worst. Prices are, of course, higher than a year ago, but this is not only a matter of regulation in international markets, but also that we had less cereals. Last year Polish agriculture was affected by severe drought, so it had an impact. At the moment wheat is about 16% more expensive, rye even more than 20%, feed barley about 17%. This may be a delight to farmers, to those who are selling it, but we also need to take into account prices that can translate into food prices. The fruit and vegetables market is a difficult market. Last year, mainly ground vegetables due to a small number of irrigation systems turned out to be unreliable crops, we cleaned out considerably less ground vegetables, which translated into prices, among others. The mythical parsley you've been talking about. But you can't compare things that are incomparable. If I hear and see great noise in the media because of the increase in food prices and there is an example of imported cherries from Spain of 70 PLN per kg, it is simply unfair, because it is necessary to compare what will be from Polish production, from Polish orchards. As for the production of vegetables and fruit, this year is not entirely clear. The spring drought caused some crops to be sown. They will also produce less orchards, among others. because there have been frost-related losses in some varieties. But consumers also need to understand that as far as field production is concerned, this production is also dependent on nature and there may be differences and fluctuations in prices. The milk market is stable, exports are growing, prices remain decent. Unfortunately, imports are growing and this is also bad information, because milk processors, including unfortunately dairy cooperatives, who should seek the interests of farmers, import milk or dairy products, spoiling the Polish market. The meat market is generally favourable for poultry and pork. Unfortunately, we did okay. 10% of beef losses when those cases involving illegal slaughter in one of the slaughterhouses were exaggerated and a hammer was built from which [[♪ The bell ♪]] it really hurt the image of Polish beef. If you allow me, I will respond to the natural conditions following a supplementary question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u7	Stay on the stand, Minister, because you will be asking a question from your place. And it will be Mr. Piotr Pyzik. You're welcome. Minister, stay. It'll be easier and faster this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u8	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I'd like to continue with some of the topics that you have raised here. It is about the conditions that occurred in spring this year, i.e. early drought, further, frosts and colds, which were at the turn of April and May, as well as all that we see today. Even I would argue that this may have a long-term impact on agricultural production. I would like to ask what this will be translated into food prices in the autumn of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u9	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Membership! Nature's influence on yielding is obvious. There's nothing to develop, I've already mentioned it a little bit, about last year's drought. This year's weather conditions are not good, but I don't know if there'll be any more years when they're good. In general, we observe the unwinding of nature, which is increasingly affecting the crops. Above all, water management, because we have no great influence on frosts, but water management, shortages, sometimes excess, also complicates the situation of producers. Spring is very dry, practically no snowfall, lack of water. The situation was dramatic at the end of April. On the other hand, May's rainfall has largely helped to rebuild water resources and increase yield. Some losses were no longer eliminated, some plants had to be sown due to the lack of sunrises. However, there was again excessive rainfall, mainly in the south of Poland. These are the dramatic scenes we watched in Małopolska, Podkarpacie, then there was this wave moving in this direction with the Vistula and Oder. These aren't big areas. These are not big areas which would have a significant impact on the overall situation of food production in Poland, also on vegetable production, because this was mainly the case, but it is very annoying and very destructive for those people who are involved in this production there. It is difficult to estimate for the time being, although we are looking very closely at the impact this will have on the entire food market in Poland. However, due to these farmers affected by disasters, the Institute of Fertilization and Soil Science has started decades of reports related to monitoring drought and other phenomena. This is his statutory role already since 2008. Drought for the time being occurs mainly in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, a little in Łódź, a little in Podlaskie. These are rather point droughts. This applies mainly to spring cereals, some winter cereals, which have a stronger root system, are more resistant to water shortages. This drought also affected strawberry cultivation. They won't be producing as much as we expected. On the other hand, it is very difficult to estimate the impact of frosts, in sadism mainly, because they did not occur throughout Poland. This was very variable in relation to the different varieties of fruit trees. For some, there is no loss, because the flowering did not occur at the time of frost, with some, these losses amounted to several dozen percent. So it is difficult to estimate how this will affect the market, but I want to assure you that there are committees there, where these natural phenomena have occurred. The point is to estimate these losses as soon as possible. And we're going to apply a scale of losses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] aid which is described in the legislation. If extraordinary measures and additional resources are needed, as was the case last year, the government makes such a declaration - and Prime Minister Morawiecki has also said many times - that farmers will not be left behind without help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u11	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Barbara Bartus and Anna Czech from the PiS Club on the spontaneous eruption of a mixture of gas and oil which took place since 20 April 2019 in Sękowa, Gorlicki district, at the site of Franciszek I, which was closed down at the end of the 19th century and was wound up in 1995. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy, and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr Tomasz Dąbrowski. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u12	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! According to the information provided by the media as a result of our question of eruption in Sękowa on the surface only in the first days after 20 April this year. About 100,000 came out. And a mixture of oil and water, and a gas that's hard to estimate, which is getting out to this day. In the area of Gorlicki County, and in particular in the villages of Sękowa, Kobylanka, Kryg, Lipinki, Biecz, and in the area of Podkarpacie, and especially under the direction of Krosno, in previous years PGNiG, after the start of the PO-PSL government in 2012, as it turned out, the irreversible process of the liquidation of numerous oil mines has already been eliminated in my territory by hundreds of similar wells. These drillings concern renewable deposits which, despite their decommissioning, are still active and collect gas and oil. Therefore, please inform me whether the liquidation of this well in Sękowa in 1995 was carried out in accordance with the art of operation of this type of deposit. Why was there even an eruption? Are similar drillings currently in the said area, and in particular in the area currently under liquidation of Lipinka mine, being disposed of according to the art of exploitation of this type of deposit? Did the operators of the Lipinka mine examine in detail whether there was gas in the wells that were destroyed there? Are the areas where the oil wells are removed safe for residents and for the environment, and do the relevant services have ongoing control over the wells? And, finally, what particular authority is responsible for the state and safety of the wells that have been destroyed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u13	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that the first exploration drilling for oil and gas in the Ropica, Sękowa, Siera area began in 1860 and ended in 1988. Over a more than 120-year period of exploration of oil and natural gas resources, the region enjoyed a high and continuous interest in the oil industry. During this time almost 800 drilling holes were made available for exploration and distribution of hydrocarbons. As a result of the work carried out, the oil deposit of Sulphur - Sękowa - Ropica, whose mining resources were calculated at 209.8 thousand, was documented. a. The operation of the deposit was completed in December 2000. In the last two years of operation, the monthly oil extraction was around 3.8 t, i.e. Approximately 150 liters of oil a day. During the lifetime of the deposit 99.8% were extracted resources of extracted crude oil accumulated in this deposit. Given that the deposit was exhausted in 2001, the Minister of the Environment deleted the deposit from the records of the fossil deposits and in August 2018 issued a decision to terminate the concession No 75/92 for the extraction of crude oil from the deposit of Siera - Sękowa - Ropica Górna. With the date of expiry of the licence, the mining area and the mining area designated for the deposit in question was abolished. At the end of the operation of the deposit, the trader began to liquidate wells and surface infrastructure. The decommissioning of the well in which a mixture of deposit water, oil, natural gas, or Francis 1 was leaked, was already carried out in 1996 due to the loss of oil production. I would like to point out that, in accordance with the rules in force, it is an entrepreneur who carries out mining activities in a given area, he is obliged to liquidate the wells and, if unsuccessful decommissioning is found, he is obliged to take action to ensure that these wells are effectively disposed of. The liquidation consisted in cleaning the well to the bottom, i.e. up to a depth of 460 m, then a lumber stopper was made from underneath to a depth of 390 m, above which cement corks were made at a depth of 390-360 m and from 20 m to the surface of the site. The space between the cement corks was filled with a thick wash, and the place after the cut-off was marked with a concrete cocoon. In case of accidental cases in a depleted deposit after the end of operation there may be a slow process of displacement by deposit water of residual oil to the surface, resulting pressure increases may result in leakages in closed wells. Given the amount of drilling wells carried out and the amount of leaks from the closed holes, I think we can talk about the fact that the closed wells do not pose a threat to the surrounding inhabitants and the environment, and the situation we have been dealing with in Sękowa is extremely rare and is due to the unpredictable behaviour of the mountaineer. Therefore, if there are further similar situations, the procedure will have to be verified, the way in which the holes already used are secured. As a result, 205 m3 of the mixture was removed from the closed well of Franek, which began on 20 April 2019, mainly consisting of deposit water contaminated with oil from the well and traces of gas-saturated oil. I would also like to stress that the leak is ongoing and monitored by PGNiG's watchers 24/7, while the company has made efforts to secure the leak. I would also like to point out that drilling outside the mining area and the mining area, and in this case this is the situation that we have been dealing with under the applicable rules, is the property of the State Treasury, and their control and security are the responsibility of the competent voivode. I would also like to point out that in the case of Jękowa, actions by the PGNiG services that secured the site and started to remove the effects of the leak were quickly and efficiently taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u15	Thank you very much. And the additional question will be asked by Mrs Anna Czech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for these explanations, but I wanted to ask you that this is, however, a phenomenon, as the Minister himself said, which is rare but disturbing. The question is: Are the current methods and techniques used to eliminate such wells, such as those in the Lipinka mine, safe and secure and guarantee that in the future there will be no similar events as those in the Jękowa? Is there even any control of the areas in which the wells are being closed due to this incident?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have one more question. As there was this eruption in our territory, there was hope that these deposits were, so the question that came from the inhabitants: Will PGNiG not return to this area? Isn't there going to be gas and oil? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because this explosion has given birth to many, many hopes in many inhabitants, that it can be mined, even your Eagle General says that maybe they themselves would excavate such oil for the needs of the inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, such an eruption raises hopes, but as I explained, it was not an eruption of oil, only because the mountain is something that works naturally - in Poland the geological structure and tectonic plate is relatively uniform, there are no earthquakes, but the mountain is working - as a result of the work of such a mountaineer, although it is constipated in a way that I have accurately presented, the structures change and may result in some fragmentation and the pressure of the discharge on the outside of the substances that are underneath. The subcarpathia is a region in which several thousand wells have been made, and here we are dealing with one case - on the ground I mentioned 800 wells - where, as a result of the work of the mountaineer, the substances that were below were released, but this is rather what the hole was plugged in, and the substance that was still there, but it has nothing to do with the oil that has already been extracted from the deposit, as I mentioned, in almost 100%. 'cause it's 99.8. So what's left is just leftovers that wouldn't be economically viable for any exploitation, even in a crafty way, so to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u19	Thank you very much. And we move on to the next question. This question will be asked by Members and, in principle, by the Member of the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition, Mr Ireneusz Raś, and it is on the exclusion of the raw material part from the ArcelorMittal Poland SA since 1 September 2019. This question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Enterprise and Technology, Mr Marcin Ociepa, is responsible under the authority of the Minister of State. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To be honest, we were surprised in Cracow by the sudden decision of ArcelorMittal in April about plans to put out a large furnace in the Mittal branch of Cracow. This concerns a very important case for the city due to employment, but due to a certain steel tradition, which the city of Krakow has. The best mining and steel centre in Poland is located in Kraków. In 2015, the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party adopted the programme of Silesia 2.0. He had a deal with Mittal for excise duty reduction. As a result, further steps were to be taken in terms of compensation for energy-intensive companies, but Mittal, in return, committed himself to invest, also to invest in this branch of the Krakow steelworks. He made it happen. For more than 200 million he made an investment in the cold mill. We are very concerned about this situation. This applies to 6,000. families. $3,000. employees today work directly in the steelworks and 3,000. employees in companies cooperating with the steelworks. This is a very bad signal. I think the government slept through the conversations. He left these companies with this problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Energy without reaction. He did not follow the timetables adopted by Mr.Matthew Morawiecki, because in the first quarter there was to be a decision on compensation. There isn't. Your government records show you slept through it. As a result, Mittal makes a decision to be extinguished, they believe that time, but this decision by all experts is a decision which will result in the end of the steel industry in Krakow. That is the opinion of experts, not politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u21	Minister, I ask you to answer the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u22	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We take the issue concerning the announcements of ArcelorMittal in relation to the further activity of the factory branch in Krakow, deadly serious. Indeed, for us, the issue of the functioning of energy-intensive industries has been raised as a strategic issue for a very simple reason. Today, this industry is experienced and must face many difficult challenges that are global in nature. Firstly, we are witnessing global disturbances in the world steel market. There is an increase in the price of CO2 allowances which have a direct impact on this situation and also with high electricity costs. All of this makes this sector really face particular challenges. That is why we are in constant dialogue with industry, including with this economic entity that we are talking about today, within the Tripartite Group on Energy-intensive Industries, but also a separate team on energy-intensive industries has been set up as an ancillary body for the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology. To answer the question that you have put in writing, Members, I would like to say that we are constantly taking part in this dialogue. We have set ourselves a very concrete goal and we are gradually achieving it. Of course, some go faster, others go slower. He spoke about the issue of compensation for energy-intensive industries, which we consider to be fundamental. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology established last year prepared a draft law which was adopted by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers on 6 June this year. The Permanent Committee recommends that this draft law be adopted by the Council of Ministers at its meeting on 18 June and I expect the Council of Ministers to adopt this document. He's tough, that's why it took so long. It required inter-ministerial arrangements, it required a balance of many points of substance, but it also required dialogue with the European Commission. I would also like to say here that, although we are still at the stage of the government path, the project is already in the prenotification process in the European Commission, so that we do not have any surprises here as regards subsequent decisions within the remit of the European Commission. We are therefore determined to have this bill adopted in this term of office. There are not many Sejm meetings anymore, but please kindly, we will ask the High House if only the Council of Ministers accepts this document, for its adoption as soon as possible. The project sets out the rules and modalities for the granting and calculation of the amount of public aid for the transfer of costs for the purchase of emission allowances within the meaning of the Law on the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme to the price of electricity used for the production of products in energy-intensive sectors or sub-sectors. The decision of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office is important in this law. These compensations will be granted by decision of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. The bill foresees that in 2020 and 2021 approximately PLN 2 billion will be allocated for the payment of these compensations. I wanted to point out that we are witnesses, participants, also in a global dimension, something that some people call a trade war. We're trying to define because we're a government. it's diplomatic and we're talking about the tensions surrounding the development of a new trade order in the world. To put it simply: Us on this subject, in our discussion, concerns the American decision to impose duties on constant and aluminum with the policy of the European Union, but not only from other parts of the world, which makes this supply chain, which ArcelorMittal is an important part of. The procedure that we can implement is closely linked to the European Union because our membership of the European Union assumes that trade policy is the responsibility of the European Union. And here, in an ongoing dialogue with the European Commission, we are shaping Europe-America relations and we are considering issues in detail, for example. protective proceedings, which are actually governed by the rules of the World Trade Organisation. Finally, I wanted to refer - because here a specific question has already been asked - to the program 2.0 for Silesia and western Małopolska. The programme for Silesia assumes investments for a total amount of PLN 55 billion. As at the end of 2018, either has been implemented or 671 individual projects with a total value of over PLN 9 billion are implemented. As a result of the investments carried out, companies plan to create around 3800 new jobs in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u23	Thank you. Mr Raś wants to ask an additional question, which is why Mr Ireneusz Raś is on the stand. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to bring up a thread that's a little bit next door, I think it goes beyond the question, but maybe this will help with the negotiations with ArcelorMittal. In the last years of work of the voivodeship office in Krakow during the term of our government PO - PSL voivode Miller came up with the idea to convert the land with ArcelorMittal. This was to be based on the fact that a State special purpose company would be set up for the conversion of ArcelorMittal's perpetual land use law into property rights... ArcelorMittal wanted to give you almost 400 ha, which he owned as an establishment, for such an operation. This also raises the cost of ArcelorMittal's production today, because they have to pay taxes, and if there was a conversion, we would have gotten land for industrial investment for the state. That's what it was supposed to be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Return to this idea, because your voivode of this company, a company that was also created with academic background, has put in a state of liquidation. Go back to talking to ArcelorMittal about it, too, but talk to the main owner today to put off the decision to put out the big oven. If he doesn't, both our efforts and yours will be late for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u25	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, of course, I must refer to political suggestions, although I am trying not to respond to the Member's suggestions. The fact is that we have an unprecedentedly in-depth dialogue with the energy-intensive industry in Poland. I think that many cases have been resolved, and soon further cases will be resolved in favour of this industry, and thus also in favour of the Polish economy, thanks to the Compensation Act, as well as through our commitment, despite the global situation in this market. I think we can be proud of it here in many cases. Of course, there are challenges that we are discussing today. We'll face them. We are, I assure you, also in the dialogue with ArcelorMittal on his future business decisions. On the other hand, when it comes to the issue of the parcel, I am not prepared to answer the Member at once, but this is an interesting suggestion. I'll look into it. It goes a little beyond our ministry's competence, but I'm gonna look into it and we're definitely gonna want to get back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u27	Thank you very much. So let's move on to the next question. This question will be asked by Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz Club15, on high energy prices for the energy industry. It is addressed to the Minister of Energy and will respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr Tomasz Dąbrowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll be more specific because that's where the little mistake sneaked in. It is not the energy industry, it is the energy-intensive industry in Poland, it is the high energy prices for the energy-intensive industry. Here the point is that for energy trading to be transparent, it should concern all the energy produced, including the one that is in the internal market between companies, it is about production, distribution and trade. In general, it would be advisable to make it look like a stock trading market. Then we avoid large price differences and later - large operating costs for companies that cannot benefit from this trade, the internal market. In Poland, in the case of industry, we now have the most expensive energy in Europe. The Freight Energy Exchange should be a trading place for all electricity produced, excluding self-generation, i.e. its own sources of energy generation for consumers. And now the situation is that in relation to the previous period, when the electricity price for the energy-intensive industry was PLN 170.175, at present we are oscillating around PLN 280. The previous question concerned the possible extinction of a large furnace in Krakow. The analogous situation is e.g. in the Swanworks, where workers are already on leave and waiting for the Ministry to act quickly, decisively, to restart production. There is great social concern about jobs and the collapse of the steel industry, also in Silesia. I therefore call very strongly for a response to make economic viability possible [[♪ The bell ♪]] Energy-intensive industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u29	Thank you, sir. I would like an answer from Minister Tomasz Dąbrowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For some time now, the Ministry of Energy has explained issues concerning energy prices both in Poland and in Europe on the wholesale market and on the retail market in its various segments. I'm gonna try and put it back together synthetically. what is most important for a proper understanding of the functioning of the entire market. The first key element for the electricity market, which I would like to mention, is the way in which the transaction is concluded. That's what I'm talking about. Mr Sitarski asked in his speech. Electricity trading in Poland takes place on the stock market operated by the Freight Exchange of Energy, the balancing market operated by the transmission system operator, bilateral contracts between the manufacturer and the trading company, as well as in direct contracts between the manufacturer and the connected end-user where the so-called end-user is used. the direct line. The transaction structure in percentage terms is as follows: approx. 68% all sales represent sales in bilateral contracts, about 24% are sales on the stock market, about 6% - sales on the balancing market, around 2% constitutes direct sales to electricity consumers. The situation in the way electricity is sold significantly changed the law passed last year - in November 2018. It introduced an increased stock exchange obligation. This regulation has allowed electricity prices to be marketed in the wholesale market as from 2019. The effects of implementing this law will be known after the end of 2019, when all the statistics will be collected and all the contracts completed. The Act obliged manufacturers to sell all the energy generated by the stock exchange. Another key element is the issue of electricity prices on the wholesale market. I will start by comparing energy prices on the wholesale market in the European Union to those in selected countries outside the European Union. The international comparison shows that the real wholesale prices of electricity in the Union are higher than in the United States, Canada or Russia, but lower than in China, Japan, Brazil and Turkey. These are the main economic directions that we compare with when we talk about products sold on global markets. Comparing electricity prices on the wholesale market in Poland to prices in other countries of the European Union, it can be said that our market is quite good. According to data published by the European Commission's Energy Directorate in 2018, the average energy price on the wholesale market in Poland was EUR 57,6 per MWh. In a number of EU countries in 2018, the price of electricity was higher than in Poland. In France, the price was higher by EUR 5.4, in Italy by EUR 11. There are only a few countries where the price was lower, but the differences are minor. In Germany, the wholesale market price was EUR 52,7 per MWh, i.e. about EUR 5 less than in Poland. However, we are talking about a wholesale price which is not the same as the end-user's: whether it's at the retail customer's, or at a large customer's consumption of large amounts of energy. Between the wholesale price and the end-user price, there is a fundamental difference - there are also different charges, taxes or policy financing elements. As a result, households in Poland pay less than households in Germany, although the wholesale price in Germany is lower than the wholesale price in Poland. While remaining for a while at wholesale electricity prices in Europe, I would like to stress that in 2018 electricity prices were rising across Europe on stock exchanges. This situation was not only about Poland, but about Europe as a whole. Among the main price-setting factors affecting electricity prices, the costs of CO2 allowances and fuel costs should be identified. The obligation to purchase emission allowances is the main element of EU climate policy. In 2017, the average price of CO2 allowances was EUR 5 per tonne, reaching a maximum value of EUR 25 I would also like to draw attention to the intensive work carried out in Europe to create a single electricity market, i.e. to bring together markets - the working name of such activities is Market Coupling - which would concern both the day-to-day market and the day-to-day market. As a result, electricity prices on wholesale markets would align to the same level in the Member States in such a way that the equilibrium price on this market would be a price for markets which are so combined. However, large countries, such as Poland, do not want to make the economy dependent [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only from imported energy. Poland also focuses on building its own sources of production, as this ensures energy security and the possibility of avoiding the risks arising from electricity imports.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u31	Thank you. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Energy Tomasz Dąbrowski: What I said concerns the wholesale market. The differences in prices on this market do not translate into the same differences in prices on the retail market. Thank you. Mr Sitarski will ask the additional question again. And let me remind you that the question is about high energy prices for the energy industry and... It's just like I read it before. You're welcome. Minister, if you would excuse the speaker so that you can ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u32	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Thank you very much, it was informative when it comes to the energy market in Europe and Poland, but we still do not have a specific answer to the question of how the government intends to change the current extremely difficult situation of the steelworks in Poland. Non-functioning, too high prices. How much time will be taken radically, I hope, immediate action, so that these energy prices for the steelworks are beneficial enough for the production to be launched and not extinguished? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u33	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, of course, the issue of steel is often raised here. In the previous question it was signaled as well. Firstly, it is necessary to ensure that the wholesale market and consequently the retail market function in a smooth manner. The point is that the price that is being created in this market is the right price and not the price that is affected by, for example, the resulting action. from a price agreement or from some concerted practices in this market. So the first thing we need to do is to sort out the market from this side, so that what's happening in this market is right. For this purpose, e.g. a law has been passed which introduced an obligation to sell all the energy produced on the stock exchange by all manufacturers so that all energy hits directly to the market. Directly, i.e. without any intermediaries who would have an additional opportunity to date or agree on different practices in order to influence the increase in this price. In addition, a number of measures have been introduced to ensure that this market is able to operate smoothly. The point is that this large amount of energy would go to the market and remove all the restrictions that would exist on it so that this price would reflect the market situation as best as possible. This one, among other things. amended the price limits on day-ahead and day-to-day markets in order to allow for this corridor of possible price fluctuations at a time when costs should fall. And at the moment it is possible to even have negative prices if such a situation on the market had occurred, i.e. in a given unit of time excess production could have caused a negative price. Also, the change in price limits on technical markets, mainly in the balancing market. This is the real-time market, the proper functioning of which really determines the proper functioning of subsequent markets. And right now these price limits are at a plus minus 50,000. PLN per MWh, i.e. the possibility of a completely free development of the equilibrium price on the market. In addition, possibilities were introduced to use the demand side's response, i.e. so-called. DSR. The transmission system operator already offered in 2013 the possibility to sell it such a service, i.e. to reduce demand when needed. This is of course addressed mainly to energy-intensive industries, which have the possibility to reduce demand depending on the characteristics of their production. This solution is maintained and will function in the coming years. And another thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the introduction of a mechanism to ensure capacity adequacy so that possible shortages do not result in an increase in electricity prices. This was passed by law, the first auctions were carried out last year and now we will have the effects of the act. The first year of delivery is 2021. These indirect costs for CO2 emissions were still mentioned, mentioned in the previous question, but I'm not developing it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u35	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. This question will be asked by Members of Modern Affairs, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska and Mr Mirosław Suchoń, on the financial problems in hospital after the introduction of the hospital network and the lack of availability of specialist doctors in many areas. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in this Ministry by Mr Maciej Miłkowski. She starts asking questions to Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the hospital situation after the reform. The debt of the Polish health system has reached the highest level in 11 years. This is what the costs of a flat-rate reform show. The liquidity problems are caused, among others. the lack of financial security for rising labour costs, the media, unrealistic valuations of medical procedures and the amount of lump sum granted to hospitals, which precisely does not take into account this avalanche increase in fixed costs at all. The Resort, with knowledge of the sharp increase in debt, is not taking action to counter this crisis. What is the Ministry's plan not only to stop the continued debt of hospitals that are going - in fact, today - into a spiral of debts, but above all to make them fully profitable? Hospitals also have a lot of problems with the means to carry out the investment tasks necessary to improve the quality of the services provided. Several dozen facilities are stuck in quite expensive expansions, which aim to adapt to the current requirements and to improve the quality of the services provided. This is the case, among other things. in a county hospital in my hometown of Gniezno. I'd like to ask if the Ministry knows the problem or if it's going to do something about it. I must admit that the Old Man of Law and Justice made a decision in the previous term to expand the hospital. The cost amounted to PLN 160 million and only 40 million were secured. Hence the continuation of this expansion, I am talking about the cost, including termination, is quite expensive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last question: Is it true that the purpose of the ministry is to reduce the number of hospitals in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u37	Thank you. I invite Minister Maciej Miłkowski to answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u38	Dear Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you so much for the questions. Ministry of Health in the recent period, i.e. After the entry into force of the hospital network, it continues to increase funding for hospitals. This is particularly evident this year. For 2019, the healthcare cost plan provides for an increase in the cost of benefits. They will be PLN 8.4 billion higher than last year and will amount to PLN 89.4 billion. In the case of hospital treatment, the increase will amount to PLN 3.7 billion, which will certainly affect the financial situation of hospitalization. Several amendments to the financial plan have already been made in 2019. The costs in this area increased by about PLN 6 billion, including 3.2 billion for hospital treatment. Therefore, the President of the National Health Fund once again proposed to amend the President's regulations on the valuation of health benefits. The expected effect for the second half of the year is about 711 million, including for hospital emergency and emergency rooms - over PLN 50 million. These are important increases that make healthcare providers better financially in terms of their budgets. At the same time, in the Ministry of Health, in the National Health Fund there are two directions for the transfer of additional funds. One direction is additional health benefits to reduce the most vulnerable queues that are in the health care system. The second direction I spoke about is the increase in the cost of health services. As regards the increase in the cost of health services, in the first period, i.e. since 1 January, there have been increased benefits for patients in the field of internal diseases and general surgery. This led to an annual income of over 700 million healthcare providers. It's about these procedures that are closest to the patients, which is in county hospitals. Since July this year. there will be a systemic change of all types of health benefits in different ranges depending on the type of benefits. For some benefits it will not be, if this has been recently valued by the medical technology assessment agency at 3%, 5%, 10% or even 20%. It is about certain types of health benefits. That's what it's gonna do. From 1 July to the end of this year we have a total of over PLN 900 million, which will result in over PLN 3 billion next year, i.e. after these appropriations have been translated into the next year. The Ministry carries out non-financial benefits. There is a realization of waiting lists by verifying indications on patient benefits, e.g. in case of cataract surgery. There is no possibility of double entering the waiting list and being on several waiting lists in the e-direction system. We have made it possible for us to provide benefits. It's about unlimited performance of cataract services, computer scans. Hospitals can use this to secure, shorten queues waiting for health benefits. As far as these benefits are concerned, the queues have decreased significantly by 30% by 50%. We estimate that in the case of the most needed benefits for the elderly, it is about cataracts, to a large extent this queue can be abolished. As far as other very important benefits for older people are concerned, so that they can move normally, they can walk normally, i.e. the provision of endoprotesoplasty, there is a problem with performing in front of healthcare providers. About 10%. annual increases in the number of benefits provided for non-financial, organisational reasons. There is no desire to increase the amount of benefits provided by healthcare providers due to the insufficient number of doctors who are. We carry out additional price increases all the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have focused on not buying benefits, not buying branches, not increasing the amount of benefits, but maximizing the value of benefits, because this reduces the debt of medicinal entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u39	Thank you. The additional question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I will ask a question basically about my region - Bielsko-Biała, Cieszyn, Pszczyna and Żywiec - although these problems that are with us are also characteristic for the whole of Poland. Minister, in the last two years, the lines to the specialists have increased by 1/3, although you promised to be shorter. For example, the average waiting time e.g. for an MRI in the Śląskie voivodship, which includes my region, it is up to 135 days, and it is urgent, which shows that these queues are abstract. And the question is: What actions is the Ministry going to take to stop this trend and even reverse it, so that these queues are shorter, so that the Polish people have access to specialists in time, and not that this deadline would be when it is too late? And, Minister, back to the issue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] financial - you did not say anything about investment issues. Will there be additional funds just for investment and debt in cases such as the hospital in Gniezno referred to, on which the PiS head made irresponsible decisions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u41	I ask you, Minister, to answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u42	As far as waiting queues are concerned, those you have said about, in the case of magnetic resonance and CT scans, the waiting times have significantly decreased. In the case of magnetic resonance imaging and in cases of urgency in Poland at the end of 2017, the waiting time was 94 days, dropped to 55 days, i.e. 39 days. In cases of stable waiting time was 195 days and at the end of 2018, 136 days, while the number of waiting people decreased by 72 thousand, to 268 thousand. at the end of last year. In terms of CT, since this benefit is often given in urgent cases, the waiting times are significantly shorter. As regards the urgency procedure, the average waiting time for the end of 2017 was 25 days and shortened to 14 days and, in stable cases, from 70 days to 41 days. Now, from 1 April, the order of the President of the NFZ has entered into force, according to which the NFZ pays for benefits made without limit in the different types of health benefits. The individual branch directors analysed the situation, whether an additional competition is needed, and announced additional competitions for additional benefits for certain branches, and in other cases they discussed the increase in the number of benefits provided. As far as the situation in Silesia is concerned, it is monitored. As you know, in 2018 there was a change of hospital operator in Pszczyna - the old town took over the operation of this hospital. We are currently discussing the situation of the hospital in Żywiec. The director of the branch is holding meetings in this area, in connection with the reorganisation changes of the hospital in Żywiec and the beginning of the activity in the framework of the first in Poland p.p.p. - the hospital was built by an external investor. When it comes to investing in a hospital in Gniezno, I do not know the situation. An amendment to the IOWISZ health care investment law was adopted, so the project had to go through IOWISZ system and it had to be approved for expansion. I do not know the situation of the hospital, but in writing I will be happy to answer this question about the situation of the hospital in Gniezno. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as total health investments are concerned, it is the health finance system, so-called. 6% , is so constructed that the funds are fully secured - and the payment for the benefits of the NFZ, and investments, and financing by resorts, e.g. Ministry of Health; this is about providing services to clinical hospitals, training doctors and specialists. So that all of this includes investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u43	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u44	Minister, then, since you do not know the situation of the hospital in Gniezno, I would like to make an appointment, perhaps with the representatives of the Old Town, for a meeting and talk. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Please, welcome.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u45	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Members of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, namely Alicia Chybicka and Aldona Młyńczak. Question on the dramatic state of health care in Poland, addressed to the Minister of Health. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will answer. Please, the first question, Mrs Alicia Chybicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We are getting more and more signals about the dramatic state of health care in Poland. Why do sick people die in the E.R.? Death in the S.O.R. affects young people, people who should be alive. On 1 July, in 2 weeks' time, something like a mandatory triage enters into force. This mandatory triage includes and means: red - instant help, orange - waiting time up to 10 minutes, yellow - up to 60 minutes, green - up to 120 minutes, blue - up to 240 minutes. 240 minutes is four hours. Minister, at the moment after 8, 10, the sick are waiting for 12 hours. Those who were dead, that's what they expected. What has the Ministry changed in the SORs that sticking cards like in the war, even though we have peace, is supposed to heal this situation and make those sick people not still die in those SORs? The situation of seniors throughout Poland is disastrous. In Poland we have 900 geriatric beds, Tomasz Kostka, a geriatric specialist has been alerting for a long time that something needs to be done in this matter, because there are many illnesses in the internist and surgical departments especially during the Christmas and pre-Christmas periods. Another problem is that the number of pharmacies is falling, and it is becoming more difficult to supply any medicine when you queue to specialists. The only pharmacy in the village was closed in 83 villages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally, low wages. In Wroclaw in the military hospital, all the rescuers have made pronouncements - speaking of this triage - currently there is paralysis of this hospital since yesterday or the day before yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u47	I ask you, Minister, to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u48	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation in health care is indeed a difficult one, I think it is a problem for all of us, the challenge faced by previous governments, facing the current government and also facing the next one, but this is the result of the long-term negligence that has taken place in health care. For several years, the Law and Justice have been appealed to the rulers of that time - including the Law and Justice. to pay attention to the loss of medical staff as well as to the deep underfinancing. Unfortunately, it is regrettable to say that these reactions, these expectations, have gone into emptiness, no action has been taken, and that is why at the moment there has been such a accumulation of problems that we face, but the current government has been taking concrete steps to improve the situation for several years. The first point is to guarantee proper funding. You know very well that we have spent and are still spending too little on health care. In 2014, we spent 4.13% gross domestic product, at the moment we will already reach 5%, and with the law adopted by the current government in 2024 it will be 6% gross domestic product. What's the effect? That this year we will already have about PLN 100 billion in the system. In 2015, it was 72 billion PLN, so there was an increase in health expenditure by 30% and if we had not, it would have been practically necessary to close hospitals by now. Another problem - staff. Nothing was done in this area, little was done, nursing schools were closed, places were reduced in the medical department. It is the current government that has created new schools. In the last 4 years, ladies and gentlemen, we have increased the number of universities where nurses are trained, from 74 to 98, i.e. 24 new universities have been established in the country because we support this process, transfer funds to finance student places, and increase the number of students in nursing departments. The same is true in medical departments, new departments have been created, as well as additional funding for grants, for the creation of new places. And we already have results, ladies and gentlemen, for example. In 2014, we had 218 thousand in Poland. The nurses, and now we have 233,000. Nurses. Thanks to our actions, among others. increased funding, the transfer of additional financial stream for nurses and midwives we have stopped the phenomenon of economic emigration. That's enough. The nurses are going back to the country. That's the truth, they're not leaving, they're going back to the country. Last year, we registered more applications in nursing chambers than there were graduates who graduated from nursing schools. The effects of these actions are ours. The same is true of doctors - we increase the number of places in universities, we increase the number of residences. We now have more than 10,000 in the system compared to 2014. Doctors more than they've ever been before. Of course, we have spent a lot of money on investment, over 1 000 200 thousand in the recent period. zł, we have guaranteed financing of important investments, we have supported them both by means of the state budget and by means which were at the disposal of the State and came from the European Union. It's a tough situation at the S.O.R. Of course, there is a difficult situation in the SORs, which is why we are reacting, but I would like to remind you that in 2017 the Minister of Health developed good practices to improve the reception of patients in the SORs and were to be applied by the directors. Unfortunately, not in all hospitals are used. Where they are used, there are no such situations as the ladies were talking about here. Therefore, we are now introducing a legislative act in the form of a preliminary assessment of the patient's health. And don't confuse that, don't compare it to other circumstances that have a negative context. This is a preliminary assessment of the patient's health and on this basis we will be eligible as long as this patient can expect maximum. Of course, we will also introduce a re-evaluation obligation, a re-evaluation of health. We are introducing minimum times when patients should be admitted, but additional measures will be provided at the same time. At the moment, work is already underway at the NFZ to improve funding for hospital emergency services and I would like to stress that in the last 4 years we have increased funding for hospital emergency services by 50%. These are facts. You can ask for data from the National Health Fund and you'll see it. The funding has increased. We are planning another increase, but we will require that patients who should be admitted immediately be admitted immediately. However, there is a problem with patients who are asking for help in hospital emergency services [[♪ The bell ♪]] due to primary healthcare dysfunction. We'll have a proposition for them, too. There is a draft regulation, which will soon be put into legal order, and let us hope that this will improve the availability of health or life-threatening benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u49	Stay here, Minister, it'll be quicker. And Mrs Aldona Młyńczak is asking a question from the parliamentary jury. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u50	Dear Marshal! Minister! We're talking about a dramatic state of health care, that's the second question. Although the Minister is calming down, it seems to us that it is not so good, because there are financial problems, lack of access to doctors and still very much the lack of nurses and auxiliary staff. And so on. in Wroclaw in May 2019, that is, a month ago, due to the lack of staff of nurses, among others. There was a real risk of closing one of the hospital's departments in the Clinic of Hospital Transplantology, Oncology and Paediatric Hematology. Thanks to this action, thanks to the actions of Prof. Chybicka, who is sitting next to you, and also your director of the clinical hospital in Wrocław succeeded, this branch was not closed, but it was a really big action. Not everywhere, you can't always do this kind of thing to [[♪ The bell ♪]] hire the right number of nurses. For example, there are about 70 nurses missing in this clinical hospital. It's all over Poland anyway. My question is: What is the number of vacancies in nursing positions in hospitals in Wroclaw, Lower Silesia, Poland? What further action is the Ministry going to take, in addition to those mentioned by the Minister, in 2019 and in the following years, to increase the number of nursing staff in hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u51	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u52	Thank you very much for that question. However, if you ladies are preparing a question, I would advise you to rely on facts. Thank you very much, Professor, for pointing out the problem, and we have the hard data from the hospital sent by your director, who you are referring to. According to the information provided by your director, there are no risks to the implementation of health services provided at the Clinic of Transplantology of Szpiku, Oncology and Hematology of Children's Cape Hope. The number of nursing staff working in the children's clinic ensures the safety of small patients. According to the standards laid down by the Minister of Health, and they determine the demand, the clinic should have 65.8% nursing jobs, and currently 84 nurses are employed. Therefore, the issue of a pointless lack of nurses is the organisational issue of the persons managing this hospital. That's the information we received from the hospital director. Of course, you can question it. We, through the intervention of the Minister of Health, have followed the media reports and have received such information, which illustrates this phenomenon that you are talking about. What kind of action are we supposed to take? That's what I've already started to inform you about. 24 more schools. Further schools are already being prepared and will be launched in the country. At the same time, we improve the pay of nurses. Thanks to this, nurses work in the health system and return to the system. Currently signed agreements guarantee the inclusion in the basic salary of PLN 1100, and now from July 1 - PLN 1200, which makes this remuneration attractive. More and more nurses are starting to work. That's enough, we've got more and more eager to study in nurse and midwife. We are also introducing programmes aimed at making training in the profession of nurse and midwife more attractive, among others. We introduce the possibility for students of the second year at Bachelor's level additionally a scholarship of PLN 800 per month. We also want to facilitate the process of occupational adaptation after graduation, because we know that this is a particularly difficult time for a nurse who enters into professional life. We also propose a continuation of 1 000 financial support. zł, next to the salary which he will receive in a given therapeutic entity. That's $1,000. The nurse will receive for 2 years. It can use them for additional courses, specializations or other elements that will make it easier for it to adapt professionally in this hospital, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The one he works at. In addition, we are taking steps to increase competence. The National Health Fund will soon finance nursing advice, which will be contracted separately. It summarises those powers which nurses have and which have not been used so far, such as the ordination of medicines or the possibility of prescribing, directing to tests, i.e. in the framework of this advice there will be such benefits. We would like nurses to take advantage of their opportunities, have a chance to develop, earn decently, and this is where the current government is headed. [[Applause]] [[Your Marshal, if I may...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u53	That is not an option, my fellow Member. [[One word. The minister says we have the wrong data, but...]] Mrs... [[Yes?]] There's no time for comment here. This is not the stage of the sitting. [[I understand, but the conflict... it's just that the case has been resolved positively and we're happy about it, Minister, which doesn't mean there are positive solutions everywhere. Thank you.]] You're welcome. Let's move on to the next question. Members of the Law and Justice will ask a question on the implementation of the Law on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families, addressed to the Minister of Health. Minister Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko will also answer. The questions begin with Anna April. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u54	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In November 2016, the Sejm passed a law on the support of pregnant women and families. Almost 2 months later, on January 1, 2017, the law entered into force. As you can see, it has been two and a half years, and we can seek a summary of the functioning of this law and all the good that this law does, how it supports both pregnant women and families. In this connection, I have a question to the Minister: Please tell me which health benefits under this law most often benefit pregnant women, what medical support has already been spent on and how much money has already been spent on the implementation of the tasks resulting from this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u55	The question will be added by Mr Piotr Uściński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u56	Minister, I still wanted to ask about palliative care for children who were born seriously ill. Perinatal hospital was already in Poland before the introduction of this law. I wanted to ask what cooperation with these hospices looks like and whether the number of perinatal hospices in Poland is increasing. As if you could say so. And I'm gonna ask if the program's gonna continue to develop. Do you see any possibility that you could be even more supportive of families expecting a sick child? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u57	Minister Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko will answer these questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The concern for the family, for the children, is a priority of this government, which has been proven many times. The current government has prepared a series of laws aimed at supporting families, children. When we talk about family, we mean a multigenerational family, i.e. children, working people, but also seniors. The Lifelong Programme adopted by the Act in 2016 offers concrete opportunities to support families who learn about the health problem of the conceived child. This situation is very difficult. This is a difficult event in the family's life and at that time the family expects support from the rulers. This law brings concrete solutions that have been designed. And so, among other things. 18 reference centres were established in the country on the basis of this law in the last few years coordinating the care of the pregnant woman. These centres are generally located in voivodship cities near high-specialist centres. As part of their actions, women or families who learn about their child's health problems can get professional help, including prenatal diagnostics. They are also familiar with the possibility of treatment, intervention still in the fetal life, as well as receiving information on how care will be guaranteed after birth. The aim of these centres is to prepare the family for the adoption of a child with health problems. And as we know, we also often diagnose fatal defects, so it is also a matter of preparing the family to part with the child. And that is the purpose of these coordination centres. Coordination centres cooperate with both specialist, district and primary health care hospitals. So any woman who's been diagnosed with a child's health problem has the possibility of being cared for or run by a coordination centre. On a national scale, as I said, we have 18 of these centers. Total benefits were granted for 294 492, 880 000. zł. These are measures that have been transferred to coordination centres that are dedicated to the care of a woman with a difficult pregnancy. Prenatal diagnostics. As part of our family support, we have facilitated access to prenatal diagnostics. There are criteria for when and on what basis this diagnosis is performed. In general, each pregnant woman after 35 years of age has the possibility to perform an examination e.g. genetic, but also women before this age, who were diagnosed - either in the family - with defects in children or possibly with ultrasound findings. This is already a qualifying criterion for prenatal diagnostics and such treatments are performed, unlimited, with a growing number every year. Currently, 106 360 women have been included in prenatal diagnostics. This diagnosis has been done for so many people. The next step in the care provided by the Law is the child's co-ordinated care. When a child is born with health problems, care is provided by a child's coordination centre. These centres carry out tasks related to the coordination of the entire treatment and rehabilitation process of these children, including psychological support. As part of child care services coordinated in 2018, 521 families with children with health problems were provided with benefits. The National Health Fund has allocated over 806 thousand to this task. zł. Perinatal care, palliative care. The Member has asked for this care. We know that some of the flaws are fatal. Children have no chance of survival or pregnancy ends early. At the same time, after giving birth, parents have to part with their children. This is a very difficult situation, therefore these hospices or perinatal palliative care and families have the opportunity to prepare for this very difficult event in their lives. There is psychological support, psychiatric support, as well as specialist care related to the continuation of pregnancy, as well as postpartum care. This type of benefit was provided by 341 families in 2018. The National Health Fund allocated PLN 418 626. In addition, psychological support is also funded for women with a difficult pregnancy, with health problems so that [[♪ The bell ♪]] provide them with psychological care. This was used by 430 people in 2018. In total, the National Health Fund financed almost 50,000. benefits in this area. So that as far as these benefits are concerned, the organisational structure to guarantee easy access to those or families with problems we are discussing has been created such an organizational structure. There's a partnership here with county hospitals. And the National Health Fund has also committed funds to this. In total, 139 348 families benefited from the Life Programme in 2018 because we are talking about the family problem and the benefits of 374 478 thousand were financed. zł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u59	That's where we're gonna put the dot. The additional question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u60	Dear Minister, You also talked about the problem of psychological care, because it seems like the hardest moment for a mother and for a father is when they find out that a child can be ill, can be disabled. I have such signals that maybe it's not exactly consistent with this standard - this psychological aid, full information, what parents can do, how they go on or treatment or care at this point. Are you, as the Ministry, monitoring this? Are there any procedures, standards of conduct for a doctor when he gives such difficult information to a family, a mother, a father? Well, I guess it depends a lot on that moment, too. Then, as parents get used to this situation, you know, they work, but is there any monitoring here, or are there any standards in this area? And whether, if the child is already tested, is sick, is taking treatment e.g. Already at the stage of fetal life? Thanks.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u61	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u62	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I'll start with the second question. As far as intrauterine therapy is concerned, of course we do not limit it in any way. And somewhere in the media space, there's information that we're restricting access to prenatal research, genetic research. There are absolutely no restrictions here. As I said, there are certain criteria, but practically any person can perform these tests if there are indications. On the other hand, we do these tests and we want to do as many of these tests as possible, because medicine is already developing so quickly that new treatment techniques, new treatments are being developed, and we can help these little children already in their fetal life in Poland. We are one of the few countries in the world where this branch of medicine, or intrauterine therapy, is developing. We perform, among others. procedures in children in fetal life, for example in the case of cerebrospinal hernia or cardiological procedures. Very often, as a result of this intrafoetal intervention, a completely healthy child is born, who would have no chance of survival or would have major problems after birth. And this early intra-foetal intervention gives him a chance to live or creates better conditions to continue treatment. Thus, 1,155 intrauterine treatments were performed in 2014 and 2017 for a total amount of over 5800 thousand. zł. In 2019 we already have 48 of these treatments carried out for the amount of over PLN 2 million. On the other hand, as regards the issue of monitoring the implementation of these powers, ladies and gentlemen, from 1 January this year there has been a new standard of organizational care for perinatal care, where specific duties of doctor, midwife who takes care of pregnant women are indicated. There are, among others. These are the tasks you are talking about. The standard has the rank of a regulation of the Minister of Health, i.e. it is a universally applicable legal act. Contracts signed with the National Health Fund clearly state that the provider is obliged to provide benefits in accordance with current legislation, i.e. to apply the standard. Who is responsible for the implementation? According to this standard, voivodeships, the National Health Fund, as well as the Institute of Mother and Child will be eligible. The standard has been in place since this year, so we'll have the results here soon. On the other hand, the person directly responsible for the performance of the benefits in accordance with the contractual provisions shall be the Director of the medicinal entity. If this is not done, then it is the right person to ask it or to ask it to intervene. In conclusion, I would like to stress that indeed [[♪ The bell ♪]] According to this law, more and more families who collide with this difficult problem have support. Of course, we're still designing modeling this program because it's not perfect, but we started this, and I think it's going in the right direction. Mrs. Marshal! If you don't mind, I'd like to call on everyone to donate blood because we're short of blood. We have more and more events in the country that make the need for this medicine that saves lives because the blood is a medicine more and more. I would therefore like to appeal to all of you to make a decision on blood donation. It's me this morning. I did. It's a painless procedure, it takes a few minutes, and we can save someone's life with this gift. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u63	Thank you very much. I think we can all join in this appeal. And now we're going to the next question. They will be asked by Members of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, on the actions taken by the President of the Council of Ministers and the services subordinate to him in connection with the public information about possible relationships in Mark F.'s eavesdropping affair with the policies of Law and Justice and the threats that further recordings with the participation of the current Prime Minister will be revealed. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the first Deputy Prosecutor General, national prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski. And Mr Tomasz Semoniak begins his questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Law and Justice Club, in breach of the Seym's custom, did not allow Kukiz15 to have the current information on the wiretap and recent reports by Mr. Falenty, so we, as part of the current questions, want to ask the government that question. Marcin Kierwiński and I are very surprised that Prime Minister Morawiecki is sending a prosecutor here right away because it seems that this case is actually for the prosecutor. We didn't expect it, and we didn't ask it, and we didn't expect it. But given that the prosecutor is a very well-informed person in the realities of Law and Justice, who is in the party headquarters in Nowogrodzka, perhaps he is in fact the right person to answer. We are interested in whether Prime Minister Morawiecki, knowing that he is one of the people being eavesdropped, took any action towards the state services and bodies after entering the government in November 2015 in order to obtain information on the number and content of the eavesdropped conversations with his participation. We remember what the big deal was when one of these conversations was revealed. Question: "Did the Prime Minister, using his position as Prime Minister, speak to the prosecutor, the Attorney General, to the Minister for Special Services about what the prosecution has at its disposal, what the progress of the special forces is like, how Mark Falenty's relations with the policies of PiS he recently wrote about in his letter?" We don't think the case is closed, we don't think the case is one that can be swept under the rug. We expect the State's Attorney to provide us with full knowledge of the State's Attorney's report of the President of the Council of Ministers and the eavesdropping matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the people involved in it and its rulers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u65	The first Deputy Prosecutor General of the National Prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u66	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, Mr. Speaker! I'm really sorry that you have some personal issues with me. As a national prosecutor, I have to meet and talk to different people, with different politicians, with different political options, including the Civic Platform, including the governing party. I do not think this is the place to remind me of my possible contacts or meetings with politicians of various political options. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the information that has recently appeared in the media, regarding Mr Mark F. or the convicted Marek Falenty, the prosecution has for a long time had information related to the writings that Mr Marek F. directed to various types of state bodies for many, many months or even years, ladies and gentlemen, and has spoken on this subject. The revelations presented by Mr Falenta to what you are talking about have already appeared in his explanations in the course of the investigation in which he was accused and then convicted of 84 unlawful registrations of political talks in Owl and Friends. In this case, in which he was given 2 years and 6 months, Mr Marek Falenta in many places in his explanations spoke about the topics you are talking about, and the court, in the justification for its judgment, made it very clear that he considered these explanations to be unreliable, honourable states. Thus, these revelations have already appeared much earlier and have been strongly criticised by the court. It is worth looking at the justification of the District Court in Warsaw. Ladies and gentlemen! Marek Falenta, in addition to the case in which he was convicted legally for two years and six months, has two more cases from prosecution of the prosecutor in two different courts for crimes, among others. There are also four preparatory proceedings in which Mr. Marek F. has the status of suspect. One of these preparatory proceedings is the investigation of the District Prosecutor's Office of Warsaw-Prague, which concerns further recordings which appeared in subsequent months and years, which were illegally registered. At the moment, he has been charged with eight such politicians, public figures, whose conversations were recorded in the restaurant Owl and Friends. The D.A.'s gonna fill in those charges for another two interviews. There are no new evidence or recordings, ladies and gentlemen, all the more so the Prime Minister's talks, the President of the Council of Ministers, or the President of Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen! As for these writings and the revelations that you reveal to Marek Falenta, please bear in mind that from the notification of Mr Radosław Sikorski and patron Giertych at the time of the so-called. The independent prosecutor's office, when you were in charge and you had special services, the Ministry of Home Affairs, the police were being prosecuted, which was, ladies and gentlemen, legally dismissed in 2015, when the Attorney General was not yet Zbigniew Ziobro or the national prosecutor was not me, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking into account what Mr Marek Falenta has said in such letters addressed to various institutions of the state, and I assure the honourable Members that the prosecutors will be hearing the circumstances of the suspect in the investigation of the District Prosecutor's Office in Prague, which will be able to provide explanations in this regard. After these explanations have been made, we will assess their credibility in terms of different circumstances, given that, as for some of them, the court has already assessed their credibility, given the fact that, as you know from the media, Mr. Marek Falenta was in a psychiatric hospital and the prosecutor has extensive documentation of his stay in various mental health institutions, and also taking into account his other public statements, the diwags that appear in the media. It is worth recalling, ladies and gentlemen, the statement on one of the social networks supposedly Mr. Mark F., who wrote: I heard that there is a good sex tape from Western City in Karpacz with the Cowboys of Trzask and Schetin in the lead role. Why don't you let this one go? They say it's poor quality, because white dust was floating everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen! And what did the president of the Civic Platform, Grzegorz Schetyna, say about this incident? He answered: Falenty's entries are absurd, like many other things he said and wrote about Falenta. The policy has made it clear that such a recording does not exist. It is as likely as I was in Karpacz at the rodeo shows with President Kaczyński - ironically Grzegorz Schetyn. Considering, ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the above circumstances, the prosecution will always and everywhere check any information that indicates that there may have been a crime, will verify it and, if necessary, present its findings to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u67	The additional question will be asked by Marcin Kierwiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! Mr. District Attorney, we didn't invite you here. The Sejm didn't invite you here to be a publicist. We invited you to tell you in detail what the Prime Minister's actions were, or the services under the Prime Minister's authority, about the eavesdropping issue, whether the Prime Minister had the knowledge that he could be recorded. And you're talking about Mr. Falenty's Twitter entries. This is just ridiculous. I understand that the fact that you're going to Novargrodzka obliges you to do this kind of sneaking around after a very serious case, but this is just ridiculous. That doesn't go against the importance of the office you're holding. A very specific question. The President of the Republic is being blackmailed that strange information may be revealed, the Prime Minister is being blackmailed. What have you been doing about this for a month? Why is this case so uncomfortable for you that you're pretending she's not here? Who are you covering for? Who are you trying to protect? Why the D.A.'s office, why are the Secret Service acting like they're blind in this case? It's about basic issues of state security. Mr. District Attorney! Please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Imagine that there might be a situation that this tape exists, someone has it. It is your duty to investigate and investigate these matters. It's about state security, not your mocking from the Seymary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u69	National Attorney Bogdan Święczkowski will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u70	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! Screaming won't intimidate me. The D.A.'s office is functioning effectively and efficiently... [[Then tell me what you've done.]] ...from 2016 He's taking action all the time, and you don't need to know everything because there's a secret to the investigation. And you won't know. [[Oh, my God... tell me what you did.]] The prosecution shall act in a transparent and transparent manner, but must maintain the standards resulting from the Code of Criminal Procedure. Just like you. I have said that the prosecution has various types of letters related to Mr Falenty's position, has taken investigative action in this area, and has asked the relevant services to take other actions that I cannot talk about here. It is worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, that at the time of this incident, you have established a special surgical and investigation team. Mr Sienkiewicz reportedly took very intensive and effective action, and he certainly took all the possible actions at that time, which led to the findings of the prosecution and the special forces. [[But, Mr. District Attorney, you're here now.]] On the other hand, I repeat: the Polish state is not as defined by Minister Sienkiewicz in his recording, it is only a state that is effectively acting, taking effective action. These actions are undertaken both in the Polish prosecutor's office and in the Polish special services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u71	Thank you. Let's move on to the next... [[Your Marshal, this is something embarrassing to answer to the High House.]] Mr, the question asked, the answer given. My role is only to coordinate the driving. [[I understand, but...]] On the other hand, I cannot write the content of the speech either in the case of the Member's question or in the case of the reply of the person answering it, so... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Today, because someone else is a national prosecutor and someone else is a general. [[I'd say Mr. District Attorney is fit to be a publicist. Science fiction books.]] Let's move on to the next question. This is a question about the participation of the Territorial Defence Army in flood prevention in the south of the country. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz will answer. Both the basic question and the additional question will be asked by Mr Michał Jach from Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u72	Dear Marshal! Minister! When the Territorial Defence Army was appointed more than 3 years ago, the primary tasks of this new type of Armed Forces were included in addition to the basic tasks of defending state security and cooperating with operational forces in order to eliminate the consequences of natural disasters. And so, despite the fact that the Territorial Defence Forces have not yet reached full combat readiness, it is time to check. In May in the south of Poland high water caused a very serious threat, caused great damage. In addition to the services of the responsible civil sector which are to participate in this, the Territorial Defence Army took part in the elimination of damage, the safeguarding of property and the lives of citizens. Minister! I wanted to ask you a question. I'm asking you to answer them. How many soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army were involved in the elimination of the damage? From which region were the entities involved in the eradication of this disaster? What did the action look like, and how do you assess the activities of the Territorial Defence Forces in the area of the eradication of natural disasters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u73	Thank you. I invite Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. In fact, when we called the Territorial Defence Army to life, we had in mind that they would be soldiers who would not only defend our homeland, us, Poles, in a situation of danger, in the situation of K and W, but would also support local communities when necessary, when the moment comes when human life, human possessions will be threatened. Ladies and gentlemen! Due to adverse weather events in May this year. For the first time, the territorial defence forces have demonstrated practical action during the implementation of crisis management tasks, while fulfilling their motto: "Always ready, always close." They supported local communities, local government and public authorities and emergency services, in particular the fire department: state and voluntary. Actions covered the period from 21 May to 28 May. They began in Lublin Voivodeship with the removal of the effects of the air trumpet, which passed over the villages in the municipalities of Konopnica and Wojciechów around the south of May 21. After less than 4 hours on the site of the disaster, soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army began to assist public administration in assessing the effects of the weather phenomenon and identifying the needs and opportunities for support by forces and resources of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. At the request of the Lublin Voivodeship, the Minister of National Defence decided to separate forces and resources from resources 2. The Lublin Territorial Defence Brigade - the military task force of the Wojciechs, composed of 188 soldiers. The group began operations in the destruction area after a further 2 hours. Support for rescue services to ensure the passage of transport routes, support for State Fire and Volunteer Fire Departments in the removal of fallen trees in the premises, secure electricity supplies to farms and institutions and lighting of the rescue area was carried out for 3 days and ended on 23 May at 3 hours. 15. Ladies and gentlemen! At the request of the Voivods: Podkarpackie, Małopolskie, Silesia and Świętokrzyskie, in accordance with the decision of the Minister of National Defence, the Territorial Defence Army supported public administration and rescue services in the fight against flood risk. In the Podkarpackie Voivodeship for 5 days, from 22 to 27 May, the activities were carried out by the military task force Wadowice, whose composition 3. A total of 356 WOT soldiers were separated by the Podkarpackian Territorial Defence Brigade. In the Małopolskie Voivodship for 5 days, from 22 to 27 May, there was a military task force Radwan separated from 11. The Małopolska Territorial Defence Brigade. A total of 301 territorial defence troops were assigned to the operation. In the Śląskie voivodship two days, from 22 to 23 May, carried out two military task groups: Bielsko-Biała 2 and Bieruń, separated by 13. The Silesian Territorial Defence Brigade, in the strength of 164 soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army. In the Świętokrzyskie voivodship, two military task groups, Sandomierz and Połaniec, separated by 10. The Holy Cross Territorial Defence Brigade and the 2nd. Lublin Territorial Defence Brigade, with a total of 431 soldiers. In total, as part of the flood risk fight, 1252 soldiers were assigned to carry out flood protection tasks, to protect landslides, to transport floodproof materials, to pump out water and to illuminate the areas of operations of the Territorial Defence Army and to remove the effects of the trumpet, 188 soldiers. To sum up, Mr President, seven military task groups, in which 1440 soldiers performed their tasks, have assigned seven task forces to carry out crisis management tasks to assist public administrations and rescue services in addressing the consequences of the adverse weather conditions of the Territorial Defence Army. The vast majority of them were territorial defence soldiers appointed to carry out crisis management tasks. It was 1179 soldiers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u75	Mr Michał Jach will ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u76	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! This information is undoubtedly impressive. Minister! One of the major or perhaps greatest successes of the Ministry of National Defence in this term of office is the appointment and organisation of the Territorial Defence Army. The territorial defence forces, taking part in the action concerning this great tragedy in several voivodships, showed functionality, showed that their existence is undoubtedly needed and during peacetime, and during the time of threat. Minister, how do you assess the professionalism of these soldiers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Would you mind referring to these various statements made in recent years by politicians defaming the Territorial Defence Army in the context of this disaster in which they participated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u77	I ask the Minister to answer the additional questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. The Territorial Defense Service passed the test. They also had this proverbial battle baptism. Let such a visualization be that at the moment of these threats, at the time of the decision to initiate action by the Territorial Defence Forces, 95% responded to the call for deployment of the Home Branches. territorial soldiers of military service. This is a really impressive result. This occurred within 4 hours of the transmission of the information calling for the appearance. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no slightest discussion about the fact that this result is absolutely impressive. These actions are undertaken by the Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces, by General Kukuła, who is with us today in the Seym, who oversees and commands the Territorial Defence Forces. This shows that the Territorial Defence Army is needed, that the Territorial Defence Army has passed the test. The territorial defence forces, even though they are in the formation phase, even though they are in the creation phase, even though they are in the process of gaining operational capacity, are already ready not only for the service of the Republic of Poland but also for the service of another man. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to draw attention to what I did not say in the first part of my speech. It's about the equipment. So much is said about equipment that is used or purchased for the purposes of the Territorial Defence Army. It is worth saying a few words about it. Ladies and gentlemen, along with the soldiers, 66 heavy-duty vehicles, 14 passenger-terpene vehicles, two quads, two sanitary vehicles, boats with outboard engines, 21 generators, 12 lighting sets and additional engineering and sappers such as combustion saws, suits for long-term water work were assigned to the local communities. The use of generators and lighting sets has proved particularly useful in the activities. This equipment prevented, among others. interruptions in electric current supply, which made it possible to minimize the effects of adverse weather events and to enable 24/7 rescue operations to be carried out, which is important. Ladies and gentlemen! The participation of the Territorial Defence Army in flood prevention or in the elimination of the effects of the air trumpet in Lublin was the first practical test of the capacity of this formation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanks to the Territorial Defence Forces it was possible to significantly minimize the effects of floods and storms, which was very positively received by local communities. Once again, there were 1440 soldiers in the Territorial Defence Army involved in these activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u79	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. The question of non-acceptance of students for lack of an opportunity to improve their grades will be asked by Members of the Law and Justice. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Education. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek will answer. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u80	Dear Marshal! Minister! According to the information also transmitted to my parish offices, complaints affect the lack of ability of students to improve their grades as a result of the teacher strike. In such a situation, students of the highest classes of high school, technicians who, due to the teacher strike, could not improve their grades, did not join the Matura either. As an example, two complaints were received at the Education Office in Katowice regarding the lack of possibility for pupils to improve their grades. An ad hoc check was carried out at the school where the students complained. There have been irregularities in compliance with the principles of assessment, classification and promotion of pupils. Curatoria in Poland is now expecting further applications. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Ministry has information on how many students in the senior year have not been able to improve their grades within the time available for them. Do we know the scale of this phenomenon? Does the Ministry intend to address this problem in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u81	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u82	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the situation was difficult this year. It was difficult for students, it was difficult for teachers, especially those who got involved in the process of taking and conducting exams in the eighth grade. The situation was also difficult due to Matura, but the use of so-called. the prom law, i.e. the rules that allowed the director to classify, allowed the students, and there were more than 15 thousand of them. in 197 schools, get grades, be classified and therefore be able to take Matura. On the other hand, following a detailed answer to the question, it is necessary to recall a few important legal provisions that speak about what results and how evaluation is organised in Polish schools. Thus, people with a certificate of upper secondary or upper secondary education, i.e. general secondary school, technical school, second-cycle professional school, i.e. those with upper secondary or upper secondary education, can take part in the exam. The decision to take or not to take the examination shall be the responsibility of the person concerned. On the other hand, the exam cannot be taken by a person who, as a result of the final classification, did not receive positive assessments from all compulsory educational activities, i.e., in other words, did not graduate from school. These principles of assessment, classification and promotion of pupils are defined by three documents: the Education System Act and the implementing rules, i.e. the regulation and the statute of the school which defines what is called internal evaluation. It is therefore worth recalling that this assessment and classification falls within the competence of the teacher who conducts educational activities. At the beginning of the school year, teachers are obliged, which is important, to inform pupils and their parents of the educational requirements necessary for the student to receive annual classification assessments of the educational activities resulting from the teacher's curriculum. Before the annual meeting of the pedagogical board, the teachers shall inform the pupil and his parents of the annual classification assessment envisaged for him within the time limit and form specified in the school statute. A student, in particular those at risk of a negative assessment, may benefit from the possibility of increasing the envisaged annual assessment. It also contains a statute, or internal evaluation system, to inform about the mode of increase. If, and this is important, the teacher has not retained the procedure for determining the conditions for determining the annual assessment, the student or his or her parents may raise objections. The deadline for submitting these reservations shall cover the period from the date of the annual classification assessment to the expiry of 2 working days after the end of the teaching and education classes. The Director shall be required to set up a committee which shall carry out a test of the pupil's knowledge and skills in the event of irregularities concerning the determination of the annual classification assessment. In these circumstances, the assessment established by the committee shall become an annual classification assessment of the subject in question. And now what I have already said - in view of the situation of teacher strikes in April 2019, as a result of which not all pedagogical councils have carried out the activities resulting from their competences, we have introduced changes that have allowed this to be done. As a result, the students who graduated from high school were able to take the exam. I would like to say that the Ministry has not so far collected data on the number of students who have not taken the exam because they have not graduated from school, but because of the situation that is taking place, we will try to collect such data. And what we can say and what we will certainly do: we will examine all these situations, especially those in which complaints have been brought. Four complaints were received by the Ministry of National Education. Therefore, in accordance with its powers, the Ministry has forwarded these complaints to the curators for examination under pedagogical supervision. Each of these situations will be tested and analysed by the Ministry of Education. In other words, this situation is a new situation for us, but we managed to control it quickly, by updating the rules, though [[♪ The bell ♪]] it cannot be excluded that there have been cases where students feel injured. We will therefore examine each of these complaints. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u83	Thank you. Stay on the stand, Minister. The Member will ask a question from the parliamentary jury. Before the additional question is asked, allow me to welcome the winners of the contest on soldiers cursed from the Piska district and the winners of the competition about Jan Paul II from the diocese of Elk. [[Applause]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I wish you good impressions, pleasures from watching the meeting of the Sejm, but also a nice stay in Warsaw and visiting Warsaw. And now we're going to ask you an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u84	I would also like to ask whether this year's situations that have taken place in relation to the classification of pupils, examinations, final assessments are reflected in the development of new solutions by the Ministry to avoid similar situations in the future. Or is it that the current rules, regulations are sufficient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u85	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I will take this opportunity to give all teachers, all local governments, people who are part of the examination board, members of the supervisory teams... And not only that, because we're talking about high school right now, but I'm also talking about graduates, about the situation that took place at the end of primary school and middle school. I would like to thank you very much again for being able to carry out these exams efficiently. Of course, this required extraordinary situations, extraordinary changes in the law, but the government, the ministry, took action so quickly that the exams were actually carried out, and the classification took place in all schools. However, I want to tell you what we're gathering right now. As of 30 September each year, we collect information about the number of people who have started graduating in the senior year, the number of graduates who have completed their final exam and the number of people who passed their final exam, and we will, of course, compare these data. In view of the situation, we will also collect - through MEN, through education curators - details of the situation of students who did not graduate this year because of the situation that took place. After examining this situation, the Ministry will certainly consider actions, considering whether there will be any need for changes in the legislation or changes in the provisions on pedagogical supervision or evaluation that could improve the situation where the student feels disadvantaged because of precisely the issues that have taken place this year. On the other hand, I would also like to stress that, regardless of our legislation, as I said, the evaluation provisions are the provisions of the Education Act, these are the relevant regulations, this is the internal evaluation system. Let me remind you that the statute of the school, this internal evaluation system, or internal evaluation, is influenced by parents. It's important that they're very well informed about it, too. But, of course, there is a civil law road, and if there is a situation in which a parent believes that his child has been harmed in this situation, then there may be a civil law cause for injury or loss in relation to the child. That's it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, it's about proving that the procedures that I've been talking about aren't kept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u87	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the next question, I would like to say that there are also students from primary school in Stary Korczyn along with carers at the gallery. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] and also these young people and carers wish you a pleasant stay in the Sejm, so that it is an unforgettable impression, but also a pleasant stay in the capital city, Warsaw. Have a nice day. Let's move on to the last question at this point. They will be asked by Members of the Law and Justice on the amounts allocated to the development of sport and tourism in Warmia and Mazury. He is addressed to the Minister of Sport and Tourism, and will respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Mr Jan Widera. The question is asked by Mr Gosievski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u88	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Participating in meetings with voters, to whom we present programme proposals of the government of the Republic of Poland, residents of our region, Warmia and Mazury, are surprised by such a large range of programs from the Ministry of Sport and Tourism addressed to schools, local governments and associations, programs for the development of physical and mental culture, young and older residents of the Republic of Poland. This shows, in our view, that the proposals made to local governments in this area are probably not sufficiently promoted among people. Minister! Which entities in Warmia and Mazury benefited from programme offers for the development of sport infrastructure and tourism in Warmia and Mazury and in what amount did they receive funds under them? What is the level of budgeting of projects in the field of sport and competition in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship in relation to 2015? Has current financial expenditure increased or remained at the same level of support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u89	Please respond to Minister Jan Widera.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u90	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I would like to inform you that in the field of sports infrastructure, the Ministry of Sport and Tourism in the years 2016-2019 allocated PLN 66 384 220 to sports infrastructure in the Warmia-Mazury region. The funds were transferred to 141 beneficiaries for the construction, renovation and modernisation of 286 facilities, including 174 open active areas. Examples of support for investment tasks in the region include: Co-financing of the University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn for the modernisation of the athletic stadium in Olsztyn - an amount of PLN 3.5 million as part of an investment programme of particular importance for sport. Co-financing for the municipality and the town of Elbląg for the modernisation of the indoor swimming pool in Elbląg - an amount of 2731 thousand. PLN within the framework of the Sports infrastructure modernisation programme. Construction of a sports boarding house with facilities in the Central Sport Centre - Olympic Preparation Centre in Giżycko - an amount of 11 300 thousand. zł, also from the investment programme of particular importance for sport. Co-financing for the municipality of Ełk for the construction of a sports hall at the Sport School Complex in Ełk - an amount of PLN 3.5 million as part of the school's development programme for sport infrastructure. Co-financing for the municipality of Kruklanka for the construction of a sports hall at the School Complex in Kruklanki - the amount of PLN 3 555 900 as part of the programme of Sports Poland. Grant for the municipality of Giżycko for the construction of the VA category athletic stadium - the amount of PLN 2 million. Co-financing for the municipality of Bartoszyce for the construction of a sports hall at the School Complex No. 2 Romualda Traugutta - an amount of PLN 3 396 900 within the framework of the school's sports infrastructure development programme. As far as tourism is concerned, in order to improve the competitiveness of the tourism sector and strengthen the tourist image of Poland, the Minister of Sport and Tourism announces annually an open competition of offers for public tourism tasks for non-governmental organisations and individuals registered in Poland within the meaning of Article. 3 (1) (a) 3 Act on public benefit and voluntary activities whose activities in the field of tourism or national studies are one of the objectives or statutory tasks and which operate for more than 2 years. The tasks are usually of a national nature and include Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Examples of activities in the field of tourism in recent years are: Safe hiking trails lowland, bike and kayaking - the task carried out by the Polish Tourist and National Expert Board. The grant was PLN 258 693 in 2016, PLN 302 719 in 2017, and PLN 350 000 in 2018. zł. Task: Renewing the marking of hiking trails lowland, bike and kayaking trails is also carried out by the Polish Tourist and Nationalistic Association of the General Board. The grant amount in 2019 amounted to PLN 520 038. Safe camping. The assessment of campsites in terms of ensuring a safe holiday for tourists in the national competition for the best camping is a task carried out by the Polish camping federation. The grant in 2017 amounted to PLN 69 965. In addition, in 2016 the Council adopted Local Tourist Organization The land of Mrągowska has completed the task called: Bike Mazury 2.0 . The amount of the subsidy granted by the Ministry is PLN 25 500. In response to another question in the field of sport, the Ministry of Sport and Tourism allocated over PLN 21.5 million to the general sport in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. In 2018 alone, we spent nearly PLN 9.5 million on universal sport tasks carried out in this region. That's 75%. more than in 2015, i.e. by more than PLN 5.4 million. Activation of children and young people on an unprecedented scale was possible, among others. thanks to the launch of innovative programmes aimed at this purpose in 2016: the government programme of the Club and the programme of the School Sports Club. The club programme is comprehensive support for small and medium-sized clubs, which are local centres of social activity and places for improving the physical condition of society. This support is an essential element affecting the effective functioning of the sports club. The programme contributes to the construction of social capital by proposing to spend active leisure time for children and young people. Participants in sports activities acquire many key competences for their development, such as ability to work in a group, perseverance or diligence. In 2016 we supported 89 small and medium-sized sports clubs in Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 2017 - 144 clubs and in 2018 - 133 clubs located in this voivodship. In total, we financed the activities of the clubs 4 019 946 PLN in the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship in the years 2016 and 2018. The school sports club is a program that takes advantage of the proven form of school after-school sports activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u91	Minister, why don't we finish these calculations in the second part when you ask an additional question. Stay here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u92	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Minister, how does the Ministry of Sport and Tourism support the schools of the Sports Championship and especially the School of Sports Championship in Mrągów? The School of Sports Championship in Mrągów was founded more than 40 years ago and closely cooperates with the Sports Club. Graduates of the school in Mrągów are masters of Poland, Europe and the world in sailing. This school educates great athletes, and is still struggling with financial problems, which include. results in a decrease in recruitment. In our view, therefore, it requires support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u93	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u94	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Sports and Tourism supports schools of sport championship through individual Polish sports unions, which, as part of the programme of funding tasks from areas supporting sports training and competition of young people, can receive grants, among others. for training young people in public or private schools of the sports championship. By releasing a pool of funds from the grant granted by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, the management of the union decides on its own what amount it intends to allocate to group training and what amount it intends to allocate to the central training of national staff. In 2019 the Minister of Sport and Tourism for group training of players planned the amount of PLN 34 million. 34 Polish sports unions benefit from this kind of support. In the School of Sports Championships in Mrągów, the training is carried out by the Polish Żeglarski Union, which from the grant granted to him amounted to 4800 thousand. PLN has been allocated 180 thousand. PLN for conducting school training in Mrągów. The association allocates grants to the organisation of national and foreign groups, participation in national and foreign competitions, the remuneration of trainers, as well as to the purchase of equipment for students from the school in Mrągów. That was about 60,000. zł. The Ministry of Sport and Tourism significantly supports schools of sport championship also in the development of sport infrastructure. This is demonstrated by the fact that schools of this type in terms of investment tasks for sports facilities can count on preferential conditions for funding from the Ministry of Sport - up to 70% of eligible investment costs. For other investments, except for specific exceptions, funding may be up to 50%. These preferential conditions are included in the Regulation of the Minister for Sport and Tourism of 25 September 2017 on the transfer of funds from the Physical Culture Development Fund. I've got one more minute, so I'm gonna go ahead and give you a refill. I'm gonna refer to professional sports. Between 2016 and 2019 the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship received funding of approx. 9 million PLN under the competition sport programme. The funds were allocated, among others. for tasks related to training and competition of voivodship players, organization of final competitions of national youth Olympics, prizes for clubs that took high place in the youth sport system, or supporting training of sport competition for young people who are sportingly qualified in centres operating with the support of local self-government units. For comparison, in 2015 the amount of funding allocated to the development of voivodship personnel in the field of competitive sport amounted to PLN 609 350. The increase in funding in the following years was mainly due to the fact that the junior and youth categories were also covered by the funding, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which resulted in an increase in the number of people who have benefited from support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the activities of the Ministry of Environment in favour of the Polish village, requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be considered at this meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may authorise the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u96	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Thank you very much for letting us talk in the Sejm about supporting activities undertaken by the community ministry in favour of the Polish village. There are many issues that connect the Polish countryside, rural areas with environmental protection and the Ministry of Environment. Therefore, this information, our question and our request for information. It is quite broad information, which concerns the activities of the entire Ministry of the Environment undertaken to support rural areas and, above all, for Polish agriculture. There are many problems concerning precisely those activities and areas that connect the Ministry of the Environment with agriculture. Above all, it is about degraded and acidified soil. This problem has been affecting Polish agriculture for many, many years. Some actions have already been taken on this issue, but they have been ineffective. The acidification of Polish soils is quite high. It is said that 30% of the soils on which production takes place are heavily acidified. This involves acidic rains that continue to occur and many activities. That is why we ask such a question and ask the Minister for information. Is the Minister taking action to help the Polish farmer solve this serious problem of acidification and degradation of soils, and what are these actions? Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This problem is also related to hydration. If there is good acidity of the soil, good throughput and good fertility, then the issue of hydration, the drought that has recently affected us - both this year and last year... It will also be very helpful. This is why this concerns the hydration and drought aspect, which is increasingly affecting our country. The next thing I'd like to mention is agricultural waste. We're talking about foils, bagging nets, plastic bags, packaging, big bags, which are getting more and more fashionable these days, and which are more and more farmers are using. These are waste that companies don't want to take in the normal way. This is special waste. Does the Ministry know about this, and if so, what action is it taking to help solve this issue? One last problem. Maybe not the last one, because there are more problems, but one of the biggest problems concerning the Polish village - the asbestos case. Ladies and gentlemen, a very ambitious plan was adopted to ensure that asbestos would disappear from Poland by 2032. We know that for many years, in times rightly past, the basic covering of roofs, especially livestock buildings, but also all economic buildings, was asbestos. It was a etherite built, among others. It's asbestos. This is going to be quite difficult and I think that if this programme goes this way, the 2032 deadline will not be fulfilled. What does that come from? Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish farmer cannot afford to deal with this problem. Ladies and gentlemen! We also know that very often some people act in their own home way. They take off the etherite, harming themselves even more and the environment. If we do not create a good system that will support farmers with asbestos problems who want to replace the roof cover, they want to remove asbestos from their farm, then, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that we will not achieve our goal in 2032. In view of the fact that we know that asbestos is very harmful to health not only for the villagers, but for all of us, is the Ministry taking any action in this direction, will it develop a system and can we be calm that the 2032 deadline will be reached by common forces? Are there programs that [[♪ The bell ♪]] will they help the Polish farmer and not just the Polish farmer? Although this information is primarily about the Polish farmer, because this is what it says, which was reported by the Law and Justice Club. Minister! There are many topics that connect us, farmers, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture, but we would like to present these basic topics in the information. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u97	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u98	In information for us, for Members, but above all for the Polish farmer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u99	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to Mr Henryk Kowalczyk's environmental minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u100	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The environment is, of course, integrated with agriculture and rural areas, after all, the vast majority of Poland's territory is occupied by rural areas. The Ministry of the Environment recognises the problems that arise in the field of environmental protection, both in rural areas and, more precisely, in farmers. As far as the topics raised by the Member are concerned, a soil degradation programme has emerged. The liming program worked in previous years, unfortunately our predecessors, no longer remember when, they eliminated the funding of liming soil. We're restarting it. We're reinvigorating the soil degradation program by liming. In this programme we provide for the use of the allocation of funds at the level of PLN 300 million. We anticipate a subsidy for purchase of lime of PLN 300 per tonne of pure ingredient, if the holding is up to 25 ha. This is where we do gradation, so if the farms are in the range of 25.50 ha, then we donate 200 PLN to a ton of pure ingredient, and for farms in the range of 50.75 ha - 100 PLN to a ton of pure calcium ingredient. On the other hand, on farms above 75 ha, we no longer provide for such funding. Gradation has been taken into account because it is in small farms that soil degradation occurs most often and lime is the least used. The programme will be implemented by voivodship environmental and water management funds, but of course the cooperating authority will be the National Chemical and Agricultural Station. In fact, farmers should report to the National Chemical and Agricultural Station in order, first, to obtain soil testing in terms of acidity, second, to obtain a recommendation on the application of fertilising needs and to purchase this calcium fertiliser to distribute it and then to apply for a refund to the Regional Environmental Fund via the National Chemical and Agricultural Station. I hope that for a few years, we will be able to cyclically eliminate the problem of soil hyperacidity. The second problem is asbestos and this programme actually works. The scheme was probably established in 2003 and provided for the elimination of asbestos entirely by 2032. On the other hand, when I looked at the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which was announced in 2016, and assessed the implementation of this programme for the years 2009 and 2014, the Supreme Audit Office assessed the implementation of this programme absolutely negatively, indicating that if we acted at the rate at which asbestos was removed then, we would need another 200 years, not until 2032. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, Hence, the program, which is functioning, but to a very limited extent, we decided to speed up very much so that anyone who wants to change the roof cover and eliminate asbestos would have no problem with its development after taking it off the roof. That is why we have increased the financial allocation several times, initially to PLN 170 million. Of course, if there's more need, we'll increase it further. We have also made it easier for municipalities, because at the moment the aid for them is at 50%. Therefore, the municipalities do not seek to apply for these applications. We differentiate the aid, especially for small-income municipalities, i.e. less than 1.5 thousand. zł per person. When this G indicator is less than 1.5 thousand, the municipality receives 100% costs for the removal of asbestos. For the G indicator between 1500 and 2000 - 70% grants received by the municipality, 30% added from its resources. And at the richest municipalities, where the G is above 2,000, that's 40%. grants. Hence the poorest communities have 100% , the richest little less, but by far more than was anticipated in the existing programmes, and the amount of allocation is far greater. This will allow anyone who requests funding for the costs of removal of asbestos, the development of this, removal from the roof, transport, money for this. Another problem that has emerged in recent years is the problem with agricultural waste. It's especially plastic, fertilizer packaging, fertilizer bags, strings, etc. The focus of these films was still active when there was intense exports of this type of products to China. Unfortunately, this has broken down and, therefore, it is necessary for farmers to implement a programme for collecting these waste which is missing from farmers. We do not want them to go to illegal landfills or anywhere else, hence to recognize the problem, we are currently implementing a pilot programme in seven municipalities in the north of the Mazowieckie voivodeship, in those municipalities where there is intensive milk production and the problem is very strong. Once this pilot programme has been implemented, we will launch a programme covering Poland as a whole. We assume that the costs of collecting and developing film should not exceed 500 PLN/t, string and other waste - 700 PLN/t. But these are not the only programs that the Ministry of the Environment is implementing for agriculture. First of all, I will mention only briefly the Clean Air programme. After all, it is a programme intended mainly for rural areas, because it is a programme supporting single-family houses, and after all, single-family houses are present in the countryside, not in the dominant part of the cities. So that really more than 2/3 of the funding under this programme goes to rural areas. Another issue is the financing of emergency services. That's what goes into rural areas, especially the volunteer fire department. We have increased this funding many times. In coordination with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the basis of the agreement, we finance this. Last year, more than PLN 100 million from environmental funds were transferred to CSR units for purchase of cars, this year more than PLN 120 million. As a result, the CSR units supplied 372 fire cars last year. This year, 375 new fire cars are planned to be purchased. But that's not all, either. We can see the problems now arising from climate change, water supply, but we can also see the enormous need for sewage. So far, sewerage and water supply programs have been solved in agglomerations. It was possible to use the Operational Programme.Infrastructure and environment. And places outside the agglomerations were completely forgotten, and actually these areas were deprived of funding. That's why we're putting in place a water and sewage economy program, a loan program, with a 50% write-off. the value of the loan to poorer municipalities, with a G rate of less than PLN 1200, and 30% to wealthier municipalities for the water and sewage economy. These are the elements that are very often present, the problems that at the moment arise, that you need to bring water in barrels due to drought, lower groundwater levels. Unfortunately, we have many such areas, and there will probably be more and more of them. Hence this program, which is designed to expand the network, to modernise the water treatment station, to modernise the shots. But also the State Forests, as a subsidiary of the Minister of the Environment, remember rural areas. Last year, on the 100th anniversary of independence, PLN 100 million was allocated for the financing of local roads. This year, in order not to be worse, they also want to allocate PLN 100 million to local government aid. I will also mention that the State Forests helped the owners of private forests, which were stormed, and more than 2000 ha [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanks to funding from the State Forests, it has already been cleaned up. I think there will still be an opportunity to further complement this information in the second part of the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. I wanted to welcome the students and guardians from the elementary school in Black Jury. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Does anyone else want to sign up for the question? You're welcome. And I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr. Antoni Duda, PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The period after the transformation of Poland, which took place and continues after 1989, is characterized by among others. sewerage of municipalities. Here we have taken an extremely big step forward in relation to the state which the Polish People's Republic has given us. However, the sewage process is not evenly carried out throughout the country. In this respect, rural areas appear to be clearly lagging behind, especially if they are poorer rural communities. As far as cities are concerned, the problem concerns a small number of residents, but it is serious in many towns. Hence my questions. Does the Ministry of the Environment provide for support for municipalities in this area in its expenditure plans? And is there any predictable time perspective in which we can say that the problem of unscathed villages will disappear? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u103	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you are very nicely talking about helping the Minister of the countryside, about fire trucks, about many other things, and I am asking about a fundamental matter. For 4 years we have had a problem with the fact that we do not have a so-called law. smelly like most European countries. This is the real problem of agriculture, because the so-called law. The odor, which must be designed to protect the welfare of farmers, as well as people in cities from excessive odour emissions, is difficult and you have been working on it for four years. [[And you've prepared them?]] You have a special program, but there is no bill. My question is, have you completed the activities of this law, or can farmers be convinced that their farms will be safe? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u105	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u106	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that the topics that have been raised here are important, important, I do not diminish their importance, but the most important problem in Poland in this area is the increasing phenomenon of lack of drinking water. A few weeks ago, we had quite a lot of rain. And what is the result? There were fears, fears about whether it would cause flooding, and calming messages: the climax wave passed through Annopol, approaching Puławy, messages such as those in my voivodeship: the shafts survived. Well, that's good, but isn't it, except that it wasn't? Floods - Should We Enjoy? In my opinion, not too much, because the wave actually passed, the water flowed to the Baltic Sea, and the problem of lack of water remained. Poland, contrary to appearances, does not have a lot of water resources, on this issue we have a similar potential to the potential of Egypt - maybe not many people know about it, but this is what it looks like - which lies in Africa, and statistically per inhabitant of Europe is 4600 m3 and on the statistical Pole, the inhabitant of Poland - only 1600 m3 per year. So we are on the threshold of water demand, well below the EU average. The biggest problem is what we have and how we use this water. It is not only that we have little, I have quoted the data, but unfortunately we do not care about it, because this flowing wave is one of the phenomena to be mentioned, we do not save it, we do not have infrastructure. And the question, Minister. What about the small retention programme, how it develops, what are the prospects for the development of the programme, what are the incentives to use, so to speak, this rainy potential? Because this phenomenon will repeat itself, it will appear, perhaps, in a moment, rainy time will pass and the water will flow, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but this will not help preserve the potential for Poland and for Polish agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u107	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ryszard Galla, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You spoke a lot in your speech about financial support for the rural environment. I would like to ask you about two issues that have already been raised, namely water supply and waste water disposal. I am interested in this subject in the context of very small municipalities, with low own income, with small budgets, and in addition losing the opportunity to raise external resources due to their location. These are municipalities with different types of landscape areas. I know such a municipality in Opole Voivodeship, the municipality of Murów - I am sure Mr Wilczyński also knows this case - who has been applying for funds for the drainage for many years, it is difficult to obtain external funds, as well as resources for the analysis. Why? Because it's a clean community. But really, let's face it, if it's unscathed, these sewers are being drained somewhere. Where? We know exactly that they are distributed to different secluded places and in a moment, if there is no aid for such municipalities, it will happen that these clean municipalities will be just as polluted as the municipalities heavily urbanized. We've done a lot, but believe me, I just attended a meeting with residents who shrug their shoulders - the governor is applying for money in the voivodeship, it's at the marshal's and every time the application is dismissed because you can't get enough points. because of the cleanliness of the commune. Minister, please pay attention to this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u109	Thank you very much. I would like to welcome more guests in the Seym - athletics and scouts from the municipality of Strzelce Wielkie. Young people are listening to the meeting today. [[Applause]] Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u110	Minister! The aid for soil liming is invaluable, as there is an accelerated degradation of soil fertility due to the lack of manure. Whoever watches agriculture closely - I belong to these people - knows that it could bring great economic effects to farmers. I have the following question: Have the chemical and agricultural stations already been obliged to carry out soil testing under this programme for the need for lime? Can farmers already report and can they act collectively? Because it's best for the municipality to coordinate, which we can't always count on. Or, for example, Councillors from a given village can create lists of willing farmers and go to the station with them so that farmers do not travel individually? Because as far as the water supply is concerned, I think the Minister will complete that information. The coordination must take on the municipality, as in the case of e.g. Solars. I still have a specific question. Does the eligibility of costs from 1 June 2019 relate to the date of issue of the invoice, the date of sale or the date of delivery of lime to the farmer? E.g. the farmer has ordered lime, it is stored in the field until harvest time, and the invoice may be displayed at sowing time. So, which date is mandatory in this case? And what is meant by the farm area? Own land, own land and leased together or land declared for area charges, grown in a given year by the farmer, irrespective of the legal title to them. [[That's a very good question.]] I'm asking you to answer these questions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u111	Please, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u112	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is good that the Ministry of the Environment has prepared a program for soil regeneration by liming, but we understand that this is a new solution, a pioneer solution, so I wanted to ask you a few important details. Firstly, will this programme be permanent, i.e. will it continue in the coming years? The Minister mentioned the amount of funding at the level of PLN 300 million. I understand that these are the funds reserved by the national fund and they will be distributed in the de minimis formula. However, I would like to remind you that the de minimis formula for agriculture is EUR 250 million, so about PLN 1 billion will be available in this formula for 3 years. We also know that these measures are already generally exhausted, and I would also like to be clear and confident that this programme will continue in 2020 and beyond. We will, of course, support this important project for farmers as an opposition. I would also like to ask why farms have been diversified, which will be able to benefit from financial assistance in the soil lime scheme, taking up to 75 hectares. What about the other farms? Let's agree that we're talking about a family farm of up to 300 hectares. Will these farms not be able to participate in this programme? Or just farms defined by the upper limit, up to 75 ha? This is very important because we know that the program started, so to speak, life from June 1st, if I have read correctly. This means that there will probably be a great interest of farmers [[♪ The bell ♪]] This program. One last remark. I'd like to ask. If an environmental objective is achieved, why is financial assistance only for those holdings which fall within the formula from 1 ha to 75 ha? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u113	Thank you very much, sir. [[Why doesn't anybody give him a round of applause?]] Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. He didn't make it. Please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u114	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will start with the fact that I very much welcomed the information about the initiative and activities of the Environment Ministry in favour of the Polish countryside and the implementation of three programmes aimed at soil regeneration and disposal of harmful materials. I know that for the National program of environmental regeneration of soils by liming them in the four-year perspective, funds of PLN 300 million were provided for the removal of products containing asbestos - PLN 170 million in the country, and for the pilot programme of removal of film and other wastes from agricultural activities, initially implemented in seven municipalities - PLN 10 million. Indeed, this is a significant measure, but I would still like to ask: Do the Ministry believe that the measures envisaged for the implementation of all three programmes are fully sufficient and will achieve the intended objective? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u115	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland steppes. You, as Minister of Environment, should, I think, present today the idea of how to fight Poland's steppe. The Łódź province from which I come today is the most vulnerable to this stepping. A drought that affects farmers in particular, but in fact all of us, makes it hard for water, Minister. What about a little retention? What about funding water companies? These are the things that can save us from the lack of water. You haven't really said anything about it today, and it's very important. There's gonna be a lot of compensation again and you're gonna tell me you don't have any money for farmers. You're not doing anything about it. Almost four years of activity and nothing. It gets worse every year. That's why, Minister, I repeat the question. What are you, Minister, what is the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management going to do in terms of small retention and water companies to improve our water situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u117	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agata Borowiec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u118	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Poland in 2017, according to the CSO, over 77% of rural areas were located in rural areas. length of water supply networks and 61.6% will connect to residential buildings. Compared to the previous year, the length of the water supply network in rural areas increased by 1800 km, i.e. by 0.8% , and amounted to 235 thousand. km, while the number of connections increased by 31 thousand. pieces, which is 0.9%. Nevertheless, rural areas are not sufficiently watered down. Self-governments cannot afford to finance these expensive investments on their own. Therefore, even today, some families do not have access to running water. This was the case in the Bilgoraj district. For the children to have water, their parents would draw it straight from the river. In this situation, I financed the construction of a well for this family with my own resources, but unfortunately there are still many such families. Hence my question, Minister: Do you see the possibility of wider funding for the construction of water supply networks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's a very good question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u119	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u120	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a measles bill. The Resort declared that on 1 July 2019 the odor law will enter into force, i.e. the end of the smelly neighbours. You commissioned a study of environmental awareness and behaviour, where half of Poles saw the stench as a serious problem in our country. My questions, Minister. Which half of Poles in the light of the bill will be satisfied? Farmers, farmers, food producers who are already having trouble making their investments in the countryside today, or maybe the townhouses to which you will offer the scented air quality of farmers? Has the Ministry withdrawn its work on the bill? And who's gonna dictate the conditions of being and living in the countryside: farmer, breeder, townhouse or maybe Minister? And after the consultation or without the consultation? Minister! One more question for me. Since I have repeatedly intervened in the National Environmental Fund, I would very much ask them to answer the questions asked to Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u121	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You were talking about the ashes that the Ministry of the Environment is preparing for the removal of asbestos or materials that are covered buildings containing asbestos. This aid will be the greater, the poorer the municipalities are. However, I have this question: Can the inhabitants of rural areas individually receive support for the removal from their premises or houses or economic buildings of cover containing asbestos, or can they apply individually for such measures? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u123	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Yesterday in this Chamber we talked about this, today the subject is coming back again, namely the problem of waste in the countryside. In the countryside, large and rapidly increasing quantities of agricultural waste are generated. These are mainly foil waste, artificial fertilisers, foil tunnels, silos, straw packaging and a number of others. What's next with the waste? Who will take care of their collection, segregation and recycling? Otherwise, there will be noises of harmful waste and, consequently, a risk of dangerous fires. You said the Minister yesterday - you repeated this very briefly today - about a pilot programme in seven municipalities. How long will this program last? 1500 rural communities are looking forward to solving the problem. Seven is some extremely small scale, and it doesn't actually solve anything. When will there be a comprehensive solution to this problem in all rural communities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u125	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Please, Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u126	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to claim bees. Who like who, but the Minister of the Environment, should take special care of them, because it is in fact a barometer of the cleanliness of our environment. What happens when it comes to this concern in the PiS government when it comes to bees? In May 2018, the European Union banned the use of neonicotinoids, which have a systemic effect, are clearly harmful to bees. There's more and more evidence of their harm. Meanwhile, the Polish Minister of Agriculture agrees to the temporary use of these neonicotinoids. I remember that this was done with your resistance and it did not obtain your consent, it was a clear objection, but here we hear that this temporary permit, based on some strange deal between rape producers and beekeeper associations, is to be carried out further, so this permit is to be extended for another year. The question is, have you been consulted? The question is, can we count on bees and bees to have your reaction on this? Here, too, I think it is worth seeing what is happening in other countries. And a fresh announcement from today: France banned not only the use of neonicotinoids, but also all measures that are harmful [[♪ The bell ♪]] for bees. Perhaps it is worth seeing how these issues are resolved in other countries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u127	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u128	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, A programme that significantly reduces carbon dioxide emissions, including carbon dioxide emissions. eliminates harmful to health smog, it is a pure air program. Rural areas have scattered buildings, and therefore the "Clean Air" programme is important for the Polish village. In my opinion and the applicants of the programme, clean air, the inhabitants of villages and small cities are a large group, not smaller than the inhabitants of large cities. Minister! Have voivodship environmental and water management funds taken action to reach out to villagers, small rural communities? Are villagers a privileged group for the Clean Air programme? How does the Clean Air programme affect young people who have left rural areas and are currently working abroad? How the programme is implemented in Poland, especially in rural areas and regions with lower than average population, e.g. Warmia and Mazury? How many applications have been accepted and implemented in total in rural areas in the country, including Warmia and Mazury? Finally, I would like to stress that there is an interest in poorer areas, rural areas, the clean air programme. Its implementation is of great interest, so I would like to thank the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Poland for implementing the "Clean Air" programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u129	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Magdalena Ewa Marek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u130	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The price of wind electricity production is lower than the price of conventional electricity production. [[That's not true.]] The wind energy market looks forward to reducing the distance bill and allowing the use of modern turbines, which significantly reduce the cost of electricity production. I wanted to ask the Minister: When will the Minister take his decision and act in this direction? On the one hand, the development of wind energy generates several thousand jobs, but it also generates a wide range of social benefits, economic benefits and above all environmental benefits. I would therefore like to ask: Will the target that was set be reached by 2020? I ask the Minister because the conflicting information is provided by the Minister of Energy and with the URE, so I would like to obtain this reply in writing. Why has the government been shutting down green, efficient and cheaper electricity for the last four years? I would also like to ask for an answer. Why is the draft government policy, energy policy by 2040 the announcement of the gradual extinction of wind energy production? I'd like to know why this is happening. Why is it simply written that the amount of power produced by them will be reduced 8 times? I would like the Minister to explain the sentence contained in the document: The lack of links between the operation of the power plant and the demand for energy is an important obstacle to the use of wind energy on land. I'd like the Minister to elaborate on that. What RES does the government propose in return and what will their share in the energy balance by 2040? Minister, please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u131	Thank you, Member. And please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a rather important question, about the waste management in the countryside, specifically agricultural films and other wastes from agricultural activities. We know - and it is the Minister who has also stressed several times - that there is piloting of the programme. Can an application for funding include disposal or recovery of only agricultural film? Next question. When will the funding be paid in this regard? When will the applications for funding be evaluated? It is also very important to ask the Minister here whether it is possible to finance a project where the price for disposal of agricultural film will be e.g. 300 PLN for 1 t? What amounts may also be involved in grid, string and other waste? The topic of rural waste management is very important because we know what problems are. These questions are addressed by farmers to us, to the parliamentary offices, but we also know that the European Union is introducing certain standards here. It is very appropriate to answer these questions that I have asked the Minister. I know that the government and the Ministry of the Environment are carrying out a number of related waste disposal activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u133	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have a few questions about the National programme for the financing of the removal of asbestos products for the years 2019 to 2023. Minister, is this program still in place? And are the funds for its implementation secured in the budget? If so, what is the budget? On what basis was it estimated? How many tons of asbestos will be removed under this program? Is there a special map that shows how much and where this asbestos is still missing and where it has so far been removed most? What does it all depend on, Minister? Is it not by chance that for some reason rural areas, but also poorer areas, e.g. Eastern areas are in a much worse situation and do not have the Ministry's support in this regard? Doesn't the Ministry of the Environment think that there is too little speed of asbestos elimination especially in the countryside, as I have already noticed? Are there situations where the local government does not take action to remove asbestos due to lack of financial resources? If this is the case, does the Ministry intend in any way to assist the local government in carrying out this task? Does the Ministry provide financial support to citizens for the removal of asbestos? It is not only about picking up and disposing of this asbestos, but also, for example. It's about replacing this tile, which is what we're talking about. What is asbestos disposal like? Are special recommendations made in this regard? Does anyone, especially the Ministry, monitor and control this? Does the Ministry have data on how many people have had asbestososis in Poland? Has the European Parliament's recommendations in its resolution of 14 March 2013 on the need to notify, remove and compensate asbestos-related diseases been introduced in our country? If yes, please provide statistics, [[♪ The bell ♪]] taking into account the amounts paid under compensation. What budget are they financed from? I'd like a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u135	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is good that the problem of soil acidification is also among the interests of the state, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, because the state of soil acidification in Poland is estimated to be around 40%. but there are also areas where acidified soils account for more than 80% surface. The effects of acidification of soils are linked to many aspects that are detrimental to the soil environment and, of course, have an impact on yielding. The liming of these soils is required. However, this entails serious costs for the farmer. It is necessary to measure the soil's reaction. Liquefying is an agrotechnical procedure necessary, and at the same time the cheapest, to achieve high yields of good quality. It's a procedure that doesn't allow soil degradation caused by severe acidification. It requires farmers to know about soil reaction and quality of calcium fertilisers. Many farmers buy calcium fertilisers that do not meet their hopes, because when buying and choosing lime, they pay attention mainly to the price. It's said that financial aid for liming they will not be eligible for a holding which leads to soil degradation. What measures are planned by the Ministry to help farmers in this overall area of problems? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u137	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a result of last year's drought, the loss of farmers was estimated at more than PLN 8 billion in the country. Of course, as a result of climate change, drought is an annual phenomenon, and this should not be underestimated. In turn, it is amazing that every year we face the same question: What to do with this problem? Farmers remember the $1,000 you promised. PLN up to each hectare affected by drought. The same is true in the intervention situation of buying apples. In both cases, farmers still claim money today. You promise money from EU funds, as in the case of 500 PLN from a cow, instead of looking for real solutions. You have a problem with the credibility of your promises. On behalf of farmers, once again, I ask: Where is the money? Where's the real help? In addition, I call on the government to lean on the strategy to prevent drought in Poland. In order to address the problem seriously, we need to look for solutions at the basis. Attention should be paid to water management. We have very little water, the least in Europe. Currently, Polish waters are preparing a strategy to prevent drought in Poland. They arise, among others. drought risk maps and recommendations for its eradication. The document is to be ready in 2020 together with a plan for the development of retention. Effective solutions should be seen in this regard. Farmers in the face of climate change cannot wait for empty promises and money that are de facto not there. Therefore, I ask: When will the government address the problem of drought in such a way that the effects are visible? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u139	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! So lightly ad vocem: money is. Empty promises - those are missing, Madame. They're gone. [[They're ……]] Despite systematic improvement, the state of Polish local roads remains one of the fundamental barriers to the increase in road safety, as well as a factor that reduces economic activity, investment and competitiveness of the regions. The Act of 23 October 2018 on the Self-Government Road Fund established a new support mechanism for local government units investing in local roads. Its aim is to accelerate the emergence of modern and safe road infrastructure at local level. In 10 years, 36 billion PLN will be allocated to infrastructure tasks, modernisation and construction of roads. This amount is several times higher than the amount of resources allocated under the National Local Road Redevelopment Programme. However, given the growing need for local government units to raise funds for the renovation of municipal and district roads, I have a question: Does the Ministry of Environment plan to increase the funding of local roads in rural areas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When drought occurs in Poland, ministers follow the proclamation ritual. The Minister of the Environment - that he will either make a strategy to fight drought, the Minister of Agriculture will put in place a hydration programme, just this year from August, and next year the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation will implement or implement a retention programme. And that's what happens every year. Last year was exactly the same thing. And four years ago, it was exactly the same thing. You asked, Mr. Anczynski, if there were any means. There's 20 million on water companies for years, and my proposal to raise it to 80 million fell in the Sejm at the budget. So there's no money and I'm going to the essence of water retention. Did Water Law define the concept of water retention? Is the concept of microretency defined? Is there any separation in the Water Law of what is detailed and basic melioration? Do you know, Minister, that a ditch is a water device? Minister, do you know that in order to make a valve - this is also a device - you have to go through the entire administrative mass sung with different consents and permissions? As long as you do not reflect on the Water Law, that microretency, that is, what people have been doing for centuries, is the normal use of water, which is right for man, so long there will be no microretency, and so long we will not be able to stop water. You just have to do it and not say you're making a strategy. Another thing - Clean air. In the Voivodship Environmental and Water Management Fund, the Supervisory Board cannot find out what it looks like to deal with applications in this programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You take care of that, too, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u143	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Rural communities expect new programmes for agriculture and rural areas. The programmes prepared for them for the disposal of film and other agricultural waste, soil degeneration by liming and disposal of asbestos-containing products are new support areas on the list of priority programmes of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The implementation of the programmes is expected by villagers. I would like to ask how these programmes are implemented in the country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u145	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u146	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask what caused you - I ask you as a doctor - that you started talking about killing beavers for their tail, which is supposed to be an aphrodisiac. [[It's not the Minister. Ha, ha, ha.]] It's the government, Minister, it's the government. Minister Ardanowski. [[It's not that one.]] Minister, you didn't react. You didn't react. These are animals that are protected under your protection. What about those beavers? Answer me. What are you gonna do? The ether's gone. The second thing: Minister, when will this distant, odorous bill be? It is known that our pork meat products are included in the price. And more and more breeders want to grow more and more animals. And that's the problem. We need to find the gold center. You know that in the current situation, the residents are protesting strongly, and there are still no laws. Unfortunately, the absence of this law is also used by people who have influence to create e.g. A poultry farm. When will this law, which will regulate and enforce this, subject certain environmental measures to an economic element? I'd like to ask when you're gonna do it. Another thing about environmental protection. I'd like to ask you if you're monitoring the spray issue, when the bees work, a friend of mine was talking about bees. I was in Zelechlink a few days ago on honeymoon. You can't imagine how much beekeepers complain that there's no monitoring of when farmers do spraying. And the third thing. I'd like to ask you if there's anything you can do about it - it's out of your jurisdiction, but the government... When you explain to the farmers why you raised [[♪ The bell ♪]] Five-year retirement age for women and men? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u147	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u148	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Members of the PO-KO Club are so worried about rural residents today, they are worried about farmers. Mr, who spoke just a moment ago about drought aid, may I remind you. During the Platform's and PSL's governments, you allocated PLN 450 million. The Government of Law and Justice has allocated over PLN 2 billion. Mr President, is it short memory or is it selective? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the gym: The government hasn't paid out. The government hasn't paid off.]] Minister! The Clean Air Priority Programme was prepared by the Government of Law and Justice in order to protect the health of Poles, the climate and the environment. It is addressed to owners of single-family homes and encourages the exchange of heat sources for those that will protect the environment. The funding is up to 53 thousand. zł. Its beneficiaries may be rural residents, where single-family construction dominates, and the distances between houses prevent the construction of district heating networks. From scientific studies and reports we know that smog is a bigger problem in the country than in Polish cities. 90% households in the countryside are heated with solid fuel, while in cities it is 28%. I have a question, Minister. Does the Ministry of the Environment provide specific solutions for rural residents in the fight against smog and for clean air? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u149	Thank you very much, Member. I wanted to welcome the next guests who are watching our meeting in advance - students and carers from Primary School No. 1 in advance. The Home Army of Ostróda, welcome, [[Applause]] and students from 11th High School in Olsztyn and from Primary School No 311 also from Olsztyn. [[Applause]] And now, please, Mr Anthony the Man, the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The village is not only agricultural production but also non-agricultural production. The village is also, Mr applicant, a very comfortable place to live. Today, companies are established in the countryside, which are global in nature. There are villages in which there are companies that employ 500 people and export their products virtually all over the world. The problem is, especially for us Members, when such an investment arises, where there is a problem with the odor. That's when the people come to the MPs. That's what we see most of the time. Minister, that's why I'd like to ask you what's going on with the measles bill. She's expected by most of the villagers. New jobs are being created, which is why farms are growing. There are very many not only farmers, but already agricultural entrepreneurs. They and new entrepreneurs want to build big henhouses, barns, pigsty houses. They're bad for you. I believe that these minimum conditions, which are contained in this draft odor law, are compatible. I don't think 500 meters is a distance you can't beat. In every municipality there will be such places, although perhaps with a slightly worse commute. But such a company can lay out a few hundred meters, about 200 meters of some pavement to get there. Of course, these more convenient commutes are in those places where it harms the population. I am very concerned about this odor law because I recently read that until the elections I will not be considering projects that are at least a little controversial. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that if it had talked to farmers, this law would not have caused controversy and would have solved at least some problems in the Polish countryside. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u151	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The activities of the Ministry of Environment to improve the quality of life in the Polish countryside are measurable and extremely important. Allow me, in order to confirm this point, to recall the specific actions of the Ministry in the case of specific villages. The PO-KO Member who asked the question about the credibility of your promises is absent, but she will be able to listen and see clearly that the promises are being fulfilled, unlike you. For the record. Koniecpol is a municipality located on the north-eastern edge of the Silesian Voivodeship. When in 2015, specifically in July, I was there for the environmental celebration, at the straw balls I saw water. I thought the organizers had a fantasy and just used dirty red water for decorative purposes. Turns out it was the water the residents had to consume. In November 2015, when we embraced governments, the inhabitants struggled with the lack of water and its quality taunted all elementary standards. It was the government of Beata Szydło, the government of Law and Justice that financed the construction of this network. Some members of the Civic Platform have said that they are working to improve quality, but there is no money because power has changed. The power has changed and this small municipality of Koniecpol and its villages have received 80% financing of this construction, but the poor, indebted municipality could not reach 20% According to the Public Finance Act, that's why the Ministry of Environment came to help. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In his speech, the Minister spoke about a programme on the water economy aimed at the municipalities in the form of a loan. Please tell me once again when this programme will be launched, how much and what conditions must be met in order to reach for this form of aid. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u153	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You really are world champions in realizing such a message that you first move in and then move out. All these activities, which the Minister presented as an important activity of the Ministry of Environment, were being carried out. Liquefying soil through agricultural chambers, elimination of asbestos, fire trucks - this was done by voivodship environmental funds. You just took their money and de facto stripped it, because right now it's just puppets, not regional institutions. As regards asbestos, there was no obstacle to the quantity of measures. Those restrictions are still here today. Take a look at this. The eligible expenditure for which they could apply for a grant was only the disposal of asbestos. It still is. People can't afford to trade this cover. Until it's extended, it's going to be the same, because this money's going to be virtual, it's going to be lying. The money you're talking about is virtual anyway. Each time you point to a national fund as a funding institution. In this national grant fund there are 1,700 million, and you have already promised 5 billion. And you promise another one, including self-government roads, pekaes and clean air. As for the clean air, the Minister said it was going into rural areas. Minister, by the end of March, not one zloty went to any Kowalski, but it went to the event companies, you spent 5 million on propaganda, on the event company. Warsaw is clearly a rural area, because it is a company from Warsaw, without a tender. This is the information from your response to the interpellation. You spent $3.6 million on a spot job. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the election time and these are the rural areas where the money goes to the clean air. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u155	Thank you very much, Member. Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u156	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I live in Łódź voivodship, in a region where a lot of potatoes and vegetables are grown under shelter, it is the district of Sieradzki, the district of Łęczycki. There farmers use very many different types of shields that cover their fields to produce under the cover of early potatoes or vegetables. For several years now, we've had such signals that there's a problem with the reception of film or agrofibrous, which can no longer be used in the next year. That is why information is very valuable, and the actions that the Minister was talking about are very good, that these opportunities will emerge. However, Minister, there is one problem, two-three years ago, the technology of producing such agrofibrous has changed and that producers of these agrofibrous are using for their production, in order to strengthen them, other materials, not only polypropylene - I forgot the name of this product - a special product that cannot be recovered in the process of disposal. Therefore, is it not worth considering that producers of such agrofibrous or film should be required to use only materials that can be recovered in the disposal process? I would therefore like to ask you, to ask the Minister, in some way, to persuade the producers of these products to cover the use of such production technology, which will allow them to recover these materials safely later in the process of disposal. Very good, that [[♪ The bell ♪]] we are entering the soil lime scheme because long-term negligence in this area has caused the state of Polish agricultural land to be critical in terms of acidity and pH. Another question, Minister: How many years has aid for the purchase of lime on agricultural land been missing in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u157	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Anna April, Law and Justice will be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask about this nationwide program of regeneration of environmental soils by liming them. We know that this programme started this year, i.e. in 2019, and for the time being is planned until 2023. The funds planned are PLN 300 million. Thank you so much for this program. For this program really Polish agriculture is waiting because the degradation of Polish soils for many years has led to the fact that the quality of these soils is extremely poor. There are a few questions that I would like to ask the Minister. In fact, these are questions from farmers. First, does the eligibility of costs from 1 June 2019 relate to the date of issue of the invoice, the date of sale or the date of delivery of lime to the farmer? The point is, for example. The farmer ordered lime, it is in his field stored until harvest, but the invoice wants to be displayed at the time of sowing. Could this be the case? Another one. What includes eligible costs? Is it the purchase of funds itself or the transport and sowing? If not, can farmers hope that these costs will be included in the future? And if not, why not? When should a soil reaction test be carried out, because that's what they ask, and how long are these tests important: a year or two years, or maybe longer? What is meant by [[♪ The bell ♪]] farm area, or own land or e.g. land grown by a farmer in a given year, regardless of their legal title? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u159	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Robert Telus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u160	Dear Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for this information, but not only for it, because information is just the thing that we have received, knowledge. Thank you for the programs, these are very good programs, especially the lime program. It is my knowledge that such a government lime support programme has not been available since its entry into the European Union. So that this is a very good step and for this very warmly on behalf of farmers thank you. I also thank you for this program on agricultural waste, because it was also a big problem, because companies didn't want to take these waste anymore because they were specialized waste. The farmers had a problem with it, they didn't see how they were supposed to deal with it. Of course, the asbestos issue is also very important and the programme that the Minister has presented is also very important and I hope that this target - 2032 - will be achieved, but it will certainly not be achieved by farmers themselves, without help. Therefore, thank you very much for this financial assistance. So quickly I counted on these two most important programs: liming and asbestosing were allocated almost PLN 500 million. These are big programs, big funds for them, so thank you very much. As far as questions are concerned, of course I will not address those questions that were very political. There are people out there, I mean. Members were worried about aphrodisiacs, beavers. It doesn't matter. But some questions were right away with a lying thesis, because if someone says that Law and Justice raised retirement age, I think the smallest child in Poland knows who raised retirement age and who. The Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, as a former government, wanted to raise women's farmers by 12 years in a year, dear country. We're the ones who brought it back. [[Applause]] We've restored this age, and that's true, and that's what happened. It was the Civic Platform that raised the retirement age. It is also said that there was no drought aid. Ladies and gentlemen, 2250 million. If someone thinks that this is not aid, then, sir, it is strange. I remind you, in 2015, a similar drought, maybe a little smaller, maybe a little bigger. The Civic Platform government then gave 400 million and the Law and Justice government 2250 million. [[Applause]] I think there's a difference, sir. [[Three times the drought.]] There is another problem that you, Mr Man, have raised. This is a problem when it comes to smell, about investments in villages. If a young person who finishes the SGGW wants to invest in the countryside, wants to invest 700 m behind the village, between the village and this investment is the forest, and the residents do not allow, protest, even though everything is legal, protest, say that the ecological henhouse will stink, then this really needs to be regulated. If the doctor has moved to the country and says that the village is serene and angelic and there can be no investment, where can we invest as farmers? I'm a farmer. Where do we invest as farmers to take care of good products for Poles? I am not talking about accusations, sir, I am talking about the problem. You're right: that's the problem. Here we have to regulate it legally and mentally, because if someone moves from the village to the country, then later he does not protest that the trams are disturbing him, but if it is the other way around, it starts to disturb him. This is a really serious problem. The worst part is that someone who does not know about agriculture goes and still supports these protesters, without thinking that we need to take care of the product as Poland, because food security is very important. We're still talking about military security, which is very important, but if we don't take care of food security, how are we going to be a sovereign country? This is really a very serious problem that we need to think about together over political divisions so that this mentality in the countryside can change enough so that people, those who move to the country, know that they are produced in the country, and that there are some nuisances involved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u161	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! By answering the additional questions that were asked during the information, I am sorry, I will no longer answer any questions and any of your Members, because I would be running out of time. Besides, some of the questions were from a completely different barrel, such as agricultural pensions or other matters. Besides, it's more of a lying thesis than a question. Then I'll allow myself to focus on these... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Yes, I am speaking to you, too, because your speech was also in one part not at all on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to focus on the issues that have been raised and possibly explain these issues. First of all, liming. And here were such more detailed questions by Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Mrs Butterwska, etc. So when it comes to the liming program, which is soil regeneration - this is, again, the soil regeneration program by liming - the eligible costs calculated from 1 June mean the invoice. Cost, invoice is a qualified cost. So no matter when it is purchased, the invoice after 1 June. With regard to what this money is for, what are the eligible costs, the costs of purchasing this fertilising agent, transport as well as sowing belong to the farmer. This is aid, not financing the entire project. Why only up to 75 ha? Some people say that... For example, because - just like Mr Plocke, who almost answered his own question by talking about the de minimis limit on agriculture - it is indeed a problem not to exceed this limit. So 300 million. However, if this is summarized, because it will be a cyclical programme or continue, the programme foreseen for the years 2019 to 2023, then indeed if we went out this way each year, we will reach the de minimis limit. So not all, not all, not the whole area, not all agricultural areas can be helped in this way, so we have chosen support for smaller farms that have more degraded soils than large farms, i.e. over 75 hectares, where this liming is remembered more often. Hence, among others. It's a division. And details. It's a chemical and agricultural station. Of course, municipalities can help organizationally - here no financial assistance is required from the municipalities - that is to say, to coordinate the contact of farmers with the field worker of a chemical and agricultural station, which, first, if necessary, will do a soil test - soil testing is important about 2 years, so if these previous surveys were, they can be recognised - and issue fertilising recommendations. On the basis of this recommendation, fertilizer can be bought, sown and applied for reimbursement of purchase costs. As far as asbestos is concerned, of course I said that this programme is being implemented, but I stress once again: the NIK has assessed the implementation of this programme very negatively and has determined that it would be at such a rate for 200 years, which is why it is a significant acceleration of this programme. It assessed the period 2009-2014. Mrs Lenartowicz knows who was in charge at the time, right? And who's the CEO of NIK, you know. So this is about objective data. It's not about telling anyone anything, it's only if I hear it all the time: omission, negligence, then I'm asking you to hit your own chest, and not just about asbestos. So let's discuss the future, and let's not mention it, because the future is much brighter. These are not promises, declarations, empty words. It's credibility and so on. Yes, we precisely, precisely implement the point by point of this program, also in the field of asbestos, so that we do not wait 200 years for it to be removed. Indeed, the asbestos disposal programme does not provide for the financing of a change in roof cover. We can't afford that, nor was that provided for in the environmental decision. However, the fact is that asbestos, already removed, is behind the property and that there is no money to take it off. The municipalities didn't want to use this program. There was little money, there was a large share of municipalities - the municipalities had a 50% share here - hence the unwillingness to implement this programme. This is to change so that anyone who wants to take off asbestos can have and has the funding of its disposal costs. The next thing you know, it's waterworks and plumbing. Of course, this is a huge problem, completely ignored so far. Climate change, on the other hand, is increasing. Once again, there is a program and we can help local governments with a loan in the deadly part. For the less affluent, we have a 50% write-off, for the more affluent - 30%. The program should start. Of course, it will be implemented from the national environmental fund money, but through voivodship funds. In most voivodship environmental funds will launch this program on July 1st and I hope that we will slowly catch up on these sewage backlogs, which are very large, but also water supply, which, unfortunately, are very painful in the case of drought. It's a little retention, because that's what it involves. In the field of small retention, the program is performed by the Polish Waters. About the fact that little retention hasn't been done so far, I'm sorry, but that's not a question for me. All I can say is that when I was Deputy Minister of Agriculture, retention was included in the Rural Development Programme as part of the action. Unfortunately, the next programme, the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period, implemented and negotiated by the Government of the Civic Platform, no longer provided for measures for small retention. This is why the implementation of this programme has indeed been discontinued. And we wake up with more droughts. I hope that this programme will be implemented systematically. This is not my job, but the Minister for the Maritime Affairs is implementing this programme, and the Minister for Agriculture will certainly allocate funds in the next financial perspective in the Rural Development Programme for a small retention. As far as clean air is concerned, I can only inform you that the applications are almost 60,000, contracts - several thousand, more than 20 million zlotys have already been paid. Already, it means that someone filed the application, signed the contract, executed the project, filed the payment request and received the funds. That's one thing. And the next thing you know, it's an odor bill. I agree that this is a big problem. But when I heard the speeches on this issue, one of the Members asked when it would be necessary, and the other one yelled that agricultural production would die. Yeah, that's right. So it's worth to establish a uniform position in the club as well. But I answer specifically. [[You have to tell the truth, Minister.]] You're wrong a lot, you're wrong about the truth. Don't take the floor at this point. I'm informing you... [[Yeah, and it's best for the opposition to close their mouths.]] I just want to let you know that the distance bill, which is a minimum safe distance, because we're talking about it, is in the permanent committee of the Council of Ministers. I hope that, at a good pace, parliamentary work will be adopted in the near future. [[Is the work going on?]] The proposed solutions are, I hope, safe for local communities and safe for farmers, the more that all rights acquired by farmers, agricultural habitats and so on, so there are no such concerns here. There is one more thing I wanted to mention, because we are also talking about climate protection. Of course you can talk about it, but we want to do it. A concern for a pointer target. Of course, I will not answer the question of whether the government will maintain whether it will stick to the indicator target when it comes to renewable energy in the whole energy mix. Because that's what we mean, isn't it? That's a question for the Minister of Energy. I hope he answers that question. On the other hand, we are launching a renewable energy support programme from the Ministry of Environment. The prosumer system in renewable energy is excellent. There's over 60,000 already. Prosumer installations using renewable energy. [[The first thing you did was eliminate consumer energy.]] This is also how we want to support renewable energy for farmers by launching the Agroenergy programme. This is support for farmers to generate renewable energy, a little prosumer, but also specifically dedicated to agricultural activity, with a loan and grant part. And this will certainly also be a very important impetus in terms of the development of renewable energy. If it's about the roads, I'll say a few more words. So, yes, the Ministry of Environment obviously doesn't support local roads directly... [[But the State Forests are supporting.]] ...because these are other programs, but the State Forests support local roads. From environmental funds we do not finance local roads, but from funds collected in the national environmental fund, among others. from the issue fee [[♪ The bell ♪]] fuel collection is supported both by the Self-Government Road Fund and by public transport. So here this financial support is, but the realist is not the Ministry of Environment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. In the correction procedure, Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Requestor! I wasn't talking about farmers, I was talking about farmers. And that's why I had a reservation here because there's this indicator, the DJP is called, a large conversion unit, and it can be adjusted so much that if you want to enlarge it as a farmer, you have, for example. 100 DJP - that's what they all agree to, because that's when agriculture is quite organic, that's normal, that's traditional - and entrepreneurs want 2,000, 3,000. The DJP and then it will be 200 m from the farm, which is located east of it, and the winds in our house are mostly western. It's just impossible to live in. And here I would also like to see doctors in the country, because why should farmers go to the doctor's house in the city if they can go to the country, because she has just seen a comfortable place to live in the country. I think we need to promote this, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u165	Thank you very much. And you want to straighten that out, what did you say? [[I'm the applicant, and it was for me.]] But do you now want to correct your statement or yours? [[My own, of course, because all I can do is mine.]] But you said wrong? [[You, you... one sentence.]] Straighten yourself out? Okay, one minute, quick. Straighten yourself out? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u166	Mr. Speaker! Of course it's the DJP. In this example I was talking about, it's not 100 DJP, it's 40 DJP, and there are protests. I'm talking about protests. And when I was talking about the doctor who came to the country, I wasn't talking about the doctor who came to work in the country, I was just talking about pensioners who live in big cities, and then they come to live in the country and they don't care. And that's the problem we have to solve together.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u167	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! One of the forms of aid of the Ministry of Environment for the Polish countryside is the concept of building new water reservoirs. The construction of small water reservoirs is one of the elements of the programme related to actions to improve the state, increase and restore water resources. The government plans to implement investment activities in the field of shaping, increasing artificial retention and the construction and extension of irrigation or irrigation and drainage systems. At what stage is the completion of the dry tank of the Lower Racibórz?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u169	The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft Act amending the Environmental Law and the Crisis Management Act, print No 3532. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that he listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on the added point of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and some other laws (prints Nos 3496 and 3523). I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Commission: Education, Science and Youth, and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and some other laws contained in prints No 3496 and 3523. Joined committees at their meeting on 12 June this year. they considered the bill mentioned above. A total of 11 amendments were tabled during the work: 7 substantive, 4 editorial and legislative amendments. The committees have accepted one substantive amendment and all editorial and legislative amendments and are asking the High Sejm to adopt a draft law from print No 3523. Which is worth noting, it is a unanimous recommendation. 42 Members voted in favour, there were no votes against or abstentions, which is to say 42 to 0. [[Applause]] There is no reason to be surprised, because the solutions contained in the project are very beneficial for teachers. As the applicants stressed, the draft law is the fulfilment of the provisions of the agreement between the government and representatives of the National Section for Education and Education of the NSZZ.Solidarity, which was signed on 7 April this year. The most important issue of the amendment is, of course, the teacher's salary increase of 9.6%. which will be paid from 1 September this year. The applicants stressed that the budgets prepared by the Platform Government in 2013 and 2016 did not provide for any funding for increases for teachers and salaries in the budgetary sphere at the time. Only the Government of Law and Justice carried out the valorization of teachers' wages in 2017. For this purpose, funding in the educational part of the general subsidy of PLN 413 million was provided and a programme of wage increases for the years 2018 to 2020 was prepared. Two of these increases have already been received by teachers. Since 1 April 2018, average wages have increased by 5.35% and by a further 5% since January 2019. The next 5% increase has been planned since January 2020, but in order to meet the expectations of teachers, the provisions of the Teacher Charter are amended to allow it to accelerate and increase its amount from 5 to, as I said, 9.6%. The applicants indicated that teachers had never received higher increases than in 2019. There's never been a 15% raise in one year. It is worth to add that in total over the last 2 years the teacher's salaries will increase by more than 21% and after the implementation of the September increase the basic salary of the teacher will evolve as follows: the trainee's teacher will receive PLN 2782, the contract teacher - PLN 2862, the teacher appointed - PLN 3250 and the teacher certified - PLN 3817. As far as average wages are concerned, the trainee's teacher will receive PLN 3338, the contract teacher - PLN 3705, the teacher appointed - PLN 4806 and the diplomat teacher - PLN 6141. The appropriations for the implementation of the increases shall be provided in the Budget Act. Another issue that has been taken up in the novel is the introduction of a new benefit for trainees' teachers, a start-up benefit of 1 000. zł. Young teachers, starting a job, will receive social support paid until 30 September of the year in which the teacher started his internship as a contract teacher. The condition for receiving this benefit will be employment of a minimum of 1/2 compulsory classes in one school or several schools combined. The financial consequences of the change are estimated at about PLN 28 million per year by the applicants. The payment of the benefit will be the task of the local government's own units. This is why a change has been made to the Teacher's Charter by providing guarantees for this new task. The distribution of the educational part of the general subsidy will take into account the funding of the start-up benefit, while the Income Act of the local government of the applicant proposes a change in the criteria for the distribution of the education subsidy in order to finance this benefit also for teachers of pre-school education institutions. Another important change is the introduction in the Teacher's Charter that the supplement for teachers of classes must not be less than 300 PLN. At the same time, the statutory possibility was provided for schools which are local self-government units to be able to set a higher amount of this allowance in the remuneration rules. At present, the legal situation is that the amount of the allowance for teachers of educators is determined by local self-government units in the remuneration regulations and the amount of these allowances varies greatly. Nearly 100,000. teachers, about 34%, receive allowances of less than PLN 100, another 155 thousand. teachers, i.e. around 55% , receives allowances between PLN 100 and PLN 200, and only 3% of teachers receive allowances higher than PLN 300. The average is approx. 128 PLN. I think that, therefore, teachers will appreciate the change that we are making, because in fact this 300 PLN is the amount that will, I think, motivate class teachers to get involved in the educational problems of young people. Another important change meeting the expectations of teachers is the shortening of the career promotion path and the return to evaluation of work before 1 September 2018. The mandatory assessment of teachers' work and the provision authorising the Minister of National Education to issue a regulation setting out detailed criteria for evaluation of work shall be abolished. This solution has been strongly criticised by teachers, and therefore the criteria for assessing the work will continue to be set out in the Teacher's Charter. There will also be a separation of the evaluation of the work from the promotion of the profession and the restoration of the evaluation of the teacher's professional achievements for the period of internship. In order to meet the expectations of teachers, it is also necessary to reduce the traineeship to the degree of contract teacher by 1 year, i.e. to 9 months, and to reduce the periods of school work necessary to start the course for the next degree of professional promotion: in the case of an internship to the degree of teacher appointed from 3 years to 2 years, in the case of an internship to the degree of teacher qualified from 4 years to 1 year. In addition, the examination before the examination committee for the degree of contract teacher will be replaced by the interview carried out by the selection committee. I am convinced that the solutions presented will be well accepted by the teaching community, because the amendment is another step towards increasing the prestige of the teaching profession, is another step towards improving the quality of Polish education. At the same time, applicants stressed that they were aware that the project did not meet all the expectations of teachers and that work was already underway on changes in the coming years, including wage increases. Therefore, as I said at the outset, on behalf of the Joint Committees, I would like the High Sejm to adopt the bill in print 3523. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u171	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Teresa Wargock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and some other laws, prints Nos 3496 and 3523. Since the rapporteur has discussed the draft in very detail, I would like to say first of all that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this draft in the submission of the printed documents assigned to it. I would like to address in general the issues that this law regulates. The reform of the education system started on 1 September 2017 is in line with the legal assumptions. According to CBOS survey in September 2018, 67 Poles believed that the new education system was better than the previous one. [[Percent, per cent.]] Today, the last year of junior high school graduates, and since September 1, new secondary schools begin to function. In the reform of education, in this big change, we have always taken care of teachers. In the Act we proposed solutions which by law protected their employment relationship. And so junior high school teachers became primary school teachers by law, and junior high school directors where the classes were joined up as deputy principals of primary school. We have also introduced provisions that have allowed us to continue our career if it turns out that the teacher has less than 1/2 jobs. Education reform has had a positive impact on the situation of teachers. Between 2017 and 2018 28 thousand arrived. employment and the number of teachers who are not employed has decreased. The organisational reform of the education system was accompanied by concern for the level of teachers' salaries. In 2017, for the first time in 5 years, the valorisation of teachers' salaries has been paid and the average salary has increased by 5.35% since April 2018. Another 5% increase was planned for January 2019 and January 2020. As you know, the increase planned for 2020 will be paid from 1 September 2019. Within 15 months, teachers' salaries will increase by 21%. And so the average salary of the diplomat is 60%. qualified teachers, will amount to PLN 6141. High Izbo! The profession of teacher belongs to those professions whose representatives are characterised by awareness of social service, a specific vocation. They play a key role in preparing the young generation for civic, professional and family roles. This requires high professional qualifications and personality predispositions. Strengthening the prestige of the teaching profession is one of the top priorities of the country's education policy. There is still much to be done in this regard. Unfortunately, recent strikes, mainly the refusal to pass exams for pupils in grade VIII and middle school students, met with negative social assessments. They also shared teachers among themselves. It's gonna take time to work those bad emotions. No one today is able to give an answer, how much was involved in this teacher's protest in the fight for higher salaries and how much political commitment on the opposition side. That's why it's time to shut it down and not go back to it. You need an understanding between divisions. Teachers expect higher salaries, and it is understandable, but they also expect a fairer pay system, a system that takes into account the specifics and many tasks that teachers have to fulfil in the education system. Today everyone criticizes the promotion system. The NIK carried out an inspection. The results of the check were very negative. The trade unions rejected the proposal that MEN had made and the High Chamber adopted in the framework of the changes in the promotion of the profession. Today we withdraw from these provisions on promotion and evaluation of the teacher's work. We're giving proof that we're ready to talk. We are ready to listen to your proposals. We ask for these proposals from the members of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth [[♪ The bell ♪]] In our Seym, as well as union headquarters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u173	Thank you, Member. I'd like to welcome the best students of the junior schools with their tutors. Welcome. [[Applause]] And now I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Dolata! I wouldn't be so happy about this project. I also want to tell you that you didn't do the teachers great favors because, quoting the classics, these raises just belonged to them. It's wrong that this raise is so low, 9.6%. The bad thing is also how we proceed over this bill. Let me remind you: on 10 June, on 12 June the Marshal urgently convenes a committee meeting and, attention, without the required opinions, especially from the local government, which unfortunately will be a injured party as a result of this amendment, because as usual he will have to pay for your amendment. Once again, you heroically solve the problems you've created. And so: first of all, on the one hand, you say that you want to increase, improve the prestige of the teaching profession and that this is what these increases are meant to do, all these entries in this amendment. On the other hand, the representative of the PiS Parliamentary Club goes out and says that teachers' strikes were political. How do you treat teachers? I would like to remind you that PiS Members depreciated teachers during strikes, often used quite disdainful language towards them. You are also shortening your career promotion path and returning to the pre-September 2018 rules. The question is: Why did you not listen to the opinions of teachers, trade unions, finally Members who warned you that this would be the disadvantage of the decision on this amendment and that teachers did not want such a system of assessment? You need to check everything with a battle, otherwise you can't. You're saying you're introducing an extra benefit for young start-up teachers. This is yet another untruth, for you restore what you have taken, and it is in a much reduced dimension. I'll remind you that you've taken all the extras from the teachers, and you're restoring this one to a much, much smaller dimension four times. You're pretending to be Santa Claus, as usual. I'm sure there's one state you've got perfectly controlled, that's PR. You want to tell the teachers that if you took more, and you gave them less, and not all, you're back in the program plus, this time the teacher plus. You guys like that kind of thing because it sounds so good. You've set the minimum amount of the parenting allowance in the law. It is good that teachers who perform this function will be able to receive additional resources. Only when yesterday I watched Mr Dolata's heroic struggles, the Minister, trying to give us a precise answer on the sources of funding, did I not receive such information. I wonder how you secured the funds in the state budget for this amendment. It will cost about PLN 1.8 billion. I see you don't know the answer to that question. When writing the amendment, the government failed to secure the budget for this purpose. You are saying that there will be no amendment to the budget law, that you will move the funds. I'm the one who says, "Where are you going to move it?" What department are you moving from? Who are you gonna take again? I think the problem is that, in the case of this amendment, you do not want to show local governments the extent to which they will have to re-pay from their own resources to your amendment. Each law should have a precise financial impact. In addition, you want to divide local governments into those that you will help, because they have a worse financial situation, and those that are doing better, so you will take them away. So far, the model for the distribution of education subsidies has always been based on the number of pupils and pupils, and now you want to take into account the financial condition of the local government. The larger governments that aren't yours will be taken away, and those that are yours will be added. Great, really. These large, dynamic self-governments will also be punished. At present, local governments pay for every dollar. The quickest way is to pay the biggest. The biggest increase in this amount during your reigns is 13% over the last two years. Let me remind you that, please, Minister, you have not yet paid back the 600 million zlotys you owe them for the education reform you have just mentioned so beautifully. Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We call on the government to give a precise indication of the source of funding for this amendment. I'm almost done, Marshal. I submit an amendment on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. Because teachers are waiting for raises - these raises, I will repeat, they simply deserve them - this is the Civic Platform Club, although it has many reservations, will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u175	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Teacher's Charter Act and some other laws, print No 3496. This revision of your Teacher Card is a huge manipulation, ladies and gentlemen, drinking water, photomontage. Bullshit, Minister, just bullshit. It is intended to impress the public that you not only do the teachers well, but also do grace. And that you care about your students and even their parents. But that's not true. You know well that a well-prepared employee, who receives a decent salary, is a good and effective worker. Why else would it be with a teacher? Why would a teacher work well only in the name of an idea, a mission? That this is the case, Polish teachers They have proven many times in times of threat to the nation and the Polish state, but now there is no need. Today you are bragging about the state budget and revenue being in excellent condition. You have repeatedly stressed that you want to share them with society. Why don't you want to do it with your teachers? Share these. extraordinary income with them. In some elements, you restore to the teachers what you have taken from them as a majority of the Seym. Explain, Minister, how is it that an intern's teacher taking the contract teacher's internship is supposed to enjoy a $1,000 development fee. PLN, when previously it had an amount representing twice the minimum wage, it was about 4 thousand. zł. And you took it from them in the previous amendments. Moreover, the provision of a single witness is so constructed that it is not known whether it is a thousand. gross or net zloty. I would like to point out that this will be gross, which in practice will translate into about PLN 650. And that's an honest incentive for you to take an internship as a contract teacher? Another case is the alleged increase of about 10%. Everything would be fine if the basis for calculating this amount was higher, and so it's really an embarrassing amount. But there's wine here. also on the side of the previous PO-PSL team. If they systematically raise their teacher's salary, these first 5% , and now, since September 1st, the 9.6% would indeed constitute a significant increase. In fact, it's a small amount. Let us remember that due to the construction of the gross wage, a serious beneficiary of this poor increase for teachers will be the budget of the state which will consume it to a large extent due to the Social Security Office and taxes. The next issue concerns the restoration of the previous career promotion path. To a small extent, these solutions are pro-quality. Unfortunately, the economic aspect is more important both in your PiS interpretation and in the interpretation of teachers, because the teacher who takes the effort of promotion of the profession thinks more about raising his salary than about improving the quality of his work and his experience. Ladies and gentlemen, the teachers actually accepted this previous solution that you are leaving today, and they were even happy with it. But the problem is that you just want to give the teachers back the money you took from them. The practice of professional promotion so far shows that the qualification formula itself is a purely bureaucratic procedure and not a qualitative qualification. Unfortunately, it will continue. Another issue concerns the allowance for educators for their educational work. Teachers do this job not only at the school but also outside the school. They go on trips where they work hard, taking care of children and young people, and teaching children and young people at that time using different forms of teaching. They also do so in time formally free from education, e.g. during the holidays. The caretaker of the school trip must still be at his disposal. And how much money does he get for it? It's just one example. You're making a mandatory allowance for your upbringing, but it's a burden on the local government. For the sake of clarity, local governments do not go beyond the limits of their budget. There is a great media fraud, that education will be financed from unknown resources, unknown origins, while this is the money of citizens, Poles who draw the state from them, draw local governments in the form of various taxes and danins. We want this money to be well invested in Polish education, and it is not really. To be clear, you will still pass this bill, I suspect, with the support of PO-KO and PSL, thus saving the skin and justifying yourselves for years of negligence. I, on the other hand, recommend Kukiz15 rejecting it. Not because I'm against the teacher's raises, but because I'm against the raises in this humiliating height for them... [[♪ The bell ♪]] One more minute, excuse me, 10 seconds. ...against the form of dialogue with them and finally against the fraud and manipulations you commit towards students, their parents, teachers. These changes are preposterous. Polish education will not change in this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u177	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u178	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law amending the Teacher's Charter Act and some other laws, prints No 3496 and 3523. Ladies and gentlemen! I've been wondering for a long time if there's a method in this madness. What causes the rulers? Fear, inability to manage, or merely aversion to our compatriots? This bill is another example of what we have been talking about for a long time. Even if the PiS diagnoses the problem well, it can't solve it. Today, governments are talking about raises. Great. According to their plan from 1 September 2019 to 31 December 2019 the average remuneration of teachers is expected to increase by 9.6%. The increase is to be paid until 30 September 2019 with an adjustment from 1 September 2019. The explanatory memorandum states that after the implementation of this increase, the basic salary of the trainee's teacher will be PLN 2782 gross, the contract teacher - PLN 2862 gross, the teacher appointed - PLN 3250 gross and the diplomat - PLN 3817 gross, i.e. on average everyone will gain PLN 300. Good and this, although I will remind you, that the claims of teachers concerned 1000 PLN, not 300 PLN. Ladies and gentlemen! PSL submitted in the Sejm an appropriate bill providing teachers with a raise of PLN 1000, but unfortunately there were no interests governing it. But we're different. If there are going to be increases for teachers - even small, but still - we will not object. There's only one thing. Even assuming the good will of the rulers, the question arises as to where the money will come from. Of course, this is not clear in the project. I hope that today we will find out what the budget transfers are planned. I ask you, Minister, to provide specific sources and to answer the question of whether it is not sometimes that the government will accept the project and then the execution and development of funds will cede to local governments. Ladies and gentlemen! There can't be that kind of spychology. That is why we are calling for clear, concrete information on where the raise money will be generated from. We will not block the initiative on raises, even smaller ones, but we must defend the local government. Ladies and gentlemen, the local government has been alerting for several years that the subsidy is insufficient. I will also remind you of the declarations made by Prime Minister Morawiecki a year ago. The Prime Minister spoke about the fact that local governments will receive support from the central budget in various situations. This is the need today to support teachers, so we are waiting for information on where the funds will be transferred from the central budget. You're welcome, Minister, to respond. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u179	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, a non-member Member. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! This story about this bill is exactly like an old goat joke. First, you must bring the goat and make life impossible. After we get the goat out, it'll be better. That's exactly what this bill looks like. First, it's ruined the career promotion time and the teacher's evaluation, and now someone's fixing it and he's glad he's done something. It's hard to be proud of trying to fix something that's broken. Of course, the Act contains solutions related to teachers' wages. Let us realise that we have seen high economic growth for several years. This economic growth, of course, is not, contrary to what the PiS politicians think, the merit of this government. It is due to the fact that firstly, we have a well-established economy for a long time, and secondly, it is a global economy. We have economic growth and it is natural that teachers, as well as workers of the whole economy, want to participate in this growth equally with those who work in industry, in the economy and in various other areas. The increase you are proposing is therefore insufficient. It is inadequate to see wage increases outside the budgetary sphere. Let us remember that we give our teachers what is most precious: our children, our future. Therefore, it is worth teaching the best and paying the best. If one of the professors reports that no graduate who graduated from the University of Warsaw has decided to work at school, then we must realize that the best do not go to education. At present, the fitting for next year seems to be missing in Warsaw several hundred, several thousand teachers. This is the case throughout Poland. Teachers of natural and professional subjects are missing throughout Poland. If teachers of these subjects are not paid enough, it is hard to expect them to choose to work in education if they can find work outside of it. It's a question of salary. There is one more question and the basic question: At whose expense? The whole bill... Looks like you're gonna want to raise it with the hands of the local government. No wonder this project is a parliamentary project, not a government project. The government project would require greater care, would require the identification of sources of funding, budget lines. It would also require consultation and questioning of local authorities, what they think about paying for the government's promises. If such changes are made by means of a parliamentary project and it is done at such a rate that there is not even time for the opinion of local authorities, then maybe we can hide the fact that local governments have to pay for it. The state often says that local governments have more income. The revenues of local governments have increased because the economy is functioning better. Okay, but the state budget also has a much higher income. This is due to the fact that, if the economy is developing, VAT revenues from PIT, actually from all taxes, are higher. There's less to pay for the ZUS. Therefore, why do you take the opportunity of the local authorities to develop during the economic period and assume that they are to cover the commitments you make with their money? We have a bill that fixes what you've ruined. We have a law that gives rise, but much lower than how salaries increase in the economy, we have a law that is introduced at the expense of local governments, we have a law that restores the form of payment, for example. The one you took last time by taking the extras, and we're supposed to be happy for you. Let me put it this way: we can support her, but we certainly won't be happy. We will support it because we think that the teachers really deserve this 300 PLN for their upbringing. Too bad it's on the government. We're gonna back her up because the teachers deserve a raise. Too bad it's so low. We will support her because we believe that the teacher's promotion system has been better. I wish you guys hadn't ruined it. We're gonna back her up because you're fixing your mistakes. It's a shame you didn't listen to us when we told you that you were going astray. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u181	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since the issue of money allocated to the raises introduced by the Act has been very frequent and there has been a lot of false information around it, I would like to make it clear that as a Member of the Committee on Public Finance, no money has been included in the 2019 budget and you are well aware of this. Not much, no change in the Ministry of Health's financial plan was considered by the Public Finance Commission. Saying that this money has been secured in the budget for this moment is certainly not true, and please don't repeat it. In the central budget there is no money secured for teacher raises in September. That money wasn't secured at the beginning of the year. The Finance Commission has so far received no request from the Ministry of National Education to amend the financial plan in this regard. Many local governments have already reached 40-50% in education aid. You've shifted the cost of reforming to local governments, essentially deforming education, and preparing it for a new system that was introduced two years ago. Now you're charging local governments with raises for teachers. I have a question: Is it actually 9.6% Is that the maximum increase you could give teachers? If teachers, like other administrative staff, were to receive increases corresponding to economic growth, Minister, for the last four years they could easily get more than 20% increases. They didn't get it because the government of Law and Justice has been saving on the employees of the budgetary sphere since the beginning of the term of office and spending the money they deserve for a completely different purpose. Today again, you are bringing about the cost of raising teachers to local governments, which means that local governments will not have money to raise directly in their subordinate institutions. These increases are actually implemented from the local government budget, which creates conflicts between people employed in education and those employed e.g. in social assistance, where salaries are also low and require an increase. There have also been strikes there. This is no way to manage the administrative sphere, Minister. This is unacceptable. During the strike, representatives of the Ministry of National Education spoke very much about system solutions. Today, it is important to talk about increases for teachers, but taking into account some of the systemic changes needed at school. It's been said, among other things. the reduction of branches. And what about the changes? Minister, you're making increases, you're transferring these costs to local governments, and there's no way of changing the system at all. The children will continue to sit in crowded schools, learn in the shift system until late evening hours, sit in crowded lounges, learn from material-loaded educational programs. The Ministry ended the discussion at all. And the shift to local governments today in the cost of realization increases for teachers will make it possible for you to take the money that can be spent on investment in education, e.g. infrastructure, so much needed today when schools are so crowded. In many cities, children stay in school late in the afternoon until late in the afternoon, learning and implementing the curriculum. One last question, Minister, because it seemed that during the strike no one in the ministry cared. Have you prepared any report that has shown whether the children have implemented the basics of the program this year? I have two daughters - one in class I, the other in class IV - and I know what it looks like. I know how hard it was for teachers to mobilize after the strike. And it's not teachers, it's the ministry, and it's a little bit of a problem that's responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u183	Thank you very much. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to subscribe to the question? I'm closing the list. Mr Marek Krzykala, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u184	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Please tell me why the government is making increases for teachers at the expense of local governments. You know the position of the Polish Towns Association, which in the report presents reliable calculations. Education subsidy is barely enough to cover 85% expenditure on wages. A concrete example: Rybnik, a city in Upper Silesia, 133 thousand. residents. Expenditure on educational tasks in 2018 - PLN 261 million. The received subsidy - PLN 158 million. That's barely 60% of all expenses. In 2019 it is similar. In addition, the January increase of Minister Zalewska cost Rybnik PLN 6.6 million and the neighbouring Wodzisław - almost PLN 2 million. The planned increases since September are a burden for Rybnik by another PLN 5.7 million. It's easy, Minister, to have someone else's money. Tell me when the government will take responsibility for its promises and finance them itself. When He Honestly Calculates Subventions [[♪ The bell ♪]] For self-governments? Why aren't you trying to pinpoint the sources of funding? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The education system in Poland is basically functioning thanks to local governments, which add another 50 gr to each zloty of subsidies. That's the truth. Similarly, the increases proposed by you are not fully paid. Yesterday in the committee we heard that in 2018 the local government did not receive 600 million PLN of subsidies. Now the question about this year, about the raises since September. What's it going to be? How much will the education subsidy be increased? When local governments find out if this subsidy will be increased and how much? When are the local governments gonna get to the bottom of this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u187	Thank you, sir. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll be no exception here, and I'll be asking about financial issues as well. I will start by saying that Mr Dolata, as the representative of the applicants - it is a pity that the Members submitted the bill rather than the Ministry - made such a detailed calculation as the individual teachers will earn per month. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister whether you have calculated how much these increases will cost the education sector in general. Do you have a source to cover these costs? Have you agreed with the local authorities on how to cover them? Is it gonna be like my previous speakers said that the local governments are gonna be okay? Where I live, the self-government of your government has been stripped of 30% of the commune, [[♪ The bell ♪]] of which he lost over 3 million from the budget, with a budget of 30 million. Tell me how the government is supposed to deal with this task. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u189	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed increase for teachers, agreed only with one trade union, is the propaganda of the governments for which local governments will pay. How do you punish a town that didn't choose a PiS? You've been looking for a solution for a long time, and all of a sudden, they were found in the Teacher's Charter. For residents there will be no lower prices for municipal services, they will not get a new park or nursery, because they will pay for the deformity of education. Why the idea of punishing the more resourceful darts of local governments? The educational subsidy has long not covered the costs of good education. Local governments decide to add further amounts because they know that education is a priority. The question is, is it a priority? Also for the government. Definitely not. That law, and all that mass. [[♪ The bell ♪]] other laws, you clearly show that you despise good education and despise teachers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u191	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Teresa Wargock just said from this speaker that education reform has had a positive impact on the situation of teachers. This is not a very good joke from you, Madame. Teachers work in several schools to have a full-time job, and they should be properly rewarded. I have a few questions. Why so low a raise? The Civic Platform proposes 30%. In addition, no sources of funding have been identified. You're talking about budget redeployments, and you're actually gonna leave local governments with this problem again. In view of the financial condition of local governments, what will the distribution of educational subsidies involve? There's been a misunderstanding, Minister. Does the Minister have any idea how much the local government units pay for their education? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Some up to 60% the own revenue budget. When are you going to give 600 million to the local governments in connection with the education reform?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u193	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u194	You are proposing increases from September to December - please justify this provision in the bill, because I do not understand very much. I hope you lose this election. That's why you put that record in the bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u195	Please, Mr Adam Korol, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A moment ago, Minister Wargock appeared and said a rather interesting sentence - that the bill works great, you restore dignity to teachers. Then why all the strikes? I'm asking because if a large or large part of the environment is on strike, I think something's wrong. You're changing the Teacher's Card, but what are you changing about it? You restore what you have taken, you restore the additions, and it is at a lower height than it was before. You're restoring or giving a start-up allowance of $1,000. zł, just don't say that you took the development allowance, which was approximately 4,000. zł. You're going back to your career promotion period, something that you took the year before when the bill came into effect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're proposing the increase you negotiated with Councilman PiS - 9.6, and you're not giving a 30% increase that the entire environment expects. Just a little while longer: Do you have the money prepared for this, or are you going to charge these costs again to local authorities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u197	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We all know how important and valuable the profession of teacher is, and I will repeat it always and everywhere, because I was a teacher and I know the burden on teachers and educators. It is they who carry out the difficult task of training our children, it is the teachers who require a good education of young people, which is currently less and less disciplined. During the protests, we all said teachers deserve a raise. Why? In order to keep valuable, well-educated young people in school, not to let them go to industry, because these young people need to be thoroughly prepared for their occupation. The Civic Platform has for a long time proposed 30% of the remuneration base in committee discussions. That's about as long as the teachers fought during the protests. Why the government only gives 9.6% ? Because he says he doesn't have any money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But there's money for other things. Or would it be enough to buy one fighter less than the Americans and have money for all the teachers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It follows from the justification for the draft law that the purpose of the law is in particular to provide solutions to improve the prestige of the profession of teacher. And, further, strengthening the prestige of the teaching profession is the country's top priority education policy. Big words, unfortunately not true. The prestige of the teaching profession is built for years and consistently. In recent times, if not the government, who has repeatedly humiliated teachers, not wanting to talk to them, without respecting their work, except in their opinion on education? Who? - I'm asking. Teachers know that very well. And the question is: Will local governments receive an educational subsidy that will cover the effects of this law in its entirety, and when will that be? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u201	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Firstly, I would like to ask at the outset why this increase is so low, so symbolic and does not even exceed 10%. How will you respond to the proposal that was made in the committee of the Civic Platform-Citizen's Coalition Club to raise 30%? Then it would be felt for teachers. Secondly, by examining the provisions of the Act, I see that this increase was granted for a fixed period until 31 December. And the question should be asked here: What after 31 December? How much will the teachers receive? Will this raise be maintained? And, thirdly, in the interests of the budgets of local governments, so heavily charged, so heavily charged also for education expenditure, I ask how the government intends to compensate them for the implementation of the provisions of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u203	Thank you, sir. Ms Krystyna Szumilas, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project is a confession to a mistake. You've admitted your mistake because you're correcting what Minister Zalewska ruined, what you've corrupted. You're pulling out of the bullshit rules you've been making, not listening to the opposition, not listening to this... [[Voice from the Chamber: Did you not break it, Member?]] ...what the teachers said to you, what your parents and locals said to you. You're doing it at a very fast pace. We got the project two days ago. This proposal also changes the rules on disciplinary committees. The new rules are so formulated that there is a suspicion that this is not about the welfare of the child, but about creating an extra whip on the striker teachers. Minister! Really, teachers have the right to strike in defence of their dignity, in defence of the Polish school. That's how you drive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with them talking that you're signing agreements with yourselves. Do not include additional provisions to intimidate teachers in the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u205	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u206	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The allowance for raising in Poland was very different depending on the wealth of the local government, it was minimal, but there were also local authorities who paid much higher allowance for raising, even though teachers did the same job. I am very pleased, Minister, that a minimum allowance for raising 300 PLN has been fixed. And here I have the question: What is the scale of this, how many teachers will receive this supplement of 300 PLN, how many teachers will receive a higher supplement than they have so far? Thank you very much and I am very pleased that the PO-KO Club will support this bill, because the raises for teachers are justified, and the state has not given them for a very long time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u207	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u208	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! Why was such a solution adopted regarding the allowance for raising 300 PLN per month, and the cost of this solution must be borne by local governments? They didn't ask the local authorities if they had the resources. This 300 PLN should be refunded from educational subsidies, and above this amount the local government should find its own funds. You can't transfer all the burdens to local governments. I remember going to school myself. The teacher had decently paid, could live well, and in the school there were various circles of interest or SKS, the youth had after-school classes and could develop, but unfortunately the teachers had to pay for such classes so that teachers and their families could live decently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind my colleagues in PiS that the government of the Civic Platform and PSL in 2008-2012 increased the salaries of teachers by 45%. Let me remind you: this was happening at a time when there was no economic situation in world markets, and GDP was not growing as it is now growing. Since you have a better budgetary position and you give raises to different groups, you give different kinds of social benefits, you should also think about teachers, but you should give them a decent amount for this profession, because I will remind you that teachers raise our children, care for our children. This is the future of Poland, right? What kind of teachers do we have, then we have pupils. Ladies and gentlemen, this money is simply unworthy. I therefore call on you once again to agree to our proposal to increase the salary of teachers by 30%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a worthy amount. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u211	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about the resources allocated to teachers. This applies primarily to class educators, but after all, the role of educator is performed by many people in various individuals. These are educational establishments, homes where young people are helped. What about these tutors? Then I would ask for an exact answer to the following questions. First of all, what group of educators will be included in this? Are they just school teachers or are they others? Secondly, does the regulation specify the criteria which... There's education and upbringing. The fact of childhood itself does not define needs, and these needs are enormous. If we look at the condition, the climate of the school, what is happening at school, this additional situation can certainly be improved, but there must be criteria that the teacher will have to meet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally, one conclusion and one advice. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are not doing well with your finances, you are regularly transferring these finances to the local government, then maybe you need to change the budget structure and give more money from the state budget to the local government? Then there will be no problem with the transfer of money, because the government will get it when dividing the state budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u213	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Members of the PO-KO, once Platforms, today from the Seym Speaker care about teachers. You couldn't tell when you were in charge of the education department. [[It was, it was.]] 12% Increases in 2008 and 2012 over the following years 0%. [[What 12%? Member, lie. 50%.]] Not only for teachers, but also for the entire budget. This is an image of the platform's concern for teachers and their status. Today, when we implement the agreement concluded with the educational 'Solidarity', the Members of the Platform say that it is too fast, that not such a project that there should be another project, and they propose solutions. When you are in opposition, you have a cure for all the problems of the education system and more. We listen to teachers, we listen to unionists. We want to enhance the prestige of the teaching profession. Dear Members of the opposition! Actions, not words. Just now, Mrs PO-KO said that the money that the Government of Law and Justice is proposing is unworthy. [[Voice from the room: Don't yell. Calm down, ma'am.]] I'll ask. 0% Increases [[♪ The bell ♪]] Was that a worthy proposal from the Platform? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u215	Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The PO-KO Members use such words without any embarrassment, that what we do is propaganda, education should be a priority, the prestige of the teacher is built for years. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. I just don't see the teacher's prestige being built when you were in charge. Here are some examples. [[Back then, teachers didn't run away from school, they didn't strike.]] Over two and a half thousand. When you were Minister, 43,000, Your Honor, teachers lost their jobs. The Ministry has been replaced... [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] ...in the publishing house and was the only correct textbook published. Let's move on. Teachers worked with their children for free, forced almost teachers to work in serfdom. There was a ban on selling-- it's a kuriozum-- yeast. Children smuggled salt and other spices into school. [[The voice from the hall: What foolishness you are telling.]] There were secret sets in kindergartens because the child [[♪ The bell ♪]] reading and writing should not be taught in the preschool ward. It is the building by the state of prestige of the profession of teacher. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u217	Thank you very much. And please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzena Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that Members have shown their initiative and have submitted a project that will allow teachers to pay their salaries as a matter of urgency, in accordance with the agreement that we have signed with the Teacher Solidarity. But I think it's worth referring to a context here, that's all about questions, but I'm going to refer to questions, too, and it was raining. First of all, it is important to say where we found Polish education. There were some statements here. Indeed, as a result of the discussion, as a result of the consultation of Poles, we knew that there was a very need for reform. First of all, we listened to Poles. And that's the kind of reform we've done. She was necessary, necessary, first of all, to make education and education more consistent, to reverse the dismantle process of general education schools, to restore freedom for parents when it comes to sending children to schools. We really listen to teachers and parents, so even if we have made a change and they have not met with acceptance - I already answer questions - if the changes in promotion and evaluation have not met with acceptance, we simply withdraw from such changes. We don't force anything. But what reform gives, apart from improving the quality of education, is really that we save jobs for teachers. That's over 20,000. new teaching posts. And it's worth it. It also sounds very strong here - we hear that - these raises are too small. They asked why so little. So here's what I'm gonna say. Indeed, 21% compared to March 2018 may not be enough, but this is a strong, significant increase. And it's worth repeating. With this raise, maybe we're not dealing with all the teachers' problems. We're aware of that. We believe that teachers should earn decently, and we believe that teachers depend on the quality of teaching and the future of our children, and we talk about it very strongly. But because of this gap since 2012 it was difficult to fix this in one move to raise teachers' salaries. I will also remind you that what we found in 2016 was your budget. In 2017, there was a slight twitch and an announcement of an increase in teachers' salaries. And as announced, we have planned to implement these increases, but because there was social dissatisfaction here, we are speeding up the payment of increases and increasing these increases. For this reason, it was necessary, I repeat, for the urgent adoption of this law, not to wait with wages. It should also be said that this also applies to the system of promotion and how teachers are rewarded. It is worth noting here that it is indeed so that many environments, including the Supreme Audit Chamber, emphasise the need for change. Participants in the round table also stress this. However, we are aware that any change in the promotion and pension of teachers must be worked out in the discussion and as part of a compromise and we will do nothing against the environment. On the other hand, such a conversation, I think, is very serious simply ahead of us. I would also like to add here that, which you do not stress, we are doing - we are in the process, we have voted it out - the reform of professional training, the reform of vocational training, the reform for which you have also voted. This reform is progressing in a planned manner. And it's also worth telling you what we found. 30%/40% graduates of vocational schools, today's industry, but then even professional and technicians, in fact, were hit by unemployment. And it is also true that everything we make will not bring positive changes at once. This takes time to see the fruitage of these changes, the fruitage of the reform. But the fact that there's no layoffs, that we're replaying high school, that we're not losing schools, these are things that were very important to us. I remember a big discussion here, too. At the time, I was very much involved as a representative of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. We said there was a need for good supervision, that no curatoria should be removed, no supervision should be removed. We brought those things back. We're consistent. We discuss with Poles and prepare the program we implement. If we carry out a very large operation, which is education reform, it will of course cost everyone a lot, a lot of effort. There's a question here that sounded like a big question: Where's the money for the raises? So, $9.6% raise for teachers. will be guaranteed as part of the budget transfers. And it does not concern, as the Member from the budget committee said, the budget of the Minister of Health - I think it was a slip - but also not the Minister of Education, but it is the 82nd budget, 758th department. And that's where the money will be provided according to the calculations. It's over... I mean, these increases and all these changes are going to cost over 1 billion. They will mostly be covered by increased subsidies. This subsidy will result not from changes in the budget, but from budgetary transfers, and will be carried out by the finance committee. So these are the arrangements that we have with the Ministry of Finance and with the Prime Minister, and we could therefore propose such changes. As far as parenting is concerned, those entitled to receive an allowance for parenting, we do not change anything, but it is worth saying that this raise, here also the rapporteur Dolata spoke about it, will apply to those who are entitled, i.e. 97% Teachers will receive in different ways, but a determined, increased supplement for their upbringing. And that's what we've always stressed, which is to appreciate the educational role of school, to appreciate the role of educator. I don't think you can say that either - and I can't agree with that - put things in such a way that there is a government, there is a government and some finance education and others pay for it. We all invest in education, we all invest in education. It is true that these expenditures are increasing in the state budget and in the government budget, but these are the proportions of about 70 - the state, 30 - the local government. Of course, there are more and less, but these are roughly the average proportions. It is also worth saying that the condition of local governments has definitely improved, but we know that not all, therefore it does not depend, as some Members say here, on what someone is hosting in the local government, just depends on the economic situation, location and location. Quite different are some municipalities near Warsaw or Wrocław, or some municipalities far away, e.g. small gminas in the former voivodship of Jeleniogórski. And these municipalities are investing very strongly in education and need to be supported precisely by looking at the model of funding education under subsidies, hence there is only a provision which in this law on local government finances indicates that we will, of course, agree on a subsidy to take account of the financial situation of local governments, because there are indeed some local governments that can afford a lot of money, big expenditure on education, and there are also some where we would like these expenses to be, and they simply need to be supported in the world. Similarly, we are ready to talk about the distribution of subsidies, which will include not only the number of students in the algorithm, but also the number of branches to support these local governments and schools. It's not necessarily about local governments, because small schools are in different places, and it's about not supporting a lot of numbers, but a smaller number of classrooms. This is actually a big challenge for us. I wish I could still be here... I'm looking at the questions. Mostly, the question was where the funding would come from and why so little. That's it today... When it comes to answering the question of why so little, I can promise you that this is not our last word. In this respect, we are conducting discussions and preparing further increases for teachers that are possible for the state budget. All those who support this bill, enjoying and not enjoying it, thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u219	Thank you, Minister. I invite the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Zbigniew Dolata.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are a lot of questions here. They focused mainly on financial issues. I wanted to start by explaining one very important issue that I think a large part of your fellow Members simply does not understand. Because running schools is the task of the local self-government units. The financing of this own task comes from two sources: the own income of JST and the subsidy. What is a subsidy? From Latin: subventio... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But proportions change.]] [[Oh, not nice, not nice.]] Look, you don't know that. ...this is a provision, i.e. non-refundable, free state aid granted to various entities: local government units, political parties. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is really impossible to say that this country is to maintain education because the law provides otherwise. And now there were questions about whether the subsidy would be increased. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Let us be clear: How much do local governments give?]] Of course the subsidy is increased. It won't be. It's just increased. Let's compare. In 2015, i.e. in the last year of the Platform's government, it was PLN 40 billion, and in 2019, PLN 46 billion, i.e. the subsidy increased by PLN 6 billion over the last few years. And that's one thing. Second line. The own income of local government units has increased. Let's compare. In 2016 it was PLN 107 billion and in 2018 - PLN 124 billion. I can give you concrete examples of individual local government units and to what extent they even increased their participation in PIT... [[Okay, but what difference does that make? What difference does that make?]] I am an envoy from Wielkopolska, I live in Gniezno. The participation in PIT Poznań in 2015 amounted to PLN 666 million, in 2018, PLN 879 million, i.e. PLN 213 million more. My city, Gniezno: participation in PIT in 2015 amounted to PLN 45 million, in 2018 - PLN 62 million. Let's take a look at the counties. Gniezno County: participation in PIT 2015-22.6 million PLN, in 2018 - 31 million PLN, i.e. by 8.5 million PLN more. Gniezno rural municipality: participation in PIT in 2015 - PLN 7.4 million, in 2018 - PLN 11.3 million, or nearly PLN 4 million more. So, ladies and gentlemen, the myth that local governments have some huge problems with funding educational tasks is absolutely unauthorized. [[And local governments only finance education?]] You know that very well. I hear from this tribune that it is better to allocate government budget resources to infrastructure investments than to education. This, in my opinion, is really unacceptable, because the money spent on education is the best possible investment. This is an investment in our young people, in our children. There's no better investment. [[Then let the government invest what a good investment it is.]] If the municipalities' councils decide what the funds are spent on, they should assess what is most important from the point of view of the residents who choose them. [[Just like the government, sir.]] The inhabitants also choose them to finance educational tasks and to bear the costs. This is, as I said, the best possible investment. So, first of all, when it comes to sources, it is not so - as the Minister said - that the cost of increases is shifted to local government units. That is not true. The funds for these increases are provided in the state budget... [[Where?]] That's what the Minister said. [[Where?]] Here's another line. Mr Galla asked how much the increases would cost. The Minister said that over PLN 1 billion, PLN 1.2 billion. Mr Galla, when we are here with his questions, pointed out as an example of the problems of local governments with funding educational tasks of Komprachcice commune, because she lives there, but this is a particular example, because this municipality has been reduced, so the resources that the municipality has are just smaller. Other municipalities, powiats and voivodships are the beneficiaries of the economic growth that we have thanks to the rule of law and justice. More questions. Mrs Wróblewska asked what percentage of teachers would receive a higher salary for their upbringing. It's going to be a huge majority, 97%. teachers will receive this higher supplement, because only in the case of 3% teachers this allowance is above 300 PLN, and this is the minimum we introduce in this amendment. Another question. Mr Grunkle... I've already answered that. The question was why the government is making increases at the expense of local governments. As I said, this is not at the expense of local governments. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek asked why this raise is so low. Such a question from the Member's mouth, from the politician, from the Member who is not the first term of office here... She was in parliament at the time of the Platform's and PSL's governments, at a time when the wages in the budgetary sphere were frozen. Today we're giving a 15% raise. on the 2019 scale. This is, as I said, the biggest raise in history. No other government has ever given my environment, my colleagues and my teachers a bigger raise. [[But for three years, you've been giving up. Now you're chasing.]] Now the question of Mr Wojciech the King, who fears that the increase will be paid only until 31 December. I'm calming you down, sir. This is an increase which, of course, goes to the following years, and as Minister Marzena Machalek said, the Ministry of Education and the Government are working to ensure that in the following years, of course, if voters again trust the Law and Justice, in which I deeply believe, there are further increases, in 2020, 2021, 2022, etc., etc., etc. Mrs Krystyna Shumilas. Actually, it wasn't a question, it was a statement that this bill was being processed too quickly. It's a matter of judgment or too soon. I think it's just right from the teacher's point of view. Because I think that's what we're all about, so that these increases can be paid from September 1st, and that's why we had to process this bill so that we could make it in time to pay out these funds to the teachers. So I think this charge is missed. And there was also in Mrs Shumilas' mouth the charge that we are withdrawing from our own ideas. [[Why, aren't you retreating?]] I will say, referring to what Mrs Machalek has already said, that we really need to appreciate the fact that we are able to withdraw from solutions that have not worked out, unlike the formation that Mrs Szumilas represents and which has never withdrawn from completely fatal ideas, for example from increasing the retirement age, from imposing a school obligation on 6-year-old children. Then the Poles mobilized, gathered signatures under referendum requests. You just threw those signatures in the trash. And the political effect was that you lost the 2015 election. [[900,000. You threw the signatures on the middle school thing in the trash.]] We listen to the voices of the public, to the voices of Poles, and that is why we correct these solutions, which, as I said, in this case did not work out. The other questions were actually repeated. What's most important is that these raises are necessary. This is what the state budget can afford right now, and it's the highest in history. They aim to increase the prestige of the teacher's profession, and the teacher, who will be properly motivated, also taking into account the salary, will be a teacher who will work well and will care about the quality of education, education of our children. At the end of the day, I think that's the point of everyone in this room. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u221	Thank you, sir. And here you are, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Speaker! You did not understand what the Members were talking about here. If it really is what you have indirectly admitted here, that it is the local governments that will give teachers a raise, please do not say that the government has done anything about them. You say the government's income is rising. Yes, they are growing, but the cost of operating these local governments is also rising. There are a number of employees who raise the minimum wage, who also want to earn more and who need to be raised. There are higher operating costs related to the significant cost of media prices, e.g. It's about a loud increase in electricity prices. We're about to pay more for street lighting and other consequences. But, for example, you've been calling yourself to the city of Gniezno. In the district of Gniezno, the subsidy grows, as in all municipalities, avalanche. In 2018, the district added PLN 8 million to education. In 2019 it is [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's already 10,200,000. without raises, because these increases in subsidies were not included. So what do local governments have to do? Make more money from your budgets at the expense of other important things that will not be realized in the city or in the municipality.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u223	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Dolata.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, unfortunately, Mrs Hennig-Kloska did not understand this statement and this correction did not explain anything, on the contrary. Madam President, I have made it clear - and this is confirmed, but I would like to ask you to really read into the bill and in the justification - that the costs of this increase will not be the costs that will be borne by local government units, but only those guaranteed in the budget of the State. Minister Machalek told me what it looked like. Listen and read with understanding... [[Why aren't you serving where? If they are, where?]] ...and then the Member will not repeat these untruths indefinitely. [[Game in the hall, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u225	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Nuclear Law and the Fire Protection Act (prints No. 3237 and 3503). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Nuclear Law and the Fire Protection Act. The draft is contained in print No 3237 and the committee's report in print No 3503. The project was addressed to first reading on 20 February and its first reading in the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry took place on 12 March. Following detailed work on the project, the Commission shall first submit a report in its special sub-committee, and thereafter in full composition. It should be noted that the deadline for notification had not expired for this print project 3237 at the start of parliamentary work. In anticipation of the final position of the European Commission, we have therefore fired work in the subcommittee so that the final report of the subcommittee can be adopted after taking into account any comments resulting from the notification. These, however, did not come in. The subcommittee report was adopted on 15 May and the committee report on 11 June. The report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry was adopted by 13 votes in favour, with three abstentions and no votes against. High Izbo! This amendment aims to ensure the highest possible level of nuclear safety and radiological protection in Poland in order to adapt this level to European and global standards. The Act implements Council Directive 2013/59/Euratom of 5 December 2013 establishing basic safety standards for protection against risks arising from exposure to ionising radiation, which repeals the five previous Directives. The implementation of Directive 2013/59 responds to problems which have not yet been adequately addressed in Polish law. In particular, the aim is to ensure more effective regulatory control of activities related to exposure to ionising radiation, introduction of dose limiters for ionising radiation, regulation of non-medical imaging of persons from the general public, changes in the limit values for workers in relation to new results of studies on the effects of ionising radiation on the body. Further problems include increasing the protection of external workers against ionising radiation, clarifying the responsibilities and powers of those exercising internal supervision of activities, increasing the transparency of the activities of nuclear surveillance authorities by making a surveillance control programme available to the public. Increased awareness of the possibility of contacting an uncontrolled source, informing about the actions to be taken in such a situation, and training officers of relevant services who may encounter such radiation sources. Another issue is the protection against exposure to ionising radiation caused by radon in workplaces, buildings, premises and rooms intended for people's stay, which has not yet been regulated in Polish law. The next issue is to increase the safety of the use of ionising radiation for medical purposes and to ensure protection against exposure related to naturally occurring radioactive substances, including substances related to mining activities. High Izbo! The second Directive 2014/87/Euratom of 8 July 2014 amending Directive 71 of 2009 was implemented in this project following the disaster of the Fukushima nuclear power plant. It aims to establish a Community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear installations. Its implementation will help prepare for the possibility of major accidents in European nuclear facilities and address nuclear safety problems, among others. as regards: the introduction of an obligation for an undertaking which carries out activities consisting in the construction, commissioning, operation or decommissioning of a nuclear installation to ensure that its subcontractors and suppliers maintain personnel resources at a level suitable for carrying out tasks for that entity. This also applies to the extent to which an entity is responsible for the activities of suppliers and subcontractors. Another issue is the introduction of an obligation to use in the design, location, construction, commissioning, operation, including repairs and modernisation, and the elimination of technical and organisational solutions which will ensure the prevention of accidents at all stages of the operation of a nuclear facility and, in the event of an accident, reduce the effects and avoid early or large radioactive releases. Another issue is the introduction of management systems that will give the right priority to nuclear safety, facilitate the verification of safety principles and practices and the timely reporting of safety concerns by staff. Very often it is that workers notice certain things, so they must be able to report matters that raise their doubts. And all such remarks and signals should be considered with the utmost care within the responsible entity, because such signals often avoid the threat which is tragic for the population of people exposed to nuclear activities. Another issue is the introduction of systematic and regular re-assessment of the safety of a nuclear facility and the introduction of periodic self-assessments and international peer reviews on selected aspects of the safety of nuclear installations. This is a very large group of issues which, I will remind you, are implementing Directive 87 of 2014. Other amendments made to this Act are based on the 2013 report of the IRRS, the International Atomic Energy Agency, and concern inter alia. rules for carrying out activities by entities from the European Union which provide services in this field, i.e. to the extent related to the occurrence of nuclear radiation, in Poland. Another issue is the comprehensive regulation of planning and emergency procedures and the introduction of a statutory mandate for the adoption by the Council of Ministers of a nuclear safety strategy. It is also a matter of introducing the grounds for dismissing the President of the Agency and the term of office of the President of the Agency into the Act. Of course, we're talking about an atomic energy agency, I'm sorry about the State Atomic Agency. There is also a revision of the rules on the waste fund and a revision of the rules on the physical protection of nuclear installations. High Izbo! During the work of the subcommittee, five amendments were made to the draft at the commission stage and eight earlier at the subcommittee stage. The law is, of course, an extremely extensive law. It is difficult here to discuss all the issues raised in detail. The length of work in the committee, and earlier in the subcommittee, shows how complicated this matter is, how diverse it is, how many areas it concerns and how many issues it regulates. Let me just say this: five annexes, 193 pages of the text of the bill, that's probably one of the major laws we've been working on. I would also like to talk about the last point, namely the article. 39th Act, which regulates its entry into force. The law shall enter into force within 30 days of the date of its publication, with the exception of Article. 2. Art. 2 concerns amendments to the Fire Protection Act, i.e. the inclusion of a national fire-fighting system in the fight against nuclear risks. The new features of the Fire Protection Act will enter into force on 1 January next year. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I would like to ask that the draft law contained in the committee's report in print No 3503 be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u227	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Kubów, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u228	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club as regards the government draft law amending the Act on Nuclear Law and the Fire Protection Act, in print no. 3237 and 3503. The amendment aims to implement into national law the provisions of the BSS Directive establishing basic safety standards to protect against the risks arising from exposure to ionising radiation and the NSD Directive establishing a Community framework for nuclear safety, nuclear installations, and to make other legal changes with regard to nuclear safety and radiological protection resulting from the evaluation of existing legislation. The most important solutions are to protect against exposure to ionising radiation caused by radon in workplaces, buildings, premises and other spaces intended for humans, to change the limit values for workers due to new results of studies on the effects of ionising radiation on the human body, or to introduce limiters for ionising radiation doses. The changes also concern increasing the protection against ionising radiation of external workers or increasing the transparency of the activities of nuclear surveillance authorities by making the surveillance programme available to the public and increasing the information to be taken in situations of contact with an uncontrolled source, i.e. an abandoned or missing radioactive source, as well as training officers of relevant services who may encounter such sources. The amendment also introduces protection against exposure to naturally occurring radioactive substances, including those associated with mining activities. In the case of the Fire Protection Act, the amendment concerns the content of the article. 14 by adding paragraph. 1b with the following content: The national fire-fighting system shall be involved in the eradication of the threat, including rescue operations, in the event of a radiation incident. In this way, the tasks of the national fire-fighting system will be extended to contribute to the eradication of hazards, including rescue operations, in the event of a radiation incident. In the current state of law, there was no service intended to act in the event of a radiation incident, and so far the actual preparation of the units of the State Fire Service had no statutory authority. The proposed wording of the provision will allow for precise identification by the Chief of the State Fire Service of tasks, responsibilities and rescue procedures in the event of the involvement of the forces and resources of the State Fire Department during the operation on-site of the radiation incident. The measures put in place will ensure the highest level of radiological protection for workers, patients and the general public. This is a very good project, which is why on behalf of the Law and Justice Club I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u229	Thank you. And I invite Mrs Alicia Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Act on Nuclear Law and the Fire Protection Act is a project whose consultation lasted in medical environments for 4 years. And in total, a very good compromise has been reached. The project concerns the implementation into national law of Council Directive 2013/59 Euratom of 5 December 2013 establishing basic safety standards to protect against the risks arising from exposure to ionising radiation and repealing five Directives, the implementation of Council Directive 2014/87/Euratom amending the Directive establishing a Community framework for nuclear safety of nuclear installations, as well as other legal changes with regard to nuclear safety as regards the report of the IRRS mission carried out in Poland in 2013 by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The Act lays down specific rules for the protection of persons against the risks arising from the use of ionising radiation for medical purposes or for imaging at medical level. Ionizing radiation may pose a particular risk to human life and health. The safety of both staff and patients is important. The exposure activities are divided into several categories. Category 1 covers activities related to exposure to radiation events on the premises of an organizational unit. The second category covers activities occurring within the unit, but with exposure of the general public to stochastic effects of radiation. I'm not going to discuss this in detail because there's little time, and it's all in the bill. Category 3 includes only events related to the exposure of an entity. This also applies to students, students, trainees of medical or technical universities. Ladies and gentlemen, these doses have been determined for employees, students, students and apprentices. In conclusion, the Act protects the health and life of people who come into contact with ionising radiation in our country based on European Union standards. The Civic Platform Club will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u231	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u232	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Act on Nuclear Law and the Fire Protection Act, print no.3237. The proposal concerns the implementation into national law of the provisions of the Council Directive of 5 December 2013 laying down basic safety standards to protect against risks arising from exposure to ionising radiation and amending five Directives, the implementation of the provisions of Council Directive 2014/87/Euratom of 8 July 2014 amending the 2009 Euroatom Directive establishing a Community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear installations, other legal changes with regard to nuclear safety and radiological protection resulting from the evaluation of the existing provisions, in particular to the extent indicated in the report of the IRRS mission carried out in Poland in 2013 by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The most important solutions of this law include: ensuring more effective regulatory control; introducing dose limiters for ionising radiation; changing the limit values for workers; increasing protection against ionising radiation; clarifying the responsibilities and powers of persons exercising internal supervision of activities; increasing the transparency of the activities of nuclear surveillance authorities; protecting against exposure to ionising radiation; increasing safety when using ionising radiation for medical purposes; ensuring protection from exposure to naturally occurring radioactive substances; requiring radiation protection training. The measures put in place will ensure the highest level of radiological protection for workers, patients and the general public. The identification of risks related to naturally occurring radioactive substances will enable effective planning and implementation of protective measures. In addition, the introduction of new emergency planning rules will allow for a quicker and more effective response to the occurrence of a radiation event and will enable appropriate response to the situation of the planned construction of a nuclear power plant in Poland. In summary, the draft law on amending the Act on Nuclear Law and the Fire Protection Act of the Kukiz club15 will support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u233	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska gave her position in writing. Mrs Ewa Lieder, too. No. Is Mrs Ewa Lieder here? There isn't. So we move on to asking questions. Question time - one and a half minutes. If anyone else would like to sign up, please. First Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about natural radiation from water like streams, rivers. How many places are there in Poland where the level of radiation in a given water is within or slightly above the norm? I ask because a child with cancer was admitted to the hospital, and the parents later went to court. During the trial, the expert asked whether this could have affected cancer or not. The answer must have been obvious that it could, but it didn't have to. So you can't take that as a factor. The effect was that in this village where people bathed in this water, drank it, actually used it for everything, because there was no other water source, a deep well was dug. Are there such cases in Poland, I cannot necessarily declassify what place it was, but are there any cases that in Polish villages or towns there is a shot from waters in which we have natural radiated at the limit of normal? It was even slightly above the border, but it was not yet an indication to close. It was the father of this child who caused the well to actually be dug. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the use of this water has been banned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u235	Thank you. And I invite Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act of Procedure introduces into Polish law a solution, which has not yet been included in it, regulated, for example. an obligation to measure the concentration of radon indoors, in buildings. This is undoubtedly a step in the right direction, as it will have a positive impact on ensuring a higher level of radiological protection for workers, the population, patients exposed to ionising radiation. It is well known that the implementation of the proposed measures will entail a burden on the state budget of 9 and 15 million a year. The additional costs are also to be borne by entrepreneurs, mainly those involved in buying and processing metal scrap. I wanted to ask: Are there any concrete calculations in this regard? How's it gonna be with these entrepreneurs, how are these costs gonna go down? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u237	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr. Michał Kurtyka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u238	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. Some go slightly beyond the legislative matter, as is the case with the first question from the Member. I will kindly ask you to refer them rather to the Water Law, because this law, on which we are proceeding today, does not make sense strictly of the standards in this regard. However, it is true that there is a slight variation. All radioactive isotopes function in a normal way in nature, therefore in e.g. Sudetes have slightly higher concentrations, but still, according to my best knowledge, there is absolutely no threat here. Moreover, these places are subject to appropriate checks, and therefore it does not appear that wherever the situation may carry any risk. If there is a need, so to speak, to verify it at the local level, at a particular location, I think it is simply necessary, Madam, to return to the relevant government agents and to carry out such control. On the other hand, in a systematic manner this is not the subject of the resolution of this law, nor does it seem to be of any particular concern to us. Thank you very much, Madam President, for the question concerning radon, also concerning the adaptation of companies. In most cases these adjustments have already taken place. In their best interests, these entrepreneurs have already adapted their operations to better analysis, to increase the safety of the use of radioactive materials, also in places where this could have occurred in any way, so we do not see any significant impact. Moreover, even if they were, these costs are distributed. We have two years to ensure that this bill and its rigors, as far as private entities are concerned, function. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u239	Thank you very much, Minister. And please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the representatives of the clubs for voting in favour of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, conflict, but this is our common concern to ensure that Poles are protected from unwanted actions. For the law to be clarified enough to be an effective tool in the hands of the public authorities in order to provide protection against ionising radiation for the Polish community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u241	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u242	The PSL-UED parliamentary club supports and votes in favour the assumptions contained in the government bill amending the Act on Nuclear Law and the Fire Protection Act. However, when taking advantage of the opportunity, attention should be paid to the fact that the government's environmental action is not consistent. Firstly, the government does not implement the provisions of the law on ratification of the Doha Amendment, which were intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Poland. We would like to remind you that in six months it will be 2020 in which emissions are expected to be 30% lower. We already know that this is not going to happen, which will result in huge penalties resulting in increases in electricity prices. We therefore ask the Minister to explain what the government has done about reducing CO2 emissions to the atmosphere and how it intends to explain in the EU the failure to act as a result of the so-called. the Doha Amendment. Secondly, how does the procedated law apply to the government's multi-annual coal mining programme, with coal consumption in Poland in 2030 at the current level of 70 million t per year? Thirdly, does the government intend to implement the national programme for the development of renewable energy sources proposed more than 3 years ago by the Polish People's Party? Fourthly, if we want to consistently take care of the health of Poles by reducing harmful radiation in the atmosphere, the regulation of 9 November 2010 should be amended by adding the construction of mobile telephone masts to the list of investments requiring environmental decisions and environmental impact assessment. The current legal situation allows the location of base stations in general everywhere, even local authorities cannot refuse to grant permission to build them. We therefore call for regulation and a solution limiting the possibility of building a mobile telephone station at a distance of at least 300 m from human residences and natural sites. In conclusion, we will vote in favour of the proposed bill, but we demand comprehensive solutions to reduce pollution and to implement them consistently.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u243	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Crisis Management Act (prints No 3476 and 3532). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Crisis Management Act. The draft is contained in print No 3476 and the report of the joint committees - in print No 3532. The project was first read on 29 May this year, and on 12 June, that is, yesterday, it was first read in the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The joint committees shall submit a report following detailed work on the project. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project, which the committees were working on, is intended to accelerate the process of eliminating the risks caused by air pollution in Poland. According to a summary assessment of air quality in Poland for 2017 in the field of PM10 dust, out of 46 zones subject to assessment, only 12 zones were included in the maximum permitted level. Also announced on 22 February 2018 the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the complaint - I will remind the European Commission against Poland - states that Poland has not correctly implemented Directive 2008/50/EC, i.e. so-called. the CAFE directive on air quality and cleaner air for Europe. I would like to remind you that the Court's judgment concerns the years 2007 to 2015 and therefore the actions of our predecessors. Art is violated. 13 of the Directive, which provides that the levels of certain substances in the air, including PM10, should be respected in the zone and agglomeration area, as set out in Annex 11. I refer now to the content of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Also art. 23, which indicates the need for Member States to prepare air protection programmes, has been incorrectly implemented. Distribution of competence in air protection between various public authorities - because I remind you that this is the Environmental Protection Inspection, the local government, local districts and municipalities - makes it difficult to coordinate the activities of all participants in the air quality management system at voivodship and local level. This draft law in print 3476 is the answer to these challenges. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. The 23th CAFE Directive states that air protection programmes shall define appropriate actions so that the duration of exceedances of limit levels or targets is as short as possible. Those entries shall be added directly in Article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9ac and lips. 10. In order to enhance the effectiveness of corrective actions, the amendment complements the scope of the air protection programme with a short-term action of not less than 2 years, introduces indicators to monitor progress in the implementation of corrective actions and the effects achieved, and provides for clarification of the provisions for the introduction of a quick and effective mechanism leading to the end of the period of exceedance of limit levels of PM10. They also serve this purpose, among others. the amendments contained in Article. 1 project shortening deadlines - let me remind you: from 18 to 15 months or from 15 to 12 months - in which the relevant entities should perform the obligations enshrined in the law. E.g. It's just that in the article. 91 in the paragraph. 1 is mentioned for 12 months to be prepared and presented for opinion to the general public, the mayors, the presidents, the seniors of the draft resolution of the Sejmik on the air protection programme. According to Art. 91 in the paragraph. 3 Within 15 months, the Sejmik should adopt an appropriate resolution adopting the air protection programme. Also in the article. 91 in the paragraph. The 5th voivodship board has a deadline of 12 months. Within 12 months, he should draw up and present a draft resolution for the protection of the air protection programme for the zones referred to in Article to the mayors, the presidents, the elders for opinion. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4) of which the short-term action plan is an integral part. Also in the article. Article 94 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Management Board of the voivodship shall, within 15 months, communicate to the Minister responsible for environmental matters the adoption by the Sejm of the voivodship of an air protection programme and must immediately provide information on the adoption of a short-term action plan. Time limits, I remind you, run from the date of receipt of information from the appropriate unit about the level of air pollution. Generally, the time limits are reduced by 3 months. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a new mouth. Article 7a 91 general guidelines for the content of the air protection programme are added. The provisions on post-control recommendations issued by voivodship environmental inspectors are repealed because, first, it is already regulated in environmental law - inspectors of such recommendations under the mother's law may issue - and secondly, environmental law obliges voivodship environmental inspectors to impose a penalty on a controlled entity in the event that the tasks set out in the air protection programme are not met in time, so the current situation has been a certain overregulation that we are removing. Art. 2 of the project concerns the amendment of the Crisis Management Act and includes regional crisis management centres in the air protection system. In turn, the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation, in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 There is not enough time for me to discuss these issues in detail, all of which are quite clearly written. Art. The 10th of this project sets the date of entry into force of the proposed amendments, as this law pursues two objectives, i.e. Implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and amendment of the provisions added to environmental law in 2017 This is why we are dealing with different dates in the article. 10, which refers to the entry into force of the rules. Thus, the provisions which enforce the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union shall enter on the day following the date of publication - the matter is so urgent that they should enter as soon as possible. - and the other rules come after a 14-day vacatio legis. The report of the Joint Committees: the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, print No 3532, was adopted by 22 votes in favour, with five votes against, with no abstentions. High Izbo! I would also like to inform you on behalf of the joint committees that we are presenting six minority proposals submitted during the work on the project as amendments which were rejected before the joint committees. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, please adopt a governmental draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Crisis Management Act contained in the report of the Joint Committees, print No 3532. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u245	Thank you, Member. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is listened to by students from Gdynia and surroundings - from primary schools no. 13, 40 and 46 and the 1st Academic High School of General Education. Welcome. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Crisis Management Act, print Nos 3476 and 3532. The project is about speeding up the process of eliminating the risks associated with the presence of non-normative concentrations of certain air pollutants in most areas of Poland and implementing the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Poland, like other European countries, has problems meeting air quality requirements, which results, among others. from the fact that the overruns are generated by the social and communal sector and transport. To date, the assessment of the level of substances in the air and the classification of zones, as defined by the resolution of the voivodship sejmiks, had 18 months from the date of receipt of the results provided by the voivodship environmental inspectors. The project foresees that the time limit for preparing the air protection programme will be 3 months shorter. The programmes will be implemented after receiving an assessment of air quality for 2018, and the deadline for their adoption by the voivodship sejm is 15 June 2020. This was agreed with the European Commission, which committed Poland to present by June 2020 an air protection programme meeting the requirements of the Directive and a judgment of the Court of Justice. In order to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the air protection programme, the management of voivodships introduced an obligation to monitor the annual progress of corrective actions and short-term action plans in municipalities. Changes in the air quality management system by the local government and changes in the scope of the air protection programme will result in the preparation of documentation and reporting, and will allow for the transfer of monitoring of existing corrective actions from the level of the municipality to the level of the voivodship. The information obtained about the operation of the air protection programme and the short-term action plans will enable us to fulfil our country's reporting obligation to the European Commission. On the other hand, the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber require continuous cooperation with other actors and ongoing, consistent and systematic analysis of the effectiveness of corrective actions and the extent to which the objectives of the air protection programme are implemented in the regions. The amendments aim to discipline the authorities drawing up the air protection programme so that the actions envisaged in the programme allow the actual reduction of exceedance of the limit values as soon as possible in the individual regions of the countries concerned. These changes are in line with European Union law. They are needed to monitor air quality to eliminate air pollution risks. The Law and Justice Club welcomes these legislative changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u247	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club our position on this project. I would like to quote the first sentence of the explanatory memorandum: The basic objective of amending the Act of 27 April 2001 is to accelerate the process of eliminating the risks associated with the presence of non-normative concentrations of certain air pollutants in most areas of Poland. This concerns primarily exceeding the limit levels for PM10 and PM2,5 particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide and the target benzoalphapyrene. Well, there's nothing in this bill about it. This law serves only, as is the case in the explanatory memorandum, the execution of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but in fact only formal enforcement. There is nothing in this law about instruments and tools for improving air quality in Poland. It's been like this for a long time. In recent years, the European Commission's report on the implementation of environmental policies clearly states that the Polish government has done nothing to improve air quality for the past two years. Nothing, nothing. And this is clearly stated in this bill. This bill only serves to fulfil a formal obligation. It is an obligation to present new air protection programmes to the European Commission by 20 June 2020, which provide for the provision of short deadlines for improving air quality. This is really what the Court's ruling is about, the lack of determination in the programmes to shorten the investigation period to improve air quality, not any negligence, because these omissions refer to the 2008 Directive and have been examined since 2007. This is a question of proper clarification and selection of tools introduced in voivodship air protection programs. And what was done in this bill? Such a great maneuver was made - the voivodship authorities were obliged to introduce such records, then to set the shortest deadlines possible for them to meet. And then this bill provides that these local authorities in reporting will report on themselves if they do not keep these deadlines. And the same law obliges voivodship and chief environmental inspectors to impose financial penalties for non-compliance with this. Amazingly clever maneuver. First, we're gonna do it ourselves, then we're gonna have to do it ourselves, even though they're gonna do it. Unreal, because we don't have any option after that, and then we'll ask the Minister for punishment ourselves. Well, congratulations on your approach to the subject. It's a way of not dealing with reality. We hear all the time about an epic program in European, world history, about the fact that since dinosaurs, it has been the biggest programme to improve... [[Don't embarrass yourselves with dinosaurs. Dinosaurs are pledges.]] I'm offering... [[Don't embarrass yourself.]] ...to get you started on air protection, not empty talk and empty slides. This is a discrediting bill. We have tabled amendments that have been transformed into minority proposals, which first of all remove records which are non-constitutional in this law, because they require that the local government without formal, statutory powers should still oppress the municipalities, first impose tasks and then punish for failure to comply with deadlines, and these modified reports submitted on its own. If these minority proposals are not accepted, as we can expect from arithmetic, we will vote against this law. At the same time, we call on the Marshal of the Sejm to finally start the procession over the bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which really solves this problem, and has been in the Sejm for two years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u249	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak presented his position in writing. Mrs Ewa Lieder is absent. Ladies and gentlemen! Before we move on to the questions, I would like to warmly welcome the groom, teachers and students from the municipality of Grodziec listening to our debate. Welcome. [[Applause]] Question time - 1.5 minutes. If anyone else wants to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Mrs Alicia Chybicka begins. There is no Member. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask what is the actual state of implementation of the Clean Air programme, which is supposed to solve the problem of improving air quality in Poland. The reports and replies to the interviews addressed to the Minister of Environment show that within two quarters, from September last year until the end of the first quarter, not a single zloty from this program was sent to Poles. I'm already overlooking the fact that this money is not really in the national fund, nor in the state budget. But Poles were deceived and several tens of thousands of applications were submitted. There's not one left. done so far. For the programme's progress 1,200 and 1600 contracts per day should be included to meet its requirements, but only a few thousand have been signed to this day. At the same time, they are spent on the right and on the left, and during the election campaign, on clearly electoral purposes money for promotion, additional, also from the national environmental fund transferred to the Ministry of the Environment. And that's $3,600,000. during the election campaign spent on spots and commercials, and the release of a further 1,700 thousand. this year 10 million PLN was planned and contracted during the election campaign last year for the event company without a tender for organizing [[♪ The bell ♪]] meetings with PiS candidates for local government. Over PLN 5 million was spent out of this. So 10 million went to the electoral sausage, and to the Poles or the gold.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u251	Please, Mr Jacek Protas.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 3.5 years, the PiS government has done nothing to combat smog effectively. In addition to the appointment and dismissal of further representatives, the adoption of a program from which not a penny was intended to fight the smog effectively, you have done nothing in this direction. Today, when the problem is already dramatic, you have come up with a brilliant idea to adopt a law that will shift all responsibilities and responsibility for fighting smog to local government. It's really a brilliant solution. Ladies and gentlemen of the President, mayors, from today you must be careful, because you will be responsible for the state of air in Poland, even though you have no tools and no resources. Even the funds available to local governments within the voivodship's environmental funds were centralised in order to allocate them to various government fanaber. It is not enough that you have constructed a mechanism for punishing local governments in the event that they are unable to fight smog effectively, even though they do not have the money to do so. My question is, where is the money for an effective fight against smog? Where is the money of regional environmental funds and [[♪ The bell ♪]] A national environmental fund? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u253	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The changes prepared include the provision that, in the event of a risk of exceeding the alert level, acceptable or target substance in the air, the management board of the voivodship, within 12 months of receiving information on this risk from the Chief Environmental Officer, is required to draw up and submit an opinion on the draft resolution on the short-term action plan to be adopted by the competent authorities, mayors or town presidents. In connection with this provision, I would like to ask for additional information: Will the competent governor, mayor or president have to obtain the opinion of the local council in advance in the case of this resolution? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u255	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of this Act is to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of 22 February 2018 in respect of a complaint brought against Poland by the European Commission concerning the failure to comply with the air quality requirements set out in the Directive. It's about clean air for Europe. The Minister for the Environment did not take into account the recommendation of a national environmental health consultant who set the information and alert thresholds for smog and announced its own thresholds. This change doesn't bring anything. It only serves to build the impression that something is being done about it. Therefore, I would like to ask: Is the government going to prepare air protection programmes, eliminate risks and change regulations when the Minister of the Environment mocks Poles by introducing changes that will actually prevent smog warnings? [[And what are you impputing, Minister?]] Just keep it down, 'cause it's too bad you shouldn't be making yourself like this. You better tell us what concrete action the Minister of the Environment will take in the field of air protection. When [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there finally be money for a concrete fight against smog? Because the projects that we have at the moment cannot be realized, and the money for air protection still doesn't exist. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u257	Thank you, Member. I invite the Secretary of State at Michał Kurtyka's Ministry of Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u258	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for the positions of clubs, for what, among other things. Mrs Chybick and Mr Roletsky have said about this work. As far as club positions are concerned, there is a great deal of common concern about air quality. There were also many questions which actually question the division of power in Poland and the way in which public space is organized. If we are discussing why it is not the minister and not the government that impose certain solutions on local governments, then we are going back to the very beginnings of decentralisation in Poland, the role of local governments, as well as the role of central institutions. Mrs Lenartowicz, speaking of speeding up the process, was gracious to quote the introduction to the justification of this law. This law is really about speeding up the process, and if we're talking about the process, we need to define it. It's hard to accelerate something that doesn't exist. Therefore, if we have a trial, we must have deadlines. This law, on the other hand, also introduces standards. In other words, we will be able to analyse how individual commitments are implemented by local governments, which will accept them themselves, because that is the division of power in Poland. We cannot therefore contest the way in which this law is designed without going back to discussing the role of central authority in relation to local authority. The tightening of the corset, as you would have suggested, would lead us towards local governments, I think, also restricting the freedom of local governments. However, the process that we are introducing and which we are speeding up gives freedom to decide at the level of the local government, freedom to choose resources, freedom to choose the sources of funding that the local government considers most appropriate to respond to the challenges it is facing when it comes to clean air. Let us remind you that the previous transposition of this law did not lead to a speeding up of the process, because it also did not define something that is very important at this point in time from the point of view of the implementation of the judgment of the TSUE, i.e. the shortest possible deadlines. Let us finally remind you that this law does not introduce any additional financial penalties. So far, the voivodship WIÓS also had such prerogatives as to impose financial penalties, but since the process was defined in a fragmented way, there was no possibility to monitor progress, these penalties were arbitrary. In a situation where the local government itself defines how it wants to carry out its obligations, how it wants to fight air pollution in its territory, and then defines its own plan, it only allows for some progress to be made - and this is also the role of voivodships: monitoring progress. On the other hand, it is not the voivodship, so not the central instance that imposes penalties, but THE MOST. Therefore, it seems to me that here we cannot logically question this law, without undermining the division of power in Poland and without undermining the process of decentralisation, which, as far as air protection issues are concerned, has been dated since at least 2008, when these prerogatives were transferred to local governments. It seems to me, then, that as far as these aspects are concerned, we can agree that this law accelerates the process that it redefines this process. Acceleration is also based on the element that has been criticised in this Act, namely the fact that we limit the preparation of air protection programmes and short-term action plans by 3 months. With regard to the measures that are being taken at government level, there have also been such questions - I think it is difficult to disagree with the fact that investing PLN 103 billion in the clean air programme is an absolutely unprecedented solution. It is the first time that this programme has shaped, reflected real concern and really mobilises huge state resources to address the challenges of air pollution in a concrete way. So far, almost 60,000. applications were addressed to the National Environment Fund, several thousand contracts were signed. I will also answer Mr Protas' question: the first amounts have already been paid. It is not true, therefore, that not a single dollar has gone to the Poles. The first amounts have already been paid. What's more, we already have 60,000 in this today. applications addressed to the national fund the amount of grants at the level of PLN 1 billion, so this is a huge amount for which during these 8 months there was demand from Poles. Let us remind you that the entire 10-year programme is to mobilise the sum of PLN 103 billion. As regards the sources of funding on the part of local governments, they are not news. This has been the case so far. It is at this point that it is an incentive for local authorities to take advantage of the broad spectrum of funding sources to combat air pollution. We have here national environmental funds, but we also encourage you to make greater use of such sources of funding, such as PO IiŚ. With regard to short-term action plans, as regards the interaction between the mayor, the mayor, the president of the city and the relevant councils or seymists, this is also the case in which the question of the division of power that this law has shown is revealed. It is up to the governor, mayor or president of the city to define his own consultation process, which he considers most appropriate to oblige his local self-government unit in relation to its constituents to local activists. In this context, it is also necessary to read the possibility or provision of this law. This short-term action plan is in no way covered by the corset as to how local authorities will accept it. Finally, as far as the point at the end was concerned, which you were pleased to ask about the levels of alerting and information, this is a project on which work is being carried out in parallel with this law, a draft regulation of the Minister of the Environment. The current 2012 indicators of 200 and 300 are at this point being intensively consulted with the Minister of Health in such a spirit as to provide the best available knowledge at central level and reflect environmental concerns through the most ambitious alarming and information indicators. The work is therefore carried out in parallel with the work on the law. I hope that's all, Marshal, when it comes to my answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u259	In the procedure of correcting Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to correct my statement because I absolutely did not talk about imposing or tightening supervision. On the contrary. After all, in general I had the impression that the Minister had a prepared answer regarding positions that were not there, and for those who were not in the Chamber either, and they did not say anything, so I am not surprised at that. My objection is against the unlawful imposition of records and the transfer, the disclaimer of responsibility, as well as the relinquishing of responsibility for security. This is the health security that the state is responsible for and the government is responsible for. It is designed to create instruments so that local governments can benefit from them and ensure a high quality of life for their residents. I meant something completely opposite than the Minister's interpretation. But like I said, I had the impression that this was the answer to the unanswered ones, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u261	Thank you. Mrs Anna Paluch, rapporteur for the committee. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Firstly, I would like to thank those representatives of the clubs who declared that they would support the bill. Secondly, I'm going to say that clubs that don't support this bill will show their true face. On the one hand, there is a lot of empty-headedness and such false concern for the health of Poles and threats. On the other hand, when it comes to concrete actions, there are excuses for not supporting concrete actions by the government. I would like to remind you that when we are talking about instruments and tools for improving things, because such supliki here fell on the part of opposition Members, it is precisely the work of the Government of Law and Justice that is coherent and complementary. On the one hand, a thermomodernisation relief is granted to the better-cased, resulting in energy savings, lower energy demand and lower air pollution. On the other hand, we have the Clean Air programme. The Minister has rightly said that this is an unprecedented programme. Nearly 60,000 have been deposited. conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, 20,000. of these proposals is after the adoption of the management board of the relevant environmental fund and 13.5 thousand. contracts were concluded after 8 months of operation of the programme. Isn't that enough? I would remind you that we had such programmes during the previous two terms of office, when after 5 or 6 years of operation of the programme there were dozens of beneficiaries. Here we have a great deal of interest and unprecedented efforts by the state to help the poorest in the thermomodernisation programme and in obtaining green energy sources. On the other hand, I remind you of the huge effort made by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to support municipalities in the acquisition and expansion of network heat, which is the most effective for larger agglomerations and human aggregates. These instruments are still being implemented by the government and need not be included in this law at all. Anyone with minimal public experience knows that's what it looks like. High Izbo! Thank you to those clubs who supported the project. It will be, ladies and gentlemen, take real intentions, whether we care about the health of Poles or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u263	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u264	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Environmental Protection and the Act on Crisis Management. The project envisages accelerating the elimination of risks associated with the presence of supra-normative concentrations of certain air pollutants. This includes: exceed the permitted levels of PM10 and PM2,5 particulate matter, as well as nitrogen dioxide and the target benzo (a) pyrene. The new rules implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 22 February 2018. It concerns the observed levels of PM10 particulate matter (average daily) in 35 zones and PM10 particulate matter (average annual) in 9 zones (out of 46 zones in the country). Poland, like most European Union countries, has difficulty meeting air quality requirements due to PM10 particulate matter pollution. These overruns are particularly responsible for the social and communal sectors and for transport. The basis for corrective action is the resolution of the Sejm of the Voivodship on the Air Protection Programme (POP). Currently, the voivodship sejmik - within 18 months from the date of receipt of the results carried out by the voivodship environmental inspectors assessing the levels of substances in the air and classification of zones - defines the POP in the resolution. The PSL-UED Club will vote in favour of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u265	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min 36 hours 15 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that the planned item on the 23rd agenda: The report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Government's draft law amending the Sports Act will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. I would like to inform you that the planned items 24th and 25th agenda are: - Report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2018 together with information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2018 and the Commission's draft resolution, - Information about the activities of the National Media Council in 2018 together with the committee draft resolution, will also not be considered at the current meeting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Communications on draft resolutions on: - the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of St. John Paul II, - the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Karol Wojtyla (prints Nos 3417, 3207 and 3438). I would like to ask Anna Elizabeth Soboba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u266	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to submit to the High House a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliament's draft resolutions on the establishment of the year 2020 by St. John Paul II, print No 3417, and establishing the year 2020 in the Year of Karol Wojtyla, print No 3207. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering these draft resolutions at its meeting on 15 May 2019, adopted this without objection and asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft resolution with the following wording: Resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2020 of St. John Paul's Year II. On May 18, 2020, we will celebrate the century of the birth of Charles Wojtyla, known to the world as the Holy Father John Paul. II, our great compatriot deserved in the fight for the liberation of Poland from the yoke of communism. Saint John Paul II occupies a special place in the history of Poland and Europe. His determination to claim the right of our homeland to freedom among the peoples of Europe, his practical defence of the rights of our nation made the Holy Father the most important of the fathers of independence of Poland. During the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland in 1979 a process began which resulted in the rise of 'Solidarity', the liberation of the nation from the reign of communism and the reconstruction of the unity of Europe. For us Poles, the pontificate of the Polish Pope is therefore of special importance. In the teaching of the Holy Father John Paul II we find what is most important in our history. His attitude, his teachings are deeply embedded in the history of our nation. The Holy Father taught how much from the recognition of human dignity, from respect for human rights, from the ability of dialogue and forgiveness, from the building of social order in truth, freedom and justice, from respect for every man, from the defence of every human life from conception to natural death, from respect for family and the natural human relationship, from building civilization of love, from the opportunities of society and development and peace, both internal and international. Saint John Paul II was a man of peace and hope. With unusual weather and love, but also extraordinary strength and certainty, he pointed to the whole world, every community, all people, every man, how to make life more human. He taught us that no community can survive without true solidarity, but also solidarity cannot exist without love. We remember his words: Solidarity - that is, one and the other, and since the burden is a burden borne together in the community. So never, one against the other. One against the other. And never a "brain" borne by a man alone. Without the help of others. There can be no fight stronger than solidarity. We remember the wonderful moments we had during the unforgettable pilgrimages of the Holy Father John Paul II to Poland, with which, as the Pope repeated, my heart could never part. It was an expression of the immense love which the Holy Father bestowed on Poland and each of us. Saint John Paul II, while still among us, said that he would like to be remembered as the pope of the family. He constantly emphasized that the family is the greatest treasure of the nation, because it is a school of social virtues that are about life and social progress. Saint John Paul II made his teaching center care for the family and word and example taught how important is the family tradition in social and national life, a family that is a real environment of life and love. How thrilling are His words: How I desire, I, who owe life, faith and language to the Polish family, so that this family does not cease to be a strong God. To overcome everything that weakens her and destroys her - everything that does not allow her to be a true environment of life and love. He was and is a signpost for us that we can probably walk. His actions were an expression of extraordinary courage. In 1981, he survived an assassination attempt on his life. In St. Peter was shot by a Turkish bomber, most likely on behalf of the Soviet Special Forces. On 2 April 2005, with great pain we said goodbye to our beloved Pope, who went to the Father's House and, we believe, intercedes for us and blesses us from heaven. By this resolution, the Polish Parliament expresses its gratitude and pays tribute to the Great Pope. John Paul II, who taught us openness, understanding, but also courage in defending the Christian values on which Poland and Europe are based. Let the teaching and great inheritance which St. John Paul II, will continue to be an inspiration for our nation to build free and just Poland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] and I ask Members to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u267	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka has the floor again. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u268	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! St. John Paul II is primarily a pilgrim, a patron of the family and the largest of the Slavs. John Paul II's apostolic travels are one of the most important distinctions of John Paul's pontificate II. According to official data, he made 104 foreign pilgrimages and about 145 trips in Italy. As a bishop of Rome, he visited over 300 Roman parishes. While traveling abroad, John Paul II visited 130 countries and about 900 localities. Some countries visited several times, among others. Poland, France, USA, Mexico, Spain or Portugal. The total length of pilgrimages was 1700 thousand. It's a kilometer. This length corresponds to three times the distance between Earth and the Moon or almost thirty times the Earth's circulation around the equator. Apart from the Vatican, John Paul II spent a total of over 2 years of his 25-year-old pontificate. The first foreign pilgrimage of John Paul II was the trip to the Dominican Republic, Mexico and the Bahamas in January 1979, and the last pilgrimage to Lourdes on 15 and 16 August 2004. Most of his apostolic journeys, the pilgrimage of faith, began with the words: "I come as the Pope - the Pilgrim." Each pilgrimage of John Paul II in addition to special motives, e.g. such as jubilees, celebrations, beatifications, canonizations or world youth days, has always been aimed at meeting with the faithful local Church and strengthening the brothers in the faith. The culmination of all pilgrimages was the Mass at which John Paul II entrusted the nation to Our Lady. Almost a permanent part of the journey was an ecumenical meeting, as well as a meeting with young people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There was John Paul II also in the Seym, where we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the visit of Pope John Paul II. He left us the gift of regained freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u269	Thank you very much. And Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition in relation to the resolutions tabled on the establishment of the year 2020 by St. John Paul II and the Year of Karol Wojtyla. John Paul II was undoubtedly one of the key figures in the process of forming democracy in Poland and changing Europe. It was John Paul II who loudly claimed the right of our homeland to freedom. His pontificate was one of the longest and had a huge impact on modern history. The Polish Pope was remembered as a pilgrim, and he united people, religions and nations with his openness. During his first pilgrimage to Poland in 1979, he asked for the liberation of the nation from communism and the restoration of unity in Europe, which sparked the birth of solidarity, and consequently gave rise to democratisation and accelerated the collapse of the system of slavery. Today we should particularly explore the thoughts of this great Pole, the Pope, St. John Paul II, who spoke about freedom, solidarity, but also paid particular attention to respect for civil rights and rights as a system of standards and values. In one of his encyclicals he wrote: That is why it is advisable for each authority to be balanced by other authorities and other areas of competence that would maintain it within their respective limits. That is the rule of the rule of the rule of law, in which the supreme authority has the right, not the self-will of men. That is why it is so important to listen, to get into this deep thought of a great compatriot, St. John Paul II, one of the fathers of our freedom and human solidarity. It is important to stand in opposition to divisions, monopolization of the state, marginalisation of the law, placing their own particular interests above the system of rights and values. Let us establish the year 2020 St. John Paul The second year of Karol Wojtyla, will be a source of reflection on the heritage of the great Pole, St. John Paul II. Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition supports the proposed resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 my position on the resolution on the year of St. John Paul II. St. John Paul II, of course, deserves to be commemorated commemoratively by the recognition of his patronage over the year in which the centenary of his birthday falls. But it is important that he be the daily patron of our homeland and Poles. It's St. John Paul II the Great plowed the awareness of many millions of Poles, pointing to the essence of what is most important: human dignity, not material values. It's St. John Paul II's attitude contributed to overcoming systemic evil, or communist totalitarianism. It's St. John Paul II stood up for every man threatened by anti-humanitarian governments. How often we forget this over the years, and the criminal totalitarian systems are relativized. This commemoration of John Paul II is especially important today, when the moral crisis caused by the alleged equality of all multi-culti ointments, clubs of equality of various degenerations imposed in the name of falsely understood tolerance overwhelms wide circles, and the enemies of Latin civilization with all their forces undermine and destroy the traditions of Christian Europe. The most important element of St. John Paul II was a man from conception to natural death. All the evil that was done to all men and every man was called by name. He leaned over the fate of the weakest, least and most vulnerable, being their steadfast protector. Also in Poland, reminding the person and teaching St. John Paul II the Great never enough. After 1989, when we sighed at the freedom we regained, many people who had important positions forgot what John Paul had taught. II. Therefore, on his first pilgrimage to a free homeland, he called back the ten commandments of God, catechizing us again. Today, after almost 30 years since those events, it is regrettable to admit that at least St. John Paul II was also right then, many of the Poles in pursuit of good and honors stopped listening to him or forgot about his teaching, or maybe even rejected him. That is why we wish the year of St. John Paul II was not only in the resolution, on our banners, logotypes, but above all in order that his teaching would be constantly present in our hearts and in practice, in our everyday life we would carry them out. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of a procedated resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u273	Thank you very much. And I invite Mrs Urszula Pasławska, PSL-ED.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u274	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats was a motion for a resolution on the establishment of Karol Wojtyla as patron of the year 2020, which is why of course we fully support both pending resolutions. We would like this proposal, this resolution to be such an encouragement for deeper reflection and to remind the role of John Paul II not only as Pope, not only as a great Pole and hero of the anti-communist revolution, but also as a thinker, ethics, outstanding representative of Christian personalism. In other words, if we're really going to honor John Paul II, we must refer to its moral signs at the threshold of the 21st century. Today, special attention should be paid to the fact that Pope John Paul II has repeatedly stressed the importance of solidarity between people in the building of states and societies. Democracy was defined as a uniting system for all citizens, far from extremes. Exactly 20 years ago, in this very building on 11 June 1999 in the Sejm, he said historic words that a victory of democracy would not have been possible without the principle: there is no freedom without solidarity, no solidarity with another man. The challenges facing a democratic state demand joint and several cooperation between all people of good will regardless of political option or belief. These words should be very close to all of us today and should translate into daily activities. Therefore, we wish that 2020 as the year of John Paul II contribute to the healing of Polish public and civil life. We want Charles Wojtyla's person to restore the importance of telling us that building bridges between people is better than building walls. If we do not reach into his teachings, we will not popularize and will not follow his words, the year of John Paul II will only be an empty man. So let us use this anniversary of his birthday as he wished. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u275	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan presented her position in writing. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski? Absent. Let's get to the questions. If anybody else wants to ask you a question, come on in. One and a half minutes. Mr Czesław Sobierajski. You're welcome. There's no envoy? [[It is, it is, I am.]] No, you're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Draft resolution on St. John Paul II, honoring him, regarding the coming year to be the year of John Paul II, is an important accent which the Sejm of the Republic of Poland will present to the Polish people. I would like to quote and ask about one very important thing that exists today in political discourse. John Paul II said: Freedom of public expression is a great social good, but it does not guarantee freedom of speech. Not much gives freedom to speak if the word spoken is not free if it is entangled with egocentrism, lies, deception, maybe even hatred or contempt for others. Words can sometimes express the truth in a demeaning way for itself. It may happen that a man is telling some truth to justify his lie. A great confusion brings man into our human world if he tries to give the truth to the service of lies. The truth will also be humiliated when there is no love for itself and for man. I think there are politicians for us, but not just, a special, extraordinary message. We sighed at freedom of speech, speech, and we also say everything. No, this is just the beginning. First we have to lean on the values, the foundation, and when it comes to the truth, we know where it is. It's not where someone thinks it is. It's where it is. Christ is the truth, the way and the life. When we get back to the point, to the source, it's ours. [[♪ The bell ♪]] speech will be a speech of love, not hate. I think the Holy Father would want that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u277	Thank you very much. Here you are, the rapporteur of the committee, Anna Elizabeth Sobeck.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u278	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to thank all the States that took part in the drafting of this resolution and the representatives of the political groups sitting in the Sejm for their favor with regard to this resolution and the positive opinion. I would like to conclude by quoting to you the words which the Holy Father John Paul left us. II, being in the Seym: When concern for the protection of human dignity is the guiding principle from which we draw inspiration, and when the common good is the most important goal of pursuit, strong and lasting foundations for peace are laid. On the other hand, when human rights are ignored or trampled and, contrary to the principles of justice, particular interests are placed higher than common interests, seed of inevitable destabilization, rebellion and violence is sown. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u279	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of St. John Paul II from print No 3417 and the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by Karol Wojtyla from print No 3207. I have no doubt that John Paul II holds a special place in the history of Poland and Europe. However, I also have no doubt that this particular place is occupied by the Holy Father also in our hearts, regardless of our political views. The Polish Pope was not only a priest, but also a spiritual leader, followed by the entire generation. He was a pilgrim of peace, who, during his trips to Poland in difficult for the country in the 1980s, brought hope to all his fellow countrymen. His words: "Let your Spirit descend and renew the face of the earth." This land!, which I think everyone knows today, was a call of Poles to be responsible for the fate of the country and their homeland. Several months after their termination, a strike began in Gdańsk Shipyard. The beginning of communism. The 27-year-old pontificate of the bishop of Rome from Wadowice was one of the longest in the history of papacy. During this time, he visited Poland as many as 9 times, thus showing his attachment to his homeland. During all his ministry, St. John Paul II demanded the right to freedom, sovereignty and respect for cultural identity not only for his fellow countrymen. His teachings - about love for homeland, family and truth - are universal, as it is now. On 18 May 2020, we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of Karol Wojtyla. I am convinced that this is a good opportunity to remind the teachings of a man whose way to holiness was the fastest in the modern history of the Church, and to properly honor it. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the adoption of a resolution presented by the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u281	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski (prints Nos 3418 and 3436). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski, print No 3418. It was a parliamentary draft resolution presented by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The Marshal of the Sejm sent him to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading. The Committee on Culture and Media at first reading considered this draft resolution at its meeting on 15 May 2019. In the course of the work, there were minor amendments tabled in accordance with the joint work of Members of the Committee on Culture and Media, and valuable comments were made at the initiative of the Legislative Office. One thing that can be interpreted differently is the question of the number of Polish troops, as well as the Moscow army, in the battle of Kłuszyn. We have adopted such a number here, which results from the latest findings of the researcher Radosław Sikora - a historian who specializes in the history not only of the Kuszyn Battle, but also of the Husaria in general. According to his latest research, Polish forces were few. It was according to various studies up to 3,800 soldiers, but this is more formal than actual. In fact, even 2700 soldiers, of course mostly Husaria, could be there according to him. I am talking about this because in many previous publications there is even talk about 7 thousand when it comes to Polish troops. As far as the Moscow forces are concerned, they were essentially combined Moscow-Swedish forces. There were about four and a half thousand. Swedes and, of course, many more Moscows. This is why we are talking about more than 30 thousand Moscow forces, whose numbers, including rolling stock, could reach up to 40,000, although there could be fewer on this first battle line - about 18 thousand. Anyway, I don't think it's the most important thing here, but because this issue was being addressed, I referred to it. The most important thing is that hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski is indeed one of the most outstanding leaders in the history of Polish weapons, and given that he was the creator of the Kuszynska Victoria, that he was the conqueror of Moscow, who knows, maybe he was the most outstanding leader in Polish history. Therefore, the Committee on Culture and Media requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. I will read the text of the draft resolution after work within the Committee on Culture and Media: The resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski. Among the characters included among the most outstanding leaders in the history of Polish weapons is the figure of the hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski. Stanisław Żółkiewski coat of arms Lubicz was born in 1547 in Turynka near Lviv in a wealthy noble family. His father later became a Russian voivode. Stanisław Żółkiewski participated in all wars fought by the Republic in the second half of the 16th century and in the beginning of the 17th century. First he fought alongside the experienced leader and Chancellor Jan Zamoyski, participated in the expeditions against Habsburgs and Moscow, Moldova and Voloszczyznia, then he won in many campaigns against Russia, Sweden, the Cossacks, Turkey and the Tatars. He served a number of the most important offices of the First Republic: he was king's secretary, field captain, Lviv chestellan, Kiev voivode, and at the end he was a great crown captain and great crown chancellor. In 1609 he headed the Polish troops in the next Polish-Russian war and began the siege of Smoleńsk. On July 4, 1610, with only about 3,000 rides at his disposal, especially the Husaria, he defeated over 30 thousand combined Russian and Swedish troops under Kłuszyn. On 28 August, after his victory in Moscow, he signed a deal with the Russian boyars, under which the Polish king Władysław was declared the tsar of Russia. Unfortunately, King Sigmund III Vasa did not accept this agreement. On 29 October 1611 Stanisław Żółkiewski brought to Warsaw the deposed Tsar Wasyl Szujski and his two brothers who paid tribute to the Polish king, the so-called. The Russian platoon. He always put the good of Poland above his own benefits, stood faithfully on the side of successive kings, also in internal disputes, despite the critical opinion about the policy of Zygmunt III Vasa. He advocated religious tolerance and conflict relief. Stanisław Żółkiewski was the author of an outstanding work of journalism: 'The beginning and progress of the Moscow War', also known as 'The History of the Moscow War until Smoleńsk's reign. Stanisław Żółkiewski died on October 6, 1620 at Mohylow nad Dniestr, defending the Republic of Poland against the Turks in reverse fights from Cecory. He refused to abandon his comrades and to escape. His attitude in the last moments of life is tied to the maxim: 'It is sweet and honorable to die for Homeland'. He was buried in the crypt of the church in Żółkwi, the city he himself founded. The inscription on the tombstone says, "One day our avenger will rise from the bones." His great-grandson was John III Sobieski. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, recognizing the great merits of Stanisław Żółkiewski, the creator of the Kuszyn Victoria and the conqueror of Moscow, the persistent defender of the Homeland, for whom he gave his life, establishes the year 2020 in the 400th anniversary of his death with the Year of Hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski. As I said, the Committee on Culture and Media recommends that the High House adopt this draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u283	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is listened to by local government officials of Pińczów County, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite Mr Tomasz Zieliński from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski. Stanisław Żółkiewski coat of arms Lubicz was one of the most outstanding politicians and commanders of the First Republic. He was born in 1547 as the son of Stanisław and Zofia Lipska from Goraj. Like most noble children, he studied at home and then at cathedral school. After their completion, he developed his own knowledge, reaching an intellectual level that exceeded the average intellectual level of many of his contemporaries. He loved reading Horace, Cicero and Virgil, Kochanowski, Skarga, studied the memoirs of Caesar and the Council of War of Ternowski. Since 1566 he has worked with Jan Zamoyski on internal policy and has accompanied him in wars with Moscow, Moldova, Wołoszczyzna and Sweden. Being faithful to the election kings of Stefan Batore and Zygmunt III Vazie, he gained further military promotions. He became the captain of the field, and then the captain of the great crown. When Zygmunt III appointed him Chancellor of the Grand Crown in 1618, he became the first person after the King. Stanisław Żółkiewski showed personal courage when he obtained war grinds. Battle baptism took place in 1577 near Lubieszów. Then in the years 1579 and 1582 he participated in the war against Moscow for Inflanty, bravely fighting both in the field and during the siege of Pskov. During the reignless period, he contributed to the victory at the Bull. The largest military achievement of Stanisław Żółkiewski remains the Moscow expedition and the victory at Kłuszyn in 1610. Like Caesar's tactics in the battle of Farsalos, he defeated several times the combined Moscow and Swedish forces. After the occupation of Moscow, leading reasonable negotiations with the boyars, led to the actual election of Prince Władysław to the Moscow throne. At the same time, he enslaved Tsar Wasyl Szujski and his two brothers. Despite his deteriorating health, he took care of the defense of the Eastern Endlands threatened by the Turks, Tatars and Moldovans. In 1620 Stanisław Żółkiewski went with the army to the camp near Cecora in Moldova, where the heroic death of a soldier, attacked by the superior enemy, was killed at the time of his return to Poland. The fame of the hetman was initiated thanks to the magnificent speech by Tomasz Zamoyski in the Seym on December 5, 1620, which was then printed widely throughout the country, establishing the legend of uncompromising commander and politician. Therefore, taking into account the life and service of Stanisław Żółkiewski to the king and the Republic of Poland, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the adoption by the Sejm of a resolution establishing the year 2020 by the Year of Hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u285	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Hetman the great crown Stanisław Żółkiewski owes his career to Jan Zamoyski at the royal court. Quickly, thanks to the qualities of his character and good education, he was at the levels of his military career. Stanisław Żółkiewski participated in the endless war campaigns in which he showed the highest attachment to his homeland and king, but Stanisław Żółkiewski's character was neither then, nor today is judged unambiguously. On the merit side we can save him participation in the war of the Republic of Poland with Gdańsk, where he was awarded in the battle of Lubishev. He took active part in Stefan Batory's expedition to Russia and fought at Zawolocz. In the war of the Polish throne with Archduke Maximilian III Habsburg he stood on the side of Zygmunt III Vasa under the command of Jan Zamoyski, distinguished by his attitude in the battle of Byczyn. He took part in the first, then victorious, battle at Cecora, which imposed a Polish protectorate at the border with Moldova, thus creating a safety belt between the Commonwealth and the Ottoman Empire. However, Stanisław Żółkiewski's greatest success was participation in the Dmitryade, the Polish-Russian war under the conditions of Russia's alliance with Sweden. When the Polish army with King Zygmunt III besieged Smolensk, Stanisław Żółkiewski set out with the army near Kłuszyn and fought a victorious battle there. The Polish army entered Moscow, and the fighters signed a treaty under which they chose the throne of King Władysław of the Tsar. On the other hand, Stanisław Żółkiewski's participation in Samuel Zborowski's detention and execution was negative. The treaty concluded under Busza, where the captain deprived the Republic of Poland of its ability to interfere in the affairs of Moldova, Voloszczyzna and the Sevenfold, the safety belt protecting our borders from the Turks and the Tatars, was extremely negative. The last battle of the captain Stanisław Żółkiewski, fought with the Turkish-Tatatar army at Cecora in Moldova in 1620, met with even greater criticism. The decision to fight was most likely followed by the infamous treaty under Busha and the accusations for Orynin. She was supposed to bring him back a good name. The battle without much military significance, actually it was a demonstration of force, it was badly prepared and led. It ended in defeat. Stanisław Żółkiewski fought to the end, trying to control the chaos. He died in a fight at the age of 73. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The life of the captain of the great Crown Stanisław Żółkiewski took place during a period of difficult and dramatic events. The Republic fought against Russia, Sweden, Turkey and the Tatars. At the end of his life, Europe was preparing for the Thirty Years' War. The life story of Żółkiewski is the life story of the brightest Republic - full of fights, fights, lost and won battles. The Civic Platform Club will, of course, support the resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u287	Thank you very much. And, please, Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u288	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am declaring the position of the Kukiz Club15 in view of the establishment of 2020 - on the 400th anniversary of the death of an outstanding statesman and outstanding military, which could be an example in principle for every generation, especially today, the love of the country - the Year of Stanisław Żółkiewski. Of course, I immediately declare that the club will unanimously honor such a character, because we understand that it is the conduct of a kind of historical policy, which in this case is very positive. Hetman, but also the chancellor of the Crown, Żółkiewski is an outstanding character. It was a man from this 16th century education, the 16th century golden period of the Republic, in which we had politicians, military, economists, outstanding statesmen. In my opinion, this was the time when the Republic was one of the most significant countries throughout Europe, because we were drawing from Italy, we were drawing from ancient Rome and Greece. At that time the statesmen, very often educated in Italy, in Padua, in Bologna, like Zamoyski, produced wonderful fruits. I will not be like the great victories of the captain, even though I would think harder on one. This is a victory during the expedition of Stefan Batory in 1577 against Gdansk, who pronounced obedience to the Republic of Poland. The same Gdansk must have humbled himself before the Commonwealth. ♪ I wish everyone ♪ [[Applause]] They remembered. the lesson that the Rzeczpospolita is Gdansk, Gdansk is the Rzeczpospolita. And I hope it will never be forgotten. For me personally, this great man who died at Cecora, whose head was cut off and whose dead widow bought after 2 years, is an example of a man of endless sacrifice, a special man. And I have this special pleasure here... Mr Babinetz quoted the inscription on the grave of Żółkiewski, and the quote from.Eneida: An uprising from the bones of our vigilante. And just below this monument, under this tombstone of the captain, young John Sobieski was taught by his mother how to deal with some kind of systems that want to take over Europe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope that this lesson will still be remembered today, because the great-grandson of the famous hetman in 1683 showed what the true roots of Christian Europe are. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Kaminski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This speech, which we have just witnessed, is important in the context of the whole cycle of debates that are ahead of us. Because if it's Thursday and afternoon, then the Seym deals with history. Since the beginning of this term, we have been constantly voting on various, most often valid, historical resolutions. We have just heard a very clear saying that this serves a specific vision of historical policy. I'll tell you more, it serves a specific vision of politics. Because your historical policy does not even fit into any of the present in Poland, to which we have the right, great disputes between endeks and soccer players, between the realistic camp and the revolutionary camp, etc., etc. You have synthesised everything in Polish history that is the worst and creatively the worst synthesis you continue. We have just heard the voice of what we are to learn as Christians in the Viennese Victoria. Apparently, some do not see love in Christ's teaching, but they see the sword. I feel that Christ did not teach how to fight, but how to love. But I'm not a theologian. There are better theologians here than me. On the other hand, the reason why this obsessive interest in history... Just so we're clear, we'll be in support of the resolution on the captain of Żółkiewski. We will support all important historical resolutions, with few exceptions, like the one when you agreed with us, that however, it is not worth Rydz-Śmigłego for his shameful escape in 1939. And praise for the fact that PiS withdrew and did not vote mostly in favour of this resolution. But we will support that. Nevertheless, you must not close your eyes on what this is meant to be. And you're writing a story. Poland again. You're rewriting it, making it a caricature, and that's dangerous. Because I repeat and repeat from this tribune once again: politicians are not for this and they are not taking money to deal with history. Politicians aren't about talking about history, they're about making history. And I can promise that I will do everything in my power to make another chapter of Polish history, an important chapter of Polish history, in order to meet the challenges of a 1000-year-old nation, written well and written against this evil power which today destroys Poland. Though it seems to you today that I will paraphrase the words of the poet - the evening of the foggy And a starless night, you can't throw us out of our homeland. Because, as the poet wrote, how will you banish me from my homeland if you don't know her? I firmly believe that although historical policy is needed, the science of history is needed, what is primarily necessary for us, Poles, is the truth, also about ourselves. And this truth will teach us what has brought us success in history and what has brought us [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the history of disaster. In favour of Poland's success, we will, of course, vote in favour of this resolution. But, again, that's not what we're here for, to deal with forever and obsessively with history. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: What is this gibberish?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u291	Małgorzata Zwierzan presented her position in writing. I do not see Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski. I therefore close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 with the Year of Hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski. Stanisław Żółkiewski was born in 1547 in Turynka near Lviv in a family where the military traditions connected with Christian ideals were strongly cultivated. After graduating from school, he gained experience under the wings of Jan Zamoyski, who directed the path of his military and political career. Stanisław Żółkiewski was one of the best commanders in the history of Polish weapons. For the first time, he fought in 1577 when King Stefan Batory suppressed the Gdansk rebellion. He obtained the position of the field captain thanks to Jan Zamoyski's protection and participation in the Battle of Byczyna on 24 January 1588. As military commander, he has won many spectacular victories. The greatest glory was won by Russian troops in 1610 in the Battle of Kuszyn. He died on the battlefield in 1620 trying to stop the Turkish attack on Cecora and facing the prevailing Turkish-Tatar forces. The figure of Żółkiewski entered national tradition and consciousness permanently as a symbol of heroism and faithful military service of the country. His death created the legend and pattern of the soldier's struggle, the chief until the end. I am convinced that honoring heroic attitudes such as those of Stanisław Żółkiewski during his life is an initiative worthy of support. Therefore, near Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of adopting the draft resolution establishing the year 2020 as the Year of Hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u293	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of the Battle of Warsaw (prints Nos 3420 and 3447). I would like to ask Anna Elizabeth Soboba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u294	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting the report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of the Battle of Warsaw, i.e. printing No 3420. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 15 May 2019, adopted it without objection and asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft resolution with the following wording: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. In 1918, Poland regained its independence after a long time of captivity. However, it was not given to Poles to enjoy the room. The young country had to face the ruthless machine of Bolshevik Russia. 'By the body of White Poland' was supposed to lead 'way to a global fire', as the Red Marshal Mikhail Tuchaczewski said. A decisive battle of the Polish-Bolshevik war took place 100 years ago, on August 13 and 15, 1920. The heroic Polish Army led by Marshal Józef Piłsudski, supported among others by the Chief of General Staff - General Tadeusz Jordan-Rozwadowski, defended Poland's independence. Victory has also crossed out plans to extend the Bolshevik Revolution to Western Europe. According to Lord Edgar D.Abernon, this was 18. A breakthrough battle in the history of the world. 'If Charles the Hammer hadn't stopped the Saracen invasion of Tours, the Koran would have been taught today in schools in Oxford. If Piłsudski and Weygand had failed to stop the triumphal march of the Red Army near Warsaw, this would have resulted not only in a dangerous turn in the history of Christianity, but also in the fundamental threat of the entire Western civilization," wrote D.Abernon. August 15, 1920 was the day of victory of all Poles. The Church, which mobilized the entire nation to defend itself against an invader from the East, played a huge role in those days. The attitude of the papal archbishop's nuncio grew to the symbol's rank. Achille Ratti, later Pope Pius XI, who did not leave Warsaw in those hot August days, and the character of the heroic priest Fr. Ignacy Skorupka, who died in the battle of Ossow. This unification of Poles in those days was a true 'Wonder of the Vistula'. The President of the Republic of Poland Prof. Lech Kaczyński, on the eve of the Polish Army Day in 2009 said: 'In these August days the fate of our country, but also of the entire continent, was decided. It was a moment of great national rehearsal, which the Poles passed victoriously. [...] Her heroes, the real creators of the victory, were soldiers of the Polish Army who fought for everything. Finally, the solidarity and sacrifice of the whole society, which at this dramatic moment had abandoned disputes and divisions. A great, wonderful lesson on August 15, 1920 should always be valid and informative for us." The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, convinced of the special importance of the Battle of Warsaw in order to preserve Poland's independence and stop the Bolshevik attacks on Western Europe, establishes the year 2020 as the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask Members to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u295	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Kołakowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 as the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. The 100th anniversary of this battle is next year. The Battle of Warsaw and Poland's victory in the war with the Bolsheviks were events of great importance. The Battle of Warsaw enabled the creation of Polish statehood. Without it, we would not have 20 years of independence, during which the Polish identity was reborn. As a result of the Battle of Warsaw and the subsequent German Battle of October 2002, Polish and Soviet delegations concluded a ceasefire in Riga, and in March 1921 a peace treaty was concluded on the basis of it, which for the aggression of the Soviet Union against Poland on 17 September 1939 settled Polish-Soviet relations for 18,5 years and marked the Polish Eastern border. The stopping of the march of the Bolsheviks to the West, according to many historians, has been the greatest victory since the battle of Vienna. It has had a significant impact on the political shape of today's Europe. On the pre-fields of Warsaw the fate of Poland, but also of the Versailles of European forces, was decided. The purpose of the Bolsheviks was to conquer Poland and join revolutionary forces in Germany. Through the body of white Poland it was supposed to lead the way to a global fire, as Marshal Mikhail Tuchaczewski said. It is worth noting that everything carried by Bolshevik Russia could have caused the destruction of all European civilization. It is also worth recalling that Poland has won this great victory thanks to the attitude of the whole society, which in the face of the threat proved that it can overcome ideological differences and together stand up to fight in defence of the recently regained independence. All social groups engaged in defending the country and determinedly resisted the Soviet invasion. Poles were not deceived by the slogans of the Bolshevik Revolution and rejected the class fight in the name of defending independence and freedom. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The battle of Warsaw, marginalized, silent and ignored in the school programs of the Polish People's Republic, was undoubtedly one of the breakthrough battles in the history of the world. It was particularly important for Poland to maintain its independence and to stop the Bolshevik attacks, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which threatened the whole of Europe. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the establishment of 2020 Year of the Battle of Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u297	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, PO-KO. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u298	Thank you very much, Marshal. The Civic Platform Club on the establishment of the year 2020 will, of course, be in favour of the Battle of Warsaw. We appreciate what happened at the time in the prefields of Warsaw, where in 1920 the Polish army under the command of Marshal Józef Piłsudski fought back the Bolshevik attack. As has been said before, it was one of the most important battles in history not only of Poland and Europe, but also of the world. I would like to say a little bit about the thread not only of the Warsaw battle. There were also places where these fights were fought with equal passion as in Warsaw. This was my hometown Płock, where the Bolsheviks invaded the city. Civil population, scouts, young people, women resisted the Bolsheviks who entered the city. Fights took place in the city itself and in the outskirts of the city. Many civilians died, many young men died, scouts who were posthumously decorated by Marshal Józef Piłsudski. I would like to tell you that the city of Płock as one of two cities in Poland was awarded by Marshal Józef Piłsudski with the Cross of Valor for heroic defense. The second town decorated by the marshal was the city of Lviv. I would like to tell you that in the 100th anniversary of regaining independence in 1918 a monument commemorating the winning defenders of Płock 1920 was erected in Płock. It is a tribute paid by the inhabitants of the city of Płock to all those stumps who heroically, without looking at their own blood spilled, stood up for their homeland, which had regained independence not so long ago. A lot of people died, and there were many robberies and rapes in the city. This is a story that has been mentioned so far. My grandmother used to tell my mom, my mom used to tell it to me. Of course, appreciating this story, we will be absolutely in favour of establishing the year 2020 as the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u299	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft resolution on the establishment of the Year of the Battle of Warsaw, prints no. 3420 and 3437. The year of the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw, which saved Europe and the world from the flood of the bloody Bolshevik revolution and the criminal communist ideology, is the right year to give it the proud name of the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. This is a good opportunity to emphasise once again the global importance of this victory over the Bolsheviks. A small detail, which is undoubtedly a consequence of disputes between politicians and publicists, because military historians have no doubt about who would be the author of this victory, in a sense, the logic of this resolution, because in addition to the author of this strategic success, i.e. the chief commander, Marshal Józef Piłsudski, refers to the form of the gene. Tadeusz Rozwadowski, chief of staff, and other military commanders and fronts who played an important role in this battle were ignored. Since the chief of staff is mentioned, who was the executioner of the orders of the chief commander, those who carried them out in practice should also be mentioned, i.e. generals Józef Haller, Edward Rydz-Śmigły, Wacław Iwaszkiewicz, Franciszek Latinik, Bolesław Roja, Zygmunt Zieliński, Leonard Skierski, Władysław Sikorski and finally General Władysław Jędrzejewski and Gen. Mikhail Omelanowicz-Pawlenko, who were then in command of the Ukrainian army of the People's Republic. The Battle of Warsaw remains the most important battle of modern Europe in the last 100 years. If the Battle of Warsaw had ended with the victory of the Bolsheviks, there would have been a turning point in the history of Europe. There is no doubt that, with the fall of Warsaw, Central Europe would become an opening for communist propaganda and the Bolshevik invasion. Our task is to explain to the European public that in 1920 Europe saved Poland. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u301	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is followed by students of the primary school. Tadeusz Kościuszko in Pavonkov, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] Małgorzata Zwierzan presented her position in writing. I do not see Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski. Please ask Mr Piotr Babinetz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. Of course, we agree that General Maxime Weygand played a role in the Battle of Warsaw. There were also French advisers headed by Charles de Gaulle, the later famous French president, and the Kościuszko squadron of American airmen headed by Merian Cooper. Besides, attempts are still being made to show the history of his fights through Hollywood film, which, I think, would be a valuable thing, because then maybe the world would finally see how the Poles saved Europe, or maybe the world, through Bolsheviks. Is it not so that the most important role was played by soldiers of the Polish Army headed by Marshal Józef Piłsudski, chief leader, General Tadeusz Jordan Rozwadowski, chief of general staff, co-founder of the Battle of Warsaw plan, those generals, those commanders of whom Mr Brynkus spoke, but also General Kazimierz Sosnkowski, Deputy Minister for Military Affairs, who was the organizer of the Polish Army in the back room, who also led the reserve army, and such heroes as Fr. Ignacy Skorupka, who died at Ossow, like a porch. Stefan Pogonowski, who died under Radzymin. Isn't this a good time and a good opportunity, it's about the whole next year, to especially celebrate all the soldiers of the Polish Army who then gave their lives, defending Poland from the Bolsheviks? Wouldn't it be right to help and make the initiative of Jan Pietrzak to build a triumphal arch in Warsaw on the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw successful? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u303	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the committee rapporteur, Anna Elizabeth Sobecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Babinetz! You are undoubtedly right, and, High Izbo, I think, in the context of such a great victory as the victory of the Polish Army over the Bolsheviks in 1920, which at the same time was a defence of the only regained independence, it would be good to mention the very well-deserved man, Maxime Weygand, whose merits are of course much less, although in turn the merits of more than 600 French officers are important for the course of these fights. The heroic Polish Army led by Marshal Józef Piłsudski undoubtedly played the most important role, supported among others. by General General Tadeusz Jordan Rozwadowski, he defended Poland's independence. This victory also crossed out the plans to export the Bolshevik Revolution to Western Europe, as I have already mentioned in my resolution. Thank you all very much for your comments, for your positive views, and I ask you to vote on this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u305	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 as the Year of the Battle of Warsaw, prints no. 3420 and 3437. In 1920 one of the most important battles, not only in Poland's history, but also in the history of the world, took place on the prefields of Warsaw on 13 and 15 August. According to Edgar D.Abernon, British politician, diplomat and writer, the battle, also called the miracle of the Vistula River, is the 18th breakthrough battle in the history of the world. As a result, Poland, whose heroic troops led by Marshal Józef Piłsudski, opposed the Red Army, retained its regained independence in 1918 and Western Europe was protected from spreading on its territory of Bolshevism. In the resolution, the authors quoted the words of the dead. Professor Lech Kaczyński, who in 2009 on the eve of the Festival of the Polish Army pointed to the unity and self-sacrifice of soldiers who, years ago, abandoned disputes and differences, stood up for the future and won. I fully agree that this great, wonderful lesson on 15 August 1920 should always be valid and informative for us. In 2020 we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of this event, which, according to many political writers, has withdrawn the direction of the Bolshevik clock. Circle of Free and Solidarni supports the draft resolution presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u307	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of 2020 Year Roman Ingarden (prints No 3419 and 3439). I ask Mr Jack the World to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the establishment of the Year 2020 by Roman Ingarden. The project was presented in print No 3419. Ladies and gentlemen! Next year marks the 50th anniversary of the death of Roman Ingarden, an outstanding philosopher, some say that the most outstanding Polish philosopher and certainly an extraordinary intellectual. The Senate of the Jagiellonian University, with which Prof. Ingarden was associated, took the initiative to celebrate this round anniversary so that 2020 would be named Roman Ingarden's Year. This idea was picked up by a group of Members of the Law and Justice, on whose behalf I had the honour of presenting a draft resolution to the committee, which was at its meeting on 16 May this year. Following minor corrections, the draft resolution was adopted unanimously. When I reported during the committee meeting, the draft resolution, in work, in life, the achievements of Roman Ingarden included me in particular his intellectual uncompromisingness. It was a man who came to live in difficult, turbulent times and who kept a uniform, consistent, consistent way of thinking despite various adversities. It wasn't easy for him. At the beginning of his career in the Second Republic of Poland, several times until 1933 he waited for the appointment of a university cathedral, even though he had already had huge achievements. World War II soon came, when for obvious reasons it was excluded from scientific work, but it was not taken away from its independence of thought and spent this dark time working on its standard philosophical work. Shortly thereafter, communism came and already in 1950 Marxists removed Professor Ingarden from university work, but he did not waste that time working intensively on Kanta's translation. It was only from 1956 until his death that he could work quietly for several years, ride around the world with lectures, participate in symposiums. It is a good custom that the Sejm of the Republic honors in this way, so it makes patrons of the year, characters important, unusual for Polish science, culture, history, often little known or not known at all. In this way, we honored Irena Sendler, a just one among the nations of the world. We honored the completely unknown, yet outstanding, great scientist, chemist Jan Czochralski. This year we are reminded of the character of the extraordinary, outstanding writer Gustav Herling-Grudziński. Without a doubt, the character of Prof. Roman Ingarden is part of this cycle. Few people like Professor Ingarden deserve to be the patron of the year. The Committee on Culture and Media, of course, asks the High Sejm to adopt this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u309	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the establishment of the year 2020 by Roman Ingarden. Commemorative resolutions of the Sejm most often refer either to important and groundbreaking events, such as: The Battle of Warsaw, which is important for the history of Poland and Europe, is either aimed at reminding and commemorating people, most often creators, who left material works visible after themselves, which delight with their beauty, like paintings, their plot, like novels, their skillfully composed word, like poems. It is rare for us to pay tribute to those who have left most of their thoughts behind. Although Roman Ingarden, for it is a procedated resolution, left behind a wealth of material achievements in the form of numerous books and articles, he left behind a fixed thought in them, because thought and thinking is about philosophy. We can be proud that Roman Ingarden is a Polish philosopher classified by many of the most outstanding philosophers of modern times, who gained recognition not only in Poland, but also probably even more abroad. Although the times in which he lived, as was mentioned just now, are not only free interwar Poland, where it was not easy, but also the times of World War II and the communist regime imposed on Poland. As you can see, the free and deep thought of a free man can also develop in such times. Unfortunately, these very times did not allow the outstanding achievements of the philosopher to have a wider impact on the life of the society in which they functioned. It is all the more important that next year's 50th anniversary of his death be used to remind that also in the field of the queen of teachings, i.e. philosophy, we Poles also have our contribution to the world's achievements, and Poles try to bring undoubtedly difficult issues that he was dealing with. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by Roman Ingarden. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u311	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wasilewska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the parliamentary club Civic Platform on the establishment of the year 2020 with Roman Ingarden. Roman Witold Ingarden is a Polish philosopher, a phenomenonologist with very rich achievements. He was a student of Edmund Husserl and studied philosophy, especially ontological, axiological and aesthetic issues. He was born in Krakow, in a rich family and already as a student he was passionate about literature, music, but also sports. He studied philosophy in Göttingen, mathematics and psychology in Vienna and Lviv. He returned to Poland after defending his doctorate. During World War II, he joined the Lviv Underground University. At that time, teaching and research were in the philosopher's eyes an expression of patriotism and an attempt to save the sense of life. In 1946 he received the title of professor of the ordinary Jan Kazimierz University in Lviv. After the German occupation he taught at the University of Toruń and the Jagiellonian University in Krakow. In 1950, he was removed from work at the university because the communist authorities then found his work incompatible with the existing ideological priorities. In 1957, however, he returned to the Jagiellonian University as head of the Philosophy Department and worked there until 1963. On 14 June 1970, sudden death took him out of work. At the time, he was 77 years old. Ingarden gained fame and recognition because of his considerations. He enjoyed the opinion of one of the most important Polish philosophers. He was a member of the Polish Academy of Skills and the Polish Academy of Sciences. His greatest works are about literary works and about learning about literary works. He was recognized by American scientists as one of the most outstanding philosophers of modern times, and in Germany as a leading representative of phenomenology and as a classic of philosophy. He published a total of 224 papers. Many have been translated into foreign languages. He left a wealthy handicraft legacy. Given the above, the Civic Platform parliamentary club is in favour of adopting a resolution [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the establishment of the year 2020 by Roman Ingarden. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u313	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u314	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! I present on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 my position on the resolution related to the 50th anniversary of Roman Ingarden's death. Roman Ingarden, one of the most outstanding Polish philosophers of phenomenologists, shaping the thinking of many generations of Poles, deserves to be fully remembered. The doctorate obtained from Edmund Husserl did not close Roman Ingarden's vision of the world only as part of Husserlow's theory. On the contrary, he took a broad polemic approach with the views of his master and their criticism. In a rational position, however, Ingarden did not reject other points of view. He was a model of a scientist for whom academic discourse based on well-founded assumptions is more important than stubborn, obstinate conduct at the same time. After leaving the phenomenology, in time he formed his own philosophy school, with a wide group of supporters, to the extent of its inner sovereignty, contrary to the enslaved reality around it. The views presented allowed Roman Ingarden to confront the extremely unfavorable dialogue and development of the intellect of times with the fundamental subjects for human existence. The great proof of this is his monumental work, the dispute about the existence of the world, written during the darkest night of the German occupation, as well as the translation of the "Critique of Pure Reason" by Immanuel Kant, which was performed during the period of deprivation of Ingarden's right to lecture at the Jagiellonian University. Ingarden's scientific achievements are impressive, but much more important is the consequence presented by Ingarden in terms of attitudes, choices and faithfulness to principles. He showed this fidelity during the years of the German-Soviet occupation when in Lviv he joined the activities of secret secondary and university education. Ingarden did not collaborate with the occupiers in any form. After the end of World War II, despite the awareness of the Soviet and communist occupations and the reality of the ever-increasing Marxist ideology in Polish universities, he remained faithful to his views and did a devastating criticism of Marx's theory, for which he paid the 6-year ban on teaching. The correspondence with Edith Stein certainly influenced her views and attitude. She saw the responsibilities of the man of science, but above all ethical principles in a manner similar to Ingarden. In turn Charles Wojtyła or Józef Tischner are examples of Ingarden's disciples who, without even identifying themselves with some of the views of their master, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They took from him elements of the art of discourse, causing the necessary reflection on the presented thesis or theories. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of a procedated resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u315	Thank you very much. The PSL Club does not speak at this point, nor does the Members of Modern Affairs. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski is absent. Mrs Zwierzan put her position in writing. Therefore, we have one question. Is there anyone else? I can't see. So I close the list. Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, has a question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 Roman Ingarden is insanely close to me, even though my father, Prof. Józef July, was also a student of Roman Ingarden. I have comments about this project. Namely, we know that Roman Ingarden, Max Scheler and Martin Heidegger are thinkers who came out of Husserlow school and formed the foundations of modern phenomena, while in this project, in justification, only two names are given. These are the names of outstanding thinkers, Józef Tischner and Karol Wojtyla, but they are only clergymen. Is it possible - because there were a number of outstanding students of Prof. Roman Ingarden, outstanding philosophers - to add you [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prof. Władysław Stróżewski, President of the Polish Philosopher's Society, a prominent philosopher from Krakow? This is a proposal I would like to make to the rapporteur. Is that possible? We could expand it a little bit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u317	Before the rapporteur, Mr Jacek Świat, answers the question, you will allow me to say hello to the guests of Mr Jakub Rutnicki, namely young people from Ostrorog, from the School Group. Jan Ostrorog. [[Applause]] I welcome you along with your carers and wish you a pleasant stay in the Seym, interesting experiences, as well as the pleasures of wandering around Warsaw, although it is very hot. Nevertheless, I hope it will be a pleasant trip. And now the rapporteur will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u318	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! As the main author of this resolution, I was in a certain infusion. Roman Ingarden's work is really rich, and I wanted to avoid discussing this resolution. In short, I wanted it to fit on one side of the standard printout to be as essential as possible, so there's probably a lot more of it here. Since the philosophical theme is overwhelmingly foreign to the majority of Poles and let us not delude ourselves, we do not bring closer to all the secrets of phenomenology, both we as the applicant and representatives of other clubs have particularly tried to emphasize the intellectual consequence, independence and strength of the spirit of Prof. Ingarden, treating them as an example for all of us, for the posterity. Hence, the resolution emphasized the figures associated with the Church, such as Edith Stein, Karol Wojtyla, then bishop, and Fr. Józef Tischner, to emphasize that Roman Ingarden, as a declared rationalist, was able to talk to anyone, to discuss with people even from a slightly alien world, and, moreover, to people he was very deeply connected with the thought of Christian authority. That's why it's like this, not a different choice of names. I would very much ask you not to change this anymore, not to amend it, simply because it would prolong our procession, and I would like this resolution to be adopted today. [[I just asked.]] However, of course, I accept your suggestion and I think that next year we will be discussing Professor Ingarden's work, achievements and life, so there will also be an opportunity to expand our knowledge of his contacts, influences and how many people and how many different people he has marked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u319	I thank the rapporteur very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 in the Year of Roman Ingarden, prints Nos 3419 and 3439. In 2020 we will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the death of one of the most outstanding Polish physicists - Roman Ingarden. It is in my opinion a good time to honor his memory. He was born on 5 February 1893 as a son of water engineer and teacher. He studied philosophy and mathematics in Göttingen, and during the second semester he became a participant in Edmund Husserl's seminary, one of the main creators of phenomena, under the direction of which he wrote and defended his PhD, and then returned to the country in 1918. Roman Ingarden was one of the most famous figures of Polish philosophy. He was an outstanding representative of the phenomenological school, engaged in aesthetics, ontology, the theory of knowledge, ethics and human theory. He was the creator of a huge number of philosophical works in which he raised timeless topics, encouraging reflection on the nature of man. Reflection on who we are and what we stand out in nature, passing, freedom and responsibility. In addition to the great achievement of nearly 250 scientific works, books, articles, Roman Ingarden has become famous for his unconvincing attitude, also in relation to Marxism, which has often had a negative impact on the development of his career. I agree with the applicant's representative, who at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media said that it is worth commemorating people who are not widely known. It is worth talking about them, reminding them of their silhouettes and merits, the works they have done in their lifetime, so that they have a chance to exist in our social consciousness more than ever before. Circle of Free and Solidarni supports the draft resolution presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u321	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 160th anniversary of the birth of Theodor Axentowicz (prints Nos 3416 and 3440). Mr Piotr Babinetz will present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u322	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[I'm so sorry. I've been thinking.]] It's okay. I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 160th anniversary of the birth of Teodor Axentowicz, print No. 3416. It is a parliamentary project submitted by the club Law and Justice, but it must be recalled that the initiative comes from the Armenian Association Archbishop. Joseph Theofil Theodorovich. It is a very valuable Armenian environment in Poland, it is claimed for these characters, because not only about Teodor Axentowicz, but also about archbishops. Theodorovich. I think it is our duty as a Polish Sejm to remind you that the Armenian environment in Poland is people who deserved Polish culture, to fight for the independence of our homeland, as well as working in the field of spirituality, social and political affairs, such as Archbishop Józef Teodorowicz. The Marshal of the Sejm referred the above draft resolution to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading. The Committee on Culture and Communications, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 16 May 2019, requested the High Sejm to approve the attached draft resolution. In the course of their work, Members and the Legislative Office have tabled some minor amendments. They have been taken into account. Maybe the biggest discussion broke out in terms of decorations, but it was chosen, I think, an optimal solution, so that the draft resolution as a result sounds as follows: The resolution on commemorating the 160th anniversary of the birth of Teodor Axentowicz. Theodor Axentowicz, an outstanding Polish Armenian artist, was born on 13 May 1859 in Braszów and died on 26 August 1938 in Krakow. He was a painter, artist, graphic artist and rector of the Academy of Fine Arts in Krakow. He supported great artistic talent in Munich and Paris, where he participated in the life of Polish emigration. The rich artistic achievements of Theodor Axentowicz include historical works, portraits, genre scenes, dead nature and landscapes. He also made graphics, designed mosaics, posters and stained glass windows. In the work of Theodor Axentowicz, the colour of the multicolored South-East Ends is a prominent place. Among His works are also images expressing fascination with the history and culture of Polish Armenians. He was also co-founder of Panorama Racławicka with Wojciech Kossak and Jan Styka. For his achievements in 1936, he was awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland by the Commander's Cross with the Star and the Great Veil of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. With a group of the most outstanding Polish artists at that time he co-founded the Polish Art Art Art Art Art Association - an association deeply related to Polishness and nation, aimed at strengthening Polish art and reviving artistic life. Theodor Axentowicz and in this field of activity showed how artistic talent could be used for the benefit of society. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland states that Teodor Axentowicz deserves his country well and pays tribute to it on the 160th anniversary of his birthday. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media recommends that the High House adopt this draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u323	I thank the rapporteur for presenting the report to the committee. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Joanna Lichocka will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Law and Justice Club, of course, supports the resolution on the 160th anniversary of the birth of Teodor Axentowicz. He was a great Polish artist who gained international recognition, gained recognition and fame in Europe, but also in the United States. He was born son of the Polish Armenian, Deodata Axentowicz, and Hungarian, Agnieszka from Plukarszów. He grew up in Lviv and studied in Lviv. Art studies, studies at the Academy of Fine Arts, graduated from Munich and from this Munich style, very characteristic, he was able to emancipate himself and find his own personal and outstanding style. It is known, as already mentioned in the resolution, for its passion for finding border color in Hucul culture, for cultivating Armenian tradition in art. But what was such a driving force for him to gain actually world famous were portraits. It started with work in Paris and London. In Paris he portrayed the famous French artist Sarah Bernhardt, and that's where more jobs and other very outstanding works began, but also works that he sacrificed to his wife, to his children who had won, such as the portrait of his wife in wedding costume, gold medals at international exhibitions. He gained fame and recognition to the extent that in 1901 there were in Paris, London and Vienna sold postcards with reproductions of his paintings. Axentowicz is, of course, also a Polish creator, because, as has already been said, he is the co-creator of the Panorama of Racławickie, the rector. For 30 years he was the rector of the Academy of Fine Arts in Cracow and released another yearbook of outstanding Polish artists. He knew Stanisław Wyspiański, was at his wedding, was also at the wedding of Lucjan Rydel commemorated in the wedding of Wyspiański. It was written about it: Prosperity - this word best describes the dominant feature of Axentowicz's work. So it was written in the world in 1906. He was famous for his portraits of women. He painted with an equal artistry, or an Italian florist, which great artists like Sarah Bernhardt, as I mentioned earlier. And he received many awards, received awards, also from President Mościcki, and died in 1938. And then communism came, and then the cataclysm came. Theodor Axentowicz is basically a creator someone's heard of, but to keep his paintings, his portraits... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then we need to restore memory. This resolution is also the commemoration of the great Polish artist, who gained European fame, who entered in the turn of the 19th and 20th century the great art of the time of secession with very beautiful, outstanding works. Let's remember him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u325	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u326	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Theodor Axentowicz was an outstanding Polish Armenian artist, as the previous speaker said. He was a painter, artist, graphic artist, professor and rector of the Academy of Fine Arts in Krakow. He was born in 1859 in the Austrian Empire. He died in 1938 in Cracow. The artistic achievements of Theodor Axentowicz include historical works, portraits, genre scenes, dead nature and landscapes. Theodor Axentowicz showed attachment to his Armenian origin in his work, but in his works he also inspired himself with the south-eastern lines. He gained recognition as a portrait artist, painter of beautiful women and author of scenes showing the customs of the Huculas. Theodor Axentowicz was one of the co-founders of the Panorama of Racławickie, which is one of the most outstanding works of art in Poland. He also painted a wonderful Polish message with Henryk Valez, including works concerning Armenians. In 1936, Teodor Axentowicz was awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland with the Commander's Cross with the Star and the Grand Vistula of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland in 1923 for his performance in the field of art development in Poland. The character of Theodor Axentowicz is an example of the openness of Poland and Poles to other cultures, and his works have had a positive impact on the development of art in Poland. Of course, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition supports the resolution on commemorating the 160th anniversary of the birth of Teodor Axentowicz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u327	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u328	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! I will present on behalf of the Kukiz club 15 a position on the resolution on the 160th anniversary of the birth of Teodor Axentowicz. Commemoration of Teodor Axentowicz, one of the most outstanding Polish artists, is a good idea. However, it is a pity that a substantive error has slipped into the draft resolution. Theodor Axentowicz was awarded the Order of Polonia Restituta, the Order of the Renaissance of Poland of Class III in 1923 and in 1936 the President of the Republic of Poland awarded him the Order of Class II, the Commander's Cross with the Star. In the sources of the Polish Monitory in the rankings marked by the Order of the First Order of Rebirth of Poland and in the substantive biographies of this artist, there is no confirmation of giving Axentowicz the Great Festival, the Great Cross of this Order, so such a provision in the draft resolution is wrong. In addition to the Orders of the Rebirth of Poland II and III class, Axentowicz was also awarded the Medal of the Tenth anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence, the forerunner of the contemporary Medal of the Century of Reclaiming Independence. The great achievement of Theodor Axentowicz, together with Julian Fałat, was to lead the School of Fine Arts in Krakow in 1910 to the Academy of Fine Arts, which raised the rank and prestige of this university, giving it academic status. Ten years later, Axentowicz became the rector of this university. Axentowicz exquisitely praised the traditions and beauty of the South-East Ends, Armenian traditions, including Armenians of the Republic, and feminine beauty with a brush. He was a very good historical painter. His works, in various aspects of appealing elements of Polish tradition and culture, had a wide impact on the mass imagination of Poles, among others. by a series of postcards published in the early 20th century with reproductions of the artist's paintings. During World War I, Axentowicz's eldest son Philip Tomasz died as a soldier of the Austro-Hungarian army, but another one - Jan Bolesław, who was not yet in the conscription age, joined the Polish Legions. Thus, the artist not only raised patriotic themes in his work, but also raised and shaped his family in this spirit. Axentowicz's work from the period of World War I was not only an expression of drama and deep regret after his son's loss, but also an artistic expression of great hopes of regaining his independence by Poland, as the paintings of his mother above his son's grave, the funeral of a legionary, the grave, the wounded legionary or the tears of Poland remind him of. The Kukiz Club15 supports this resolution. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u329	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Club, made a written statement. We have one question. Would anybody else like to be on the list? I can't see, so I'm shutting her down. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask the question. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Armenian community in Poland is several thousand people who played a very important role in Polish culture. It was the Armenians who co-shaped sarmackity, bringing to Poland, among others. The inherent sarmat costume - contusion, which may not be known by all. The deceased President Adamowicz cultivated the tradition and achievements of the diaspora Armenian in Poland. A special house was opened, there were various events, in different shapes and in different ways it was supported by us in Gdańsk. I wanted to ask you why these wonderful people cannot be supported in such a worthy way on a Polish scale, because I do not see so much support in other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u331	Thank you very much. Is Mr Piotr Babinetz, rapporteur, referring to this question or not? No. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 160th anniversary of the birth of Teodor Axentowicz. Theodor Axentowicz is one of the most outstanding Polish artists of the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. He was born on 13 May 1859 in Brasov in an Armenian family. He was a painter, a sketch artist and a graphic designer. He was educated at the Academy of Fine Arts in Munich under Gabriel Hackl, Alexander Wagner, Gyuli Benczura. Axentowicz became famous primarily as the author of idealized female images perfectly performed in pastel techniques and children's portraits. The subjects that appeared in his paintings were folk rituals of people living in the Hucul region - funerals, religious processes, and rural fun and dances. The world-famous painter has left behind an extremely rich creative work that is appreciated by both visitors to museums and private collectors. As was underlined at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, the draft resolution was the result of the Armenian Association's initiative. Archbishop. Józef Theofil Theodorowicz, as the representative of the applicants rightly noted during the meeting, is valuable because he demonstrates the active involvement of Polish Armenians in the life of Poland. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the draft resolution presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u333	We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 37. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws (print No 3499). Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mr Filip Świtała will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sealing the tax system and ensuring greater stability of tax revenue, including mainly VAT and excise duty, has been and remains in recent years one of the important actions taken by the government. The aim of the proposed law is to introduce additional solutions to seal the VAT and excise systems and to clarify the measures already taken in this area. In addition, the proposal proposes simplifying the law and removing some unnecessary and burdensome obligations for taxpayers. Changes are also foreseen in the Energy Law, which are correlated with the changes in VAT and excise duties, in order to improve efficiency of so-called. the fuel package. The project also implements one of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The regulations introduced will also strengthen fair competition among entrepreneurs and reduce the grey economy, which will positively affect business conditions. The first major change concerns the fuel package. The fuel package entered into force on 1 August 2016. Its main objective was to introduce solutions to prevent or restrict fraud in the circulation of liquid fuels. Changes in the so-called the fuel package provided for in this project consists essentially of the introduction into the VAT Act of a catalogue of goods for which the taxable person is obliged without calling on the head of the tax office to calculate and pay, within an accelerated period, the amounts of the tax on goods and services to the tax office. The definition of this catalogue of goods will prevent doubts as to the scope of the VAT Act and the Excise Tax Act. The changes are also due to the need to correlate the scope of the so-called application. accelerated VAT refund with the concession scope, as well as additional addition to the catalogue for reference to three additional categories, i.e. for liquid fuels within the meaning of the Law on the monitoring and control of the quality of fuels, for liquid biofuels within the meaning of the Law on liquid biocomponents and biofuels and for the category of motor fuels under the Law on excise duty. This is intended to include the so-called mechanism. an accelerated VAT refund for all energy products which would be used for internal combustion engines, including in a way that does not comply with the rules. The proposed amendment will generally not increase the obligations on taxpayers, those who purchase goods not currently covered by the definition of motor fuels, and those related to the amount of the tax on goods and services to be paid, but will only shift the obligation to pay over time. An important element regulated by this project is the modification of the principle of issuing invoices on the basis of so-called. a fiscal receipt. Invoices are currently being issued on the basis of collected receipts, i.e. collect receipts left by other customers and issue invoices which are later used as proof of deduction of VAT and increase the cost of obtaining revenue. The amendment introduces the principle that in the case of sales registered using a register, i.e. when a receipt is issued, the tax identification number of the taxable person making the purchase should be entered in this receipt. For an exhibitor who will not comply with this obligation, and for a buyer who will benefit from such an invoice and who has not previously purchased the goods for a receipt with his NIP number, there will be a penalty of 100% in both cases. VAT. This project extends the catalogue of taxable persons for whom no VAT exemption applies. Subjective exemption, which currently amounts to 40 000. The euro, is abused in some so-called. sensitive industries. The changes will apply to taxable persons supplying parts of motor vehicles and motorcycles, regardless of how the delivery is carried out, but in particular we are talking about trade in car parts on the Internet, as well as taxable persons supplying cosmetic and toilet preparations, computers, electronic equipment, RTV and household appliances and other such goods in connection with the conclusion of a contract under an organised system of distance contracts, namely again on the Internet, and taxpayers providing debt collection services, including factoring. This limitation is linked to our analysis, which shows that there is abuse in these industries in the form of the use of this individual exemption. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The regulations for flat-rate farmers are also to be revised. It is envisaged to amend the data on documents issued for the purchase of agricultural products and agricultural services from flat-rate farmers. This amendment concerns the elimination of the obligation to include on VAT invoices certain data on documents identifying suppliers of agricultural products, as well as the possibility of issuing and sending these documents electronically. In addition, it is intended to modify the conditions for the deduction of the flat-rate tax by purchasers of agricultural products and agricultural services from flat-rate farmers by eliminating the condition in the form of payment for purchased goods or services within 14 days and introducing the possibility of making such payment also on the account of the cooperative savings and credit bank of which the farmer is a member. To date, this obligation to pay was only applicable to the bank accounts of the farmer. This change is due to the well-established case law of the administrative courts, indicating that the provisions are not compatible with the EU VAT Directive. It should be pointed out that the amendments to the rules on registration of taxable persons are partly intended to clarify the existing rules, but are also intended to improve the updating of the VAT register, which is such an important tool for taxable persons who assess the reliability of their counterparties on a daily basis. For example, it is worth pointing out that conditions are added in the form of an obligation to apply for the re-registration of VAT no later than 2 months after the date of deletion and, in the case of non-submission of a declaration despite such an obligation, if, at the latest, the applicant submits all the missing declarations. The most important changes in VAT are the following: the proposal also provides for certain facilitations for bailiffs and enforcement authorities concerning the determination of the debtor's VAT status. The project provides for taxpayers to reduce the amount of the additional VAT obligation to 15% where the taxable person pays, he shall make an adjustment to the tax return after the initiation of the customs-subsistence check. The draft also provides for the implementation of the judgment of the TSUE in Case C308/16, i.e. Kozuba Premium Selection. It consists of modifying the conditions for the application of exemptions for the supply of buildings, buildings and parts thereof. The proposed project also seals the trade in excise goods which are not subject to harmonised excise duties within the European Union, but in Poland are taxed by excise duty and subject to suspension of excise duty. This is to eliminate irregularities occurring in the marketing of these products. The amendment provides for an extension of the conditions for applying the suspension of excise duty when moving these products within the territory of the country in the context of intra-Community acquisitions or intra-Community supplies. Following changes in the acquisition of intra-Community excise goods, such as lubrication oils, an additional condition for them to be covered in the country by the suspension of excise duty shall be that the taxable person makes a notification of the intended acquisition of the intra-Community goods to the competent head of the tax office and lodges an excise security. In the case of intra-Community supply, an additional condition for the movement of the above products under suspension of excise duty shall be the lodging of an excise security. It is also necessary to introduce an effective rate of excise duty on lubricants, synthetic preparations, classified as CN 3403, used so far by entities operating in the so-called. the grey zone in order to avoid the tax obligation for mineral lubricants. It's about equalizing the status of these two types of oils. In addition, it is envisaged to introduce in the Excise Tax Act amendments that clarify and seal the CN classification of energy products, introduced in the Excise Tax Act from 1 January 2019 under the Law of 9 November 2018 amending certain laws with a view to introducing simplifications for traders in tax and economic law. The following project also amends the Energy Law Act. The definition of liquid fuels is to be clarified. This is about comparing these changes with the changes that we provide for in the VAT Act and the excise Act. The proposed regulations will have a positive financial impact on the state budget. In the first year of implementation of the envisaged measures, approximately PLN 51.5 million should be paid to the budget, and in the following years it will be over PLN 600 million per year. The total revenue by 2029 should be about PLN 6.1 billion. As far as expenditure is concerned, we assume that the planned tasks are carried out as a rule within the framework of current financial resources. The exclusion of certain taxable persons in the case of VAT from the personal exemption I mentioned will increase the number of obligations. It's about keeping records, making declarations or issuing invoices. This may entail additional costs. There will be an increase in the administrative burden on companies resulting from the inclusion of lubricants in the suspension of excise duties procedure. We assume that the proposed legislation will enter into force on 1 September 2019. There are also some exceptions - some provisions will enter into force on the day following the date of publication of the bill. These include: certain excise goods and lubricating oils of CN heading 3403. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the regulations introduced will not only seal the tax system and, as a result, further reduce the VAT gap, but also improve the operating conditions. In particular, it is about increasing the level of fair competition in economic trade by reducing the unauthorised advantage that tax fraud operators have achieved so far over honest taxpayers. In view of the above, I kindly ask the High House to refer this project to further parliamentary work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u335	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and some other laws, print No 3499. This draft concerns amendments to the Act of 11 March 2004 on value added tax, the Excise Tax Act and the Customs Law. The amendments to the Goods and Services Tax Act include: modification of the conditions for the application of exemption for the supply of buildings, buildings and parts thereof, exemption from VAT on imports of goods in the event of the conclusion of agreements between the Republic of Poland and a third country concerning the construction or maintenance of cross-border bridges or common sections of the road, adjustment of certain provisions introduced on 1 January 2018 of the obligation to submit tax returns only by means of electronic communication and the impossibility to submit this by means of a declaration of other documents, the introduction of facilitations for bailiffs and enforcement authorities in the fulfilment of their obligation to pay tax on goods and services, the possibility for the taxpayer to calculate and demonstrate the amount of VAT on imports of goods in the settlement of closure, the adjustment of the exemption for gambling to the new provisions of the Gambling Act, the modification of the correction system where the active VAT taxpayers decide to re-use the exemption and the changes in the rules concerning the registration of taxable persons. The subsequent changes concern the possibility of issuing a VAT invoice for the buyer for the sale registered using a registering register on the receipt documenting the sale of the number by which the buyer is identified for the purposes of tax or value added tax. The changes also include: reduction of the tax liability to 15% where the taxable person has submitted an adjustment to the tax return during the customs-subsistence check and the possibility of benefiting from an individual VAT exemption of up to 200 000 is excluded. zł annual turnover by certain tax groups. Changes in the so-called the fuel package consists of the introduction into the VAT Act of a catalogue of products for which the taxable person is obliged without calling on the head of the tax office to calculate and pay the amounts of tax to the tax office. The proposed changes are of a different nature and scope of impact and it is therefore difficult to clearly identify their impact on the activities of businesses, both small and medium-sized or large. The changes that have been made will undoubtedly reduce the unauthorised advantage that tax fraud operators have had so far over honest taxpayers. The introduction of simplification measures and the removal of some unnecessary and burdensome obligations for taxpayers will facilitate business activity. This law is compatible with European Union law. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill during further legislative work. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u337	Thank you, sir. I invite you to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition of Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u338	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the act on value added tax and certain other laws, print No 3499. The project that we are talking about now is a project with different regulations, and it also has different objectives, because for these purposes it is possible to include both sealing the VAT system and adapting our solutions to European Union law, as well as introducing certain facilitations for taxpayers. In the bill, among others. the conditions for the application of the exemption for the supply of buildings, buildings and parts thereof have been modified by the abolition of the condition that their resettlement took place in the context of a taxable activity, which is the result of the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 2017 referred to by the Minister. The possibility for certain groups of taxable persons to benefit from the VAT exemption has also been excluded. You also pointed that out to the Minister. It has been made easier for bailiffs and enforcement authorities to comply with the duties of the payer on goods and services, in particular in situations where contact with the debtor taxpayer is difficult. And here I would like to say, on the margins of discussing this regulation, that often in the press, radio and television, but unfortunately also in the tax offices we can meet with improper use of the term 'payer'. I'm talking about the VAT payer. Very often, when giving advice at the tax office, the taxpayer hears the question, the taxpayer: are you a VAT payer? But it's not usually about the payer at all, it's about the taxpayer. Already in the non-professional press, radio and television, it is extremely important that we talk about the payer, not the taxpayer. There's no distinction between these roles. I think this is also some kind of information role for the Ministry of Finance to play. Further, ladies and gentlemen, there are other regulations here, such as making the possibility of issuing a VAT invoice for the purchaser for the sale registered using a register register from the receipt documenting the sale of the number by which the buyer is identified, reducing the amount of the additional tax obligation, clarifying the rules for the refund of the excess input tax due in an accelerated, 25-day period. The excise tax law is also being amended here, which mainly concerns excise taxation of lubricants. I mentioned only some of the new regulations, changes to make them aware that they have a very wide range of subjects. They often deserve, that is to say, a positive assessment, e.g. the one providing for taxation of the enforcement of the supply of goods if the conditions for exemption cannot be confirmed. This should be assessed positively. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Changes to the rules for issuing invoices on the basis of a receipt when introducing a specific condition are also positive. But we can also see why it took so long to change the criteria for first residence after the judgment of the TSUE. But you should have waited a long time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u339	Thank you very much. And I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u340	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the next draft law on amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a big and complicated change. The three basic laws are amended by this project: the VAT Act, the excise tax Act, the Tax Order. I don't think it's possible to address all the proposals in the bill within five minutes. But that's a good thing, because the Kukiz Club -- that's what I can say at the outset -- will recommend to its Members that this project be sent to committee so that we can lean on the solutions contained there in peace. On the other hand, I will allow myself some kind of general comment, since we are already talking about such an important tax. Minister, I checked. That's 20. Government draft amendment of the VAT Act in this term of office of the Sejm. On the one hand, there is the frequency of changes, the scope of amendments to the VAT Act, in principle a law which does not apply to all, but most Polish entrepreneurs, and on the other hand there is the level of complexity and detail of these changes. This is one of the factors that unfortunately adversely affects the freedom to conduct business in Poland, because entrepreneurs simply have to keep that in mind all the time, they have to watch it all the time, they have to read legal acts all the time. 20 government billings, probably more than 50 seym prints along with these billing projects. That's a lot of law. Hence my question: Can't this be done once and for all once or at least once a year? At the Ministry, you're probably working on your next shift on a permanent basis. Every now and then, every few months, the government offers us another revision of the VAT Act. I understand that you may be trying to demonstrate the need for a ministry, that the Ministry is working and creating draft laws, but according to the constitution, as far as I know, the legislative body is the Sejm, not the Ministry. The Ministry should organise an efficient collection of taxes, of course react, and I have no doubt about it, to the various situations that make it necessary to change these taxes. If these changes are to take place at such a rate, three or four times a year, sometimes put yourself in the role of an entrepreneur, how difficult the business situation is when, for example, it is. at one point it turns out that preparations of this category CN 3403, lubricating preparations classified under CN heading 3403 are subject to excise duty. Okay, all right, I understand you've probably identified an irregularity or so-called. Clever entrepreneurs found a gap here to avoid paying the tax, so you're reacting. It's only a question again if you've responded 20 times so far to various gaps, errors in the system, if it wasn't better to do it... I'm not saying that we should take changes to the VAT Act once a year, but at least once a year. I remember that there used to be a rule, I don't know what happened to it, that business regulations or the rules that affect this conduct can change twice a year, i.e. These laws may enter into force. I think it's gone somewhere, because the bill is due to come in on September 1, 2019, which is very soon. So much for general reflection. I don't want to go into details, because there's a few dozen pages to justify it, and there's a lot of sides to the OSR, too. You could talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, and still run out of time. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to say that the Kukiz Club is in favour of directing this project to the finance committee, where we will be able to work in peace on the various provisions contained in this bill. On the other hand, I encourage such a broader, general reflection, perhaps no longer in this term of office, because this term of office is ending. Perhaps in the future you will change your behaviour a bit, correct it, accept not only ministerial optics, not only fiscal optics, but also business optics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u341	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a time-out. 17.55. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min 53 hours 17 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 37 of the agenda. Please take the floor by Mrs Genowef Tokarska, the Polish People's Party Association - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u342	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws, print No 3499. The draft law on which we are debating contains very many changes of a regulatory nature, adjusting and detailing the procedures set out in several existing laws and so-called. fuel package. As part of sealing the VAT system in the proposed act, among others. subjective exemptions are abolished, i.e. VAT on taxable persons from the area of online sales for certain goods, inter alia. such as cosmetic, toilet, electronic, electrical, RTV and household appliances, taxable persons selling wholesale and retail parts to motor vehicles and motorcycles and taxable persons providing debt collection services. VAT clearance for the marketing of petroleum products shall be clarified and the catalogue of products subject to tax shall be entered. Changes shall be made to the rules on the issuing of invoices based on the tax receipt and appropriate sanctions shall be established in this respect in the event of non-compliance. In addition, the proposed law provides for exemption from the taxation of imports of goods under an international agreement for example. to build cross-border bridges or common sections of roads. I must say that the issues are very extensive and I have tried to put them very synthetically. It is also envisaged to regulate the tax rules for all types of gambling, to calculate and display VAT on imports of goods in the closure settlement, to transmit other documents electronically alongside tax returns, to simplify RR VAT invoices, to make arrangements for registration of VAT taxable persons. In addition, simplification is envisaged as regards the rules for making corrections and clarification of the conditions for obtaining reimbursement within an accelerated period of 25 days. Within the scope of the Energy Law, the definition of liquid fuels has been clarified by indicating that certain products constitute fuels irrespective of their possible use, i.e. irrespective of their purpose. Consequently, there will be an extension of the catalogue of entities obliged to obtain concessions and consequently compliance with the rules on the marketing and transport of fuels. In addition, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office will be able to share information covered by tax confidentiality. The proposed law introduces a rate of excise duty of PLN 1180 for 1 000. l in the case of lubricating preparations falling within CN code 3403, i.e. at such a height as in the case of lubricating oils falling within CN code 2710, which is possible due to the similar physicochemical properties of these products. The project will affect the public finance sector. According to government calculations, the revenue of the state budget will increase in the following years by over PLN 600 million. In conclusion, I would like to say whether or not the project, in addition to imposing new tax burdens, which I think are wrongly called VAT sealing by the government, brings with it certain simplification measures and the removal of certain burdensome obligations for taxpayers. Here as an example are the facilitations in the settlement of import tax on goods, the limitation of elements of VAT invoices RR or the possibility of trading these documents in electronic form. My club, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, is in favour of directing the project to further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u343	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, the first question is asked by Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u344	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no way to fail to see the legislative effort to reduce VAT fraud, but we have, it seems, a shortness of breath, because in the first 4 months, VAT revenues fell by 0.8% in relation to last year. with an economic growth of 4,6 and 4,8% - that's the estimate - in the first quarter. With your rhetoric, I could ask if this is looting. And if not looting, could it be the failure of the tax administration, the tax administration? Or maybe a change in the structure of GDP and a bit of a twitch when it comes to investment? How about procyclicality? Because, despite this high growth, we are dealing with a slight drop in his pace? Or maybe at last return in the pre-election period? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Was it easier to spend? Or maybe, like you say, you just don't steal? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u345	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We are considering another bill in connection with the sealing of the tax system, the act on the tax on goods and services. At almost every meeting of the Sejm, we amend the VAT Act. Can't this be done comprehensively? How does transparency of the system of goods and services tax affect such frequent changes in the provisions of the Act? Where is the transparency, simplicity and friendship of the tax system, about which the Law and Justice so loudly assured taxpayers? These laws apply to many Poles, who have to check almost every day whether something has changed in the act. And one more thing. The assumptions for this project were based on outdated figures. Why are we using the number of VAT taxpayers in 2017? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That was two years ago. How reliable is it to calculate the impact of these changes on the state budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u347	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u348	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a practical question. The Act is to enter into force from 1 September 2019. It introduces e.g. an obligation for the receipt to include the buyer's tax identification number in the case of the purchase of fuels, such products. But, Minister, this may mean that some traders who sell such products, under the threat of additional sanctions, the 100 percent VAT rate that they would charge, have to change these systems, buy new subscriptions to the programmes that make invoices for a period of 4 months. Where's the rationality here? Once again, I ask for a rational approach and consideration not only of the interests of the state, but also of the [[♪ The bell ♪]] business interests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u349	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Filip Świtała to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u350	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for asking. Maybe I should start with the first question asked by Janusz Cichoń concerning the alleged decrease in VAT income. Looking at VAT revenues over the longer term, from May to May, from May last year to May this year, we have about 4 percent growth, which is roughly consistent with GDP growth, but the basis for VAT is not really GDP or GDP growth, but consumption, because VAT is a consumption tax, so talking about GDP growth, that's... [[I repeat your arguments, Minister.]] I don't know. In any case, GDP growth is what counts here. The second factor that we need to consider is that, apart from the increase in consumption, which caused, among other things, here. The government's social programmes are also an increase in investment, i.e. as I read recently in the Legal Paper, the second growth engine has started. Investments result in higher VAT returns. In general, this is a very positive trend, because we see companies investing, which in the longer term will result in GDP growth, which I think we all care about, right? So I think that the information on the decline in VAT revenues is greatly exaggerated. [[From the Ministry of Finance.]] That's what you have to look at in the long run. As regards the question of, say, the complexity of the regulation, as Mr Grabowski and Mrs Zofia Czernow, who unfortunately left the room, is not quite so simple as to make a comprehensive reform and to do everything at once. This is the first issue that concerns the difficulty of making big, complicated and very complex changes. The second point that needs to be taken into account is that these changes are, indeed, pointy, but very often relate to different industries. They don't all work in all sectors, do they? This change therefore involves the fuel industry, and it is really focused on eliminating fraud. I think that, in general, the fuel industry will welcome changes because they increase fair competition. The same was true of the first fuel package. The fuel industry even praised the solutions that were introduced in mid-2016, as it suddenly turned out that the demand for legal fuels taxed with VAT has increased significantly. It wasn't a small increase. It was an increase of several dozen percent. Therefore, it suddenly turned out that honest companies have money to invest because fair competition was introduced. I think that's an explanation. As regards the doubts expressed by Mr Grabowski about the receipt and the short deadline for entry into force, it is, of course, a burdensome obligation for taxpayers, I do not doubt. On the other hand, this change of systems will take place not for 4 months, but for a longer time. It's not like after four months we're gonna have to change these systems. I would like to point out here that this decision we want to close the possibilities as soon as possible, despite all the rude fraud, such as collecting receipts at petrol stations and selling really costs and deducted VAT. That's why it's sealing in the area of, say, the gray zone. Because these are not rude frauds in the sense of extortion of VAT, these are frauds, which lead to the fact that a real picture of costs and a real picture of purchases deducted from the tax base, both in income taxes and in VAT resales, is being falsified. So it is a certain choice, sometimes difficult, but perhaps urgent and necessary in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u351	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm should refer the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws contained in print No 3499 to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 38. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws (print No 3500). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws, print no. 3500, introduces a significant change to make life easier for taxpayers. Namely, we simplify the method of accounting by consolidating the VAT return with the JPK_VAT file. At the moment, the situation is that traders who pay VAT, VAT payers must submit VAT returns and also JPK_VAT, i.e. monthly reporting of VAT sales and purchases in the JPK format. We will consolidate these obligations so that, after the change, taxpayers can send one file consisting of a declaration and containing data from the declaration and VAT records. This will benefit most taxpayers. It will simplify life and, above all, one document will become a more complete document which will remove the burdensome obligations to attach annexes, such as the VAT refund application, the information on the use of the relief for bad debts and the request to speed up the tax refund deadline. The information from these annexes will already be included in the JPK_VAT file and the tax office will take it into account and the taxpayer will not have to attach these documents specifically to his statement. From 1 January 2020, we would like this new obligation to submit a single document to large taxpayers, and then after 6 months, i.e. from 1 July 2020, to be extended to all other taxpayers, so that small, medium-sized and micro-enterprises have much more time to prepare for this new obligation. We assume that from 1 July 2020 it will not be possible to submit a VAT return in any other way than through this single file, through the format of a single control file. The information contained in the VAT return will be transferred to the Poltax Central System, i.e. this new format will make this data into the Poltax Central System and significantly improve the functioning of the system. The data already influences there now, while they will be a little better arranged. The project does not close quarterly accounts, they remain in force, but the quarterly clearing will have to submit VAT records for the first 2 months of each quarter. Unfortunately, it is necessary to maintain the consistency and tightness of the system. We will be able to use data from these new files to a slightly better extent in the Central Register of Taxation Data. We will impose fines for a misdemeanor of not submitting such data by electronic means or not in accordance with the model of the electronic document. We will also impose administrative sanctions for errors in files that prevent their analysis. We allow you to correct these errors: if you make a mistake, you will be notified and after notification you will be able to quickly correct and then everything will be okay, there will be no sanctions. We will reduce the excess in the context of the formalities introduced which are imposed on taxable persons as regards the need to provide customs authorities with documents confirming the payment of import taxes in the tax return. This change aims to eliminate the excessive burden on taxpayers. Because we already introduced it in 2017. The National Tax Administration, thanks to these reforms has become better, is more consolidated, there is a better flow of information. It's just one organism that functions like one organization, one fist that can do anything, has all the information in one place. As a result, the database of tax offices and customs offices has been merged and the information held by the services of the new National Tax Administration is much better. Thus, we can relieve taxpayers from passing on certain data, because we already have it, and we will not ask taxpayers to send these data to us, so we will free them from excessive responsibilities. Another change is to make available to the taxpayer an individual tax account by which payments of personal income tax, corporate tax, goods and services tax and non-tax duties constituting the revenue of the State budget will be made. We have also made some minor changes that are less important, but those that concern the regulation on the payment of tax liabilities whose payment deadline has expired. They shall be counted against the liability at the earliest payment date specified by the taxable person and, in the absence of such indication or absence of arrears in the specified tax, the arrears of the oldest payment date among all the taxpayer's arrears. We also intend to introduce a solution to support banks and cooperative savings and credit banks in the proper performance of their obligations under the Law of 1 March on Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing. We anticipate that the Act should enter into force on 1 January 2020. This law does not have a significant impact on the functioning of entrepreneurs. On the business side, we will actually make it easier, they will obviously have to adapt their financial and accounting systems to the proposed changes, but the expenditure related to the introduction of this solution, i.e. mainly the cost of adapting IT systems to new solutions, will depend on the size of the entrepreneur, the way in which the books are kept or whether the changes will require only the accounting system or the management system of the whole company. It can also be assumed that they will be 0 PLN for those entrepreneurs who wish to use the free tools prepared by the Ministry of Finance as solutions primarily for micro-entrepreneurs. The scope of the changes will require much less investment than the implementation of the previous JPK scheme, because in a large part they are the same data that are already being submitted at the moment. VAT returns are also made by electronic means at the moment. As regards the state budget, the costs associated with the modification of the current reporting system, VAT-7 and VAT-7K declarations and their submission and analysis in the Central Tax Data Repository will amount to around 12, almost 13 million - 12,822 thousand. zł. The expenditure on the application part of these costs will amount to 2822 000. zł. In addition to this amount, the cost of the infrastructure part, which is estimated at the moment is about PLN 10 million. In the following years 2020,2029, the maintenance of the system is expected to generate costs of around 300 000. PLN per year with a total cost of approx. 3 million PLN by 2029. Therefore, the total amount of expenditure related to the modification and maintenance of the scheme for 20192029 should be 15,822 000. zł. It is a certain cost, but we also know that it is a cost associated with really big simplifications for entrepreneurs. At the moment, it is difficult to determine to what extent the proposed solutions will reduce the fraud associated with the settlement of the tax on goods and services. As I said, in some ways the analysis of the data we receive will improve, but it will continue to be the same data that we already have. They are likely to reduce the scale of the so-called exposure. empty invoices and carousel fraud, unfortunately it is difficult to say to what extent. At the same time, a change in the obligation to make declarations by replacing this procedure with a single obligation to send declarations together with records will mainly reduce the burden on taxpayers and will not affect the revenue of the State budget. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the High House to support this project and to direct it to work in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u353	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that the discussion on this item would be held on behalf of clubs and circles for five minutes. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws, print No 3500. This project is in line with the strategic objective set out in the Responsible Development Strategy by 2020, with a view to 2030, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2017, in particular in the area of public finances. It is also one of the sets of laws announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in an exposé to simplify economic life in our country, fulfilling the establishment of a modern state, a digital service state. The project aims to simplify the billing of goods and services tax. The information sent in the same way as currently in the JPK_VAT file will replace the tax returns, in particular VAT-7 and VAT-7K declarations. Taxpayers will not have to submit two documents: the JPK_VAT file and the VAT return, as before, but only one document: JPK. In addition, no annexes will be required for the current declaration, i.e. VAT-ZZ, VAT-ZD, VAT-ZT as well as additional applications in standard declarations. Notwithstanding the foregoing in Article. 2 of the draft law introduced regulations on the individual tax account of the taxpayer and the payer. According to the draft article. 61b of the Act of 29 August 1997. The taxable person and the payer will be provided with the tax administration from 1 January 2020 and will be provided with an individual tax account by which they will make payments for personal income tax, corporate tax, VAT and non-tax duties constituting revenue of the State budget. Currently, each tax office has a separate bank account competent to collect the above. income. The creation of an obligation in PIT and CIT makes it obligatory to deposit into different bank accounts. The proposed solution will, first of all, lead to a change in the nuisance and, in fact, a reduction in the nuisance of the use of this instrument and will also increase the comfort of the taxpayer in the area of payment and save time, and minimise the risk of incorrect transfer of payments. The proposed solution aims at simplifying taxpayers' accounts also applied in other countries, e.g. Portugal. Portugal's single control file was considered to be a major success of information and modernisation of the tax administration. Ladies and gentlemen! The above draft law was intended for public consultation on 28 December 2018. He came back from a consult. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the draft law on print no. 3500. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u355	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u356	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have some comments on this bill. The main objective of the new regulation is to better analyse and check the regularity of VAT invoices issued by taxable persons and to eliminate fraud related to so-called issuing. empty invoices and carousel extortion. Such a specific objective in the Act is justified, but it is likely that specific solutions raise reservations. To a lesser extent than has been declared, in our view, changes seem to be indeed motivated by the desire to reduce obligations or burdens on taxpayers. The simplification of imports settled in the declaration, the replacement of applications and annexes attached to the declaration with the fields of selection in the new JPK_VAT file, the notice of correction made as part of the relief for bad debts or the waiver of summary information in the domestic market should certainly be welcomed. However, the amendment introduces for VAT taxable persons a further change in the information obligations due to the transfer to the Regulation of the scope of information that taxpayers will send within the extended JPK_VAT file linking data up to date sent in the JPK_VAT file with declarations and data necessary for analytical and control purposes. It is difficult to assess whether and how taxpayers' responsibilities will eventually increase. The change, after all, originally we talked about changing from the Central Register of Invoices to the Central Register of Taxation Data, seems to be very legitimate, because it is a complete departure from the original idea of the Central Register of Invoices. Not long ago, because in 2016, the representative of the new finance department, Minister Leszek Skiba, said: The plans presented by Minister Shamacha assume, firstly, the provision to the tax authorities of the appropriate IT tools that provide information on potential fraud in real time, here is really the project, the core of which is the Central Register of Invoices. So those invoices, which are later the basis for extortion, would be available in real time. We've gone far, far away from those original assumptions and your own declarations. In March 2016, Minister Skiba spoke in the Sejm about how this could have a positive impact on public finances in the future. He used various examples, different calculations. That's from 10 billion a year to 36 billion a year. Ladies and gentlemen! If we were to use the language that we used for us, for those eight years we ruled, he is using today, to put it simply, your propaganda, the so-called. Public television, we could say that omissions, delays in the introduction of the Central Register of Invoices in the original version, which was in line with the idea, led to the plundering in Poland of PLN 108 billion in the last 3 years. It would be if we used the same language. You're saying it was robbing 250 billion in eight years of the Civic Platform and PSL government. So here we have 108 billion looting in three years of PiS rule. Even a special purpose company was set up to carry out this task, the Critical Applications. Today we know that the share capital of this company has somehow decreased dramatically and, so far, this main objective has not been achieved. The first months of this year say that VAT revenues are lower than in the same period of the previous year and consumption is growing, GDP is growing. This is often referred to as an example from one year of our governments pointing to this rake of VAT. That's a classic example we have right now. GDP is growing, consumption is growing and VAT revenues are lower than in the same period of the previous year. So you can see that with this sealing, it's probably not only success, but at times we have quite a lot of propaganda, which you also do here for political use. This is the departure far from these original ideas, the original assumption of the Central Register of Invoices, which you also wanted to introduce. There were a number of statements by representatives of the finance department about how it is hard to seal the tax system in Poland, how much money can be obtained from those who are unfairly engaged in various activities. Nevertheless, this is a good direction, the bill is going in the right direction and the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition is in favour of further work on it in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u357	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to, I will stress this, the next draft law on amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws. I say another one, because just now, in the previous point, we also discussed the draft amendment of this particular law. Please do not take this as malice, and I will consistently point out that there are too many of these draft laws. This can be mapped out, especially since it's government projects. But to the point. Well, this project, I mean. The solution proposed in this project, I honestly must be assessed, at least at the initial stage, positively, because it is in fact aimed at reducing the burden on businesses, may not necessarily be tax burden, but the burden associated with all these so-called. responsibilities, formalities that entrepreneurs have to complete in order to be okay. The departure to paper VAT-7 or VAT-7K declarations should be assessed positively. Poland is becoming an increasingly modern country, with an increasingly higher level of introduced modern technologies, also in electronic communications, so if JPK has been introduced and this system works, then in such a situation it may actually be worth walking away slowly from this paper, also due to the issue of environmental protection, but above all to not force entrepreneurs to enter one and the same several times in subsequent declarations, to go to the tax office, to make these declarations, or by their accountants to do so. So in this respect, This is a good change and we will definitely vote for this change. As for the whole thing, it's complicated again. As far as the VAT Act is concerned, VAT itself is a complicated tax, so it is complicated matter, and the bill itself on several pages, is a justification, etc., etc. I think it will be a good place to work the Public Finance Commission, where we can lean on these solutions. However, I must say once again that I like them, and I think that many of the members of the Kukiz Club15 will like these solutions, which are actually designed to make life easier for entrepreneurs. And let's hope there are even more of these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u359	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u360	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will present my position on this government project with a title similar to that in the previous item: on the amendment of the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws, from print No 3500. In addition to the amendment to the Act on VAT on goods and services, the bill also introduces amendments to three other laws, namely to the Tax Order, to the Tax Penal Code, as well as to the Act on National Tax Administration. The project introduces a new VAT JPK file, replacing the existing VAT returns for VAT-7 and VAT-7K. The submission to the tax office of a declaration in the form of a new VAT JPK file will cover about 1800 thousand. taxpayers. The new file will enter into service from 1 January 2020 and will be used initially only by large companies. These include companies that employ more than 250 people and have a high turnover of more than 50 million euros. For the other taxpayers, however, this obligation will be created from 1 July 2020, but willing, those who would like to move on to this online settlement, determined, can apply this solution before, without being able to return to paper form. The new JPK_VAT file will be an electronic document covering the VAT declaration and records. It will also eliminate the submission of traditional settlements and additional applications in declarations. The proposed amendments will therefore reduce the information obligations for taxpayers. All taxpayers will submit a single document, within a monthly or quarterly period, respectively, without additional annexes, except that monthly records are kept. The expenditure necessary to be borne by businesses will, of course, mainly concern the adaptation of information systems to these new solutions. The Minister of Finance, as the Government states in the explanatory memorandum, will specify in the Regulation the details of the data to be included in the VAT records. It will also specify the model of the JPK_VAT electronic document, which will be placed on the ePUAP platform, which will allow it to be sent electronically to the tax office. In conclusion, like my predecessors, this is a good project, clearly limiting bureaucracy, using electronics. Here I would like to stress that the data processing centre in Radom has been being used, which has been waiting for 3 years to expand its offer, which is the centre that was created behind the previous government. In a word, the project deserves support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u361	Thank you, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Forgive the courage, in terms of the courage in conceptual thinking, but if we are to move away from paper in the direction of sending documents electronically, how do you view it - whether the Ministry is doing such work, or whether it is developing a concept - that tax collection should simply be carried out automatically? Since sales are made through fiscal cash registers, which are often connected to the Internet, since the whole is connected to one large IT system, we could go even further in this ease of life for entrepreneurs. E.g. when the trader sells the goods or services, it is automatically charged not only, but also the tax collected and at the end of the month, as in the case of PITs at the end of the year - there is an automatic system and citizens get already filled PIT [[♪ The bell ♪]] - in the case of VAT returns, the trader receives a prepared declaration and either accepts it or does not accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u363	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u364	Thank you very much. Minister! I would like to share the concerns that Mr Grabowski has spoken of here twice today, because indeed the changes, especially those concerning VAT, but not only, other taxes are too much, too often, are simply untenable for entrepreneurs. I know a case where the company wanted to do change training. IRS employees have been asked to present the law on the day-to-day basis. They said no - only three months earlier. Really, it's hard. I would also like to say that today, at the committee of inquiry's meeting as a witness, Maciej Berek, President of the Government's Legislation Centre in 2008 and spoke about the existing management, adopted for use, protecting entrepreneurs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] according to which tax law can only enter on two dates - Mr Grabowski also spoke about it - 1 January and 1 July. I want to ask what happened to the government of law and justice that it's gone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u365	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblekhta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We have discussed two draft laws on amending the VAT Act and there are two different opinions. Mr Paweł Grabowski accused the current government that these changes are being made too often, should be made, I do not know, once a year. On the other hand, Mr Konwiński says that these changes were delayed, that we had to react more quickly. And the thing that surprised me - and that's why I'm asking the Minister - was accused of looting 108 billion as a result of these delays. I'd just like to know a hypothesis like that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] how such amounts could be calculated with regard to those draft laws that emerged. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u367	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Filip Świtała to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the questions raised during today's Parliamentary debate. I also thank you for the support that you have almost unanimously expressed for further work on this project. To answer the questions, I will begin with the question asked by Mr Grabowski about the departure from the paper. We've already left the paper. In fact, there are no paper VAT returns anymore. At the moment, the VAT-owska declaration is only in electronic form. Consolidation of declarations, data transmitted in a specific file format will be easier, because this is already happening electronically. And, of course, you're right that if we think more far-reaching, we should strive to continue to automate this process. This is of the utmost value and we are also thinking of going in this direction. Automatic collection means less boring administrative duties. If someone wants to run a business, they don't want to do paperwork or make a declaration, they want to do their business. That's what turns him on. We see it, we understand it, and we want it to be. The next question was that the changes are beyond comprehension, that there are a lot of them. This was raised by Mrs Tokarska and other Members during today's debate. A little bit on the subject, really. I told you. It's not like every change is about every industry. The second point is that the changes we have made over recent years in governments have been urgent and necessary. I would like to remind you that when there was a change in the government in 2015, the value of the VAT gap was around 25.27%. so-called. the theoretical VAT obligation. I've explained that before, it's pretty easy to count. We look at the level of consumption, we divide it according to the silos for which specific VAT rates are applied, multiply, add, and come out as much as the VAT receipts we should get from consumption in our country. Once we subtract from this what we actually got, we have the value of the VAT gap. The value of this gap was just 25.27%. Now we're down to 12%. and even hears that maybe it's even less, because different estimates are used. There is a report prepared for the European Commission, a foundation is preparing it... I don't remember, I think... CASE. Excuse me, this is the CASE Foundation, which is preparing this for the European Commission. There are even such suggestions that this gap has been reduced even more and its value is even less, and it is much more than 12% . And it's not our respect, it's our calculation of independent experts. There's been a lot of changes. A significant part of these changes were changes which, however, concerned the background. It's about legal changes, but it's about information systems. Such a change was, for example, the STIR, which does not apply to honest entrepreneurs at all, and its application has been very positive. We feel it, we see hard data, money, which in much, much more amount influences the state budget. As to the question that the IRS refuses to provide training here, I would also like to say that it is also so that I understand that IRS should not generally be involved in training for entrepreneurs. The IRS has other tasks, and it should be separated. The question was that we should make changes twice a year, in accordance with the order that the President of the RCL, acting in office from 2008 to 2015, referred to him before the committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, it is as Mr Nobleman said, that, on the one hand, there is a need to make very important changes quickly in order to protect the state budget, and on the other hand, we also have an important value of legal certainty, respect for the entrepreneur's time to read the rules so that he can act. Let me put it this way: About 2010 to 2015, but also a few years earlier, unfortunately, the amount of VAT revenue was limited by a kind of glass ceiling. These revenues amounted to PLN 120.130 billion and somehow could not exceed this ceiling, even though GDP was growing, consumption was growing, i.e. the basic measure, which shows whether VAT revenues should grow or fall. In 2018 we reached almost PLN 175 billion in VAT revenue, i.e. by more than 30% more than in 2015, significantly more than the increase in consumption during this period would indicate. The scale of VAT revenues has caught up with the scale of the gap caused by these frauds which were naked and then were reduced or eliminated. Finally, Mr Andrzej Szlachta asked if these changes were too frequent or not too slow. Here the opposition says they're either too frequent or too slow. That's usually the way it is. If something is well done, they ask why it is only now, and if something is imposing some duties, they ask why so often. There was also a question concerning the plundering of 108 billion PLN. As I understand it, the Member who mentioned it here was theorizing. He didn't mean it. He said if he wanted to, right, theoretically, he might say so. I understand, however, that this is a kind of rhetorical figure, because I think everyone knows and everyone sees that the increase in VAT revenues is so dramatic that there is no question that there have been any delays on our side. Those teams I run work at a very high rate. The National Tax Administration is working at a very high rate. Nobody lets themselves be delayed here. So I quickly counted: this is 3 years, 108 billion, this would show that we should have about 30 billion more. If I add this to the VAT receipts for 2018, it turns out that we should have more than 200 billion of VAT. It's so... I will gladly accept, there is a place in the account, so of course we will accept, but it is a far-reaching theory, so to speak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u369	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the law on value added tax and certain other laws, contained in print No 3500, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws (print No 3495). I ask the Minister of Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u370	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I present a draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. The aim of this project is above all to reduce the unjustified increase in prices for the collection and management of municipal waste that we have seen in recent years. The Act also aims to provide incentives for residents to collect municipal waste separately and to further reduce irregularities in municipal waste management. I say: further reduction of irregularities, because in waste management laws adopted in July ub. These irregularities were largely excluded. What are our proposals and the most important solutions for amending this law? So, first of all, I think this is the most important change that can affect prices - the abolition of the obligation to transfer waste to installations within the region, i.e. the abolition of regionalisation. This will increase competitiveness and eliminate monopolistic practices, which unfortunately we can now see. Because how else to explain the increase in prices of municipal waste reception in RIPOKs from December 2017 to January 2019 sometimes by more than 100%. Of course, labour costs are rising, perhaps others, but they do not increase by more than 100% by any means. Another solution is to propose a reduction in the fees for waste management from the financial resources from the sale of secondary raw materials that have been selectively collected. Municipalities will be able to fund waste finance, but from revenues from the sale of secondary raw materials, not from their own budget. Although I admit, there were proposals from municipalities to do so directly from the municipality's budget, from their own income. This may be an incentive, on the one hand, for residents to collect separately, on the other hand, also an incentive for municipalities to organise selective collection efficiently, because the funds thus obtained can be used to reduce the charges for residents. Another proposal is the exemption from the part of municipal waste management fees of property owners who use biodegradable waste in home composters. So if someone doesn't give away biodegradable waste, they have their composter, they'll have a chance to lower the rate of the waste charge. We also propose a revision of the rules for setting the rate of charge for municipal waste management from the holiday house, the property occupied for recreational and leisure purposes. There have been conclusions that these charges have been abused and raised very strongly. Hence the proposal to limit them from the top. So no more than 10% for a holiday home. the average monthly income available per person, i.e. at the moment it is approx. 160 PLN. Such a limitation would also be in the case of municipal waste from uninhabited real estate as regards the value of containers. So the limit for a container of 1100 l is not more than 3% per month. monthly disposable income, i.e. approx. 51 zł, and for 120 l bag - per month the maximum rate is 1% , i.e. approx. 16 PLN. We also propose strengthening incentives for selective collection of waste, i.e. increasing the quality of secondary raw materials for recycling through proper selective collection of waste. The segregators will pay less. I mean, you could say that people who don't segregate waste will pay a double fee, a kind of punishment for not collecting the waste selectively. So far it has been any strategy of the municipality. Sometimes these differences were very symbolic. Another thing is to reduce market failures in municipal waste management. So this is about abolishing the possibility of flat-rate settlement of municipalities with entrepreneurs receiving municipal waste from residents and changing to quantitative settlement. This gives municipalities both the opportunity to control the waste stream and also encourages selective collection. The point is that these selectively collected waste should not be included in the mass of the general waste, of the residual waste, of the mixed waste. Another proposal is to change the method for calculating waste recycling levels by municipalities. To date, only fractions have been included in recycling: paper, metal, plastics and glass, while at the moment other fractions from which waste can be used as secondary raw materials will be possible. This new method will allow real calculation of the level of recycling achieved for all waste. This will also encourage you to increase the level of selective collection. If this more general method had already been applied at the moment, taking into account the data for 2017, Poland could boast about 40% of the level of selective collection - the level of preparation for re-use and recycling of municipal waste - in turn using this method, which distinguishes only four fractions, this level in 2017 indicated only 29%. Another proposal is to ban the incineration of mixed municipal waste collected in the municipality, which does not introduce uniform rules for selective collection of waste. We want to avoid such a situation that the municipality, not wanting to introduce a selective collection of waste at all, spends all municipal waste to burn. We recognise, in accordance with the Waste Directive, that incineration is the last resort for waste management. The first is the re-use of secondary raw materials, i.e. recycling. The second - burning, if you can't do anything about the waste. And the final step, the final step, is to dispose of the waste. In accordance with European Union requirements, we are expected to reach 65% in 2035. recycling against other waste, i.e. We're going to reach at least 65%. recycling and not more than 10% We can store the waste. Such solutions, such stimulations are necessary for introduction. The project also introduces some changes in waste management - not only concerning the Cleanliness and Order Act in municipalities - which result from observed phenomena. We want, among other things. improve the possibility for competent environmental authorities to dispose of waste without delay due to a risk to human life or health. Thus, without waiting for the call and the reaction of the owner of the waste, in the case of waste that threatens the health or life of the body, this replacement could be implemented immediately. Of course, the obligation to reimburse the costs of disposal of these waste by their owner, with the introduction of a new possibility to support local authorities from the funds of NFOŚ, is not so much a statutory provision as a technical solution and a technical offer addressed to local authorities to undertake such replacement operations by means of funding from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. I also think that it is very important, very important, to extend the responsibility of the hazardous waste manufacturer for the management of the waste until it is recovered or disposed of. It's not like if the manufacturer of hazardous waste hands them over to anyone, his responsibility disappears. Unfortunately, we have observed many times that hazardous waste is passed on to virtually non-existent companies, fictional companies. This waste is subsequently discarded and the producer of the waste is not responsible, but it is difficult to enforce the costs of the disposal of the waste from the company that stored and abandoned the waste. And one more solution, maybe not directly related to the Cleanliness and Order Act, but related to waste management. This is to include a recycling charge for plastic bags with a material thickness of more than 50 micrometers. This recycling charge on plastic bags for purchases was introduced, but for bags from 15-50 micrometers, which showed in practice, taking into account the data for last year, that it was actually a leaky solution due to the fact that the shopping networks, shops have switched to bags thicker than 50 micrometers without any charge. By introducing universal fees, we will avoid circumvention of the law and fleeing payment of the fee. But, of course, the main motive for introducing this fee is to encourage you to give up your bags. We encourage you to give up plastic bags for shopping as far as possible and use re-use bags. We have therefore also found that there is no effective supervision and control regarding these bags. Therefore, we want to introduce monthly toll collection, BDO reporting, so that this commitment, these recycling charges, are not determined only on the basis of a non-verifying declaration introducing foil bags to the market, so that this is strictly controlled. These are the main principles of this law. The bill has been discussed for a very long time. It was based on compromises between entrepreneurs, employers and local authorities responsible mainly for the waste collection system. Therefore, the records evolved in different places depending on the rations of particular stakeholders. I hope that this proposal is a suitable compromise between the expectations of local governments and entrepreneurs, it will lead to a better waste collection system - this is what local authorities are obliged to do - and over time it will also eliminate monopolistic practices and will lead to a real reduction in prices for residents or at least to a halt to their growth. I would like to point out that this really is another step in ordering waste management. Before us is the implementation of a full waste directive, which, including, I hope, adopted today during the vote on waste bases, the law will fully clean up waste management. The Directive, together with the regulations adopted last year, will create a system of comprehensive solutions and put waste management system in order. This relates primarily to environmental benefits, but not only. This will also bring financial benefits to residents, consumers supplying waste. Of course, we require them first of all to be involved in a fair and effective selective collection of these waste. That's the main purpose of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u371	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Kwitek, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u372	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws, print No 3495. The amendment introduces a number of changes which were proposed by local governments, residents and municipal entities and entrepreneurs. The aim of the proposed solutions is to seal the existing rules and improve the level of enforcement by authorities, which should have a positive impact on competitiveness and entrepreneurship in the waste management sector. In order to do this, it is necessary to strengthen the control of municipalities over municipal waste management systems and the supervision of waste collection companies. The new solution is that the municipalities will not be able to settle lump sum with garbage collection companies. This made it difficult for local governments to control the municipal waste stream and led to an increase in the costs of operating the system, among others. by overestimating the costs of receiving these waste. The amendment will allow local governments to account for garbage companies, e.g. on the basis of the weight of the waste which has been transferred for processing. Separation of calls for tenders for the collection and procurement of waste will also allow entrepreneurs who do not have a waste management infrastructure to participate in the tenders. This has so far been necessary and has reduced the competitiveness of the operators with the combined invitations to tender. The amendment also encourages selective collection of municipal waste - it introduces a rigid price difference for segregate and non-segregating waste. Those who don't segregate garbage will pay twice as much for them. Increasing the efficiency of selective collection of waste is a prerequisite for improving recycling rates both in terms of the quantity of sorted waste and in terms of the quality of segregation itself. The draft amendment introduces provisions aimed at reducing fees for owners of single-family homes who have composters in which some of the waste arising in the real estate will be processed - biowaste. Decisions on this issue will be taken by the municipalities by a resolution. The amendments also apply to the rules for setting an annual lump sum trash levy on holiday homes and properties used for recreational and leisure purposes. This will contribute to the reduction of the fee rate - it will not be higher than 10% the average monthly income available per person per year. In the case of family gardens, the rubbish levy is to be fixed in the same way as in the case of immovable property in which municipal waste is generated. The new regulations will allow, among others. for the immediate disposal of hazardous waste or human health by the competent environmental authorities at the expense of their owners. A very important change is the abolition of the obligation of regionalisation in terms of development, among others. Biowaste, mixed municipal waste or sorting residues. This will allow the transfer of waste to installations across the country. The co-ownership of waste generators and subsequent owners for the management of waste is also introduced. The amendment of the law tightens the penalties for the management of waste not in accordance with the rules. The project introduced the possibility for the municipality's board to adopt a resolution on own resources subsidies - obtained from the sale by the municipality of secondary raw materials - to the rates of charges for municipal waste management for owners of real estate in the household part, which may prevent increases in rates of charges for residents. The municipality will also be able to lay down additional conditions to facilitate the selective collection of waste by disabled persons, in particular visually impaired persons, which will have a positive impact on the situation of those persons. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The proposed amendment aims to simplify the functioning of the waste management system while reducing the burden on residents. It aims to achieve the objectives of EU legislation - to minimise waste generated and preserve as long as possible the value of products, materials and raw materials. The proposed changes will have a positive impact on the environment, health and human life and will contribute to reducing irregularities in waste management. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of further proceding this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u373	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u374	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition against the government bill amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in the municipalities. The project entered the Sejm on 6 June, so recently it has been consulted since the end of August 2018. A summary of the comments submitted covers as many as 298 parties, which demonstrates the absolute complexity of the issues and scale of interest in the project from numerous stakeholders, and in particular municipalities, for which maintaining cleanliness and order at landfills and disposing of municipal waste is their own task. Local government representation - e.g. The Rural Union of the Republic of Poland of 26 October Ub. On 9 January 2019 and 9 January 2019, the Polish City Association of 18 January 2019 raised a number of concerns about solutions to ensure the achievement of the main objectives of the revision: improving the municipal waste management system and increasing the scope of selective waste collection. These representations also raised the issue of tightening requirements and high financial sanctions for non-compliance with the rules. Local government representatives noted a number of positive changes in the project, interestingly, without retreating from the opinion on the complexity of the waste collection, storage and treatment system. They also raised the issue of the observed cost increase as a very negative factor in terms of change. According to local authorities, the implementation of the law will increase these costs in a jumping way. The diagnosis of the reasons for the increase in costs is definitely different from that presented by the Minister. Here, the increase in cost-forming elements goes hand in hand with only monopolistic elements. I think I'm going to raise that question as a question. The Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition welcomes a number of proposed solutions. The Minister was kind enough to discuss them, and I don't even have a chance to take them short. There are minor solutions, such as a bonus for having a composter. As the holder of the composter, I warmly thank and at the same time raise that. in a situation where municipal waste, as in my municipality, is exported once a month, Minister, one can imagine a health hazard caused by the improper use of the composter, e.g. in connection with the introduction of zoonoses as well. I pay attention to this problem because it is not trivial. I'm going back to the matter of the law. It is particularly important to strengthen the control of municipalities over waste generation which cannot fall out of the system without consequences, to leave, to log out or to companies receiving municipal waste by preventing a flat-rate settlement with these entities. The establishment of collection payments in relation to the weight of waste transferred to processing is a better option, which should actually reduce costs. Undoubtedly a very important solution, as well as expectation, is to deal with the issue of plastic bags. And here as a member of the Parliamentary Team - Break up with the plastic I welcome very well the introduction of a recycling fee and I think it needs to be highly assessed. On the other hand, the abolition of the need to transfer waste to installations within the region is a controversial solution that could threaten to transport waste from a given municipality across Poland. With regard to the creation of new RIPOKs, to which the municipalities are authorised, this is controversial. An important flaw in the bill is the lack of standards regarding what is selective waste and what is not. Perhaps there should be a legislative delegation here for the Minister to issue a regulation. Another important problem is the introduction of twice as much non-segregated waste charge. In view of the thinness of mechanisms other than financial mechanisms which encourage joint and several segregation of waste at source, cooperatives and housing communities inhabiting multi-family homes, this applies to 15% households, more than 5 million people, seem to have a very serious problem, which could result in conflicting communities with local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ten seconds, please. One last big thing. Taking all this into account, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, after sending the project to the committee, will submit a request for a public hearing, which seems necessary because the local authorities do not know this version of the project, as it was - after all, the Minister will admit - repeatedly amended. Self-governments will only learn this version of the project, so giving them the opportunity to comment on the final version, seems to be particularly important and necessary in the current situation. Given the way the project was created, it probably couldn't have been any different. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u375	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. In the beginning, I will say that the Kukiz Club will support further work on the project. We want to discuss this, Minister, because this is the 19th approach. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the 19th approach to an important problem and, as we can see, garbage is coming, not decreasing, and the problem is not decreasing, but growing. If we really want to talk on a circular economy, let's start with sources. If we don't want trash, Minister, let's not have plastics on the market that can't be recycled. First thing. If asbestos is unacceptable, it shall not be introduced. If we have plastic, paper that cannot be recycled, we introduce a ban on introduction for the manufacturer, or we charge it with high costs, so that it costs the person who gets dirty and not the consumer. Today, households will suffer the consequences. That's one thing. As a matter of fact, in the case of my household, I volunteered to undergo a sack experiment as a Member and head of the Sejm Council. From my practical experience today as the one with the bags, I know one thing: No. 1 these are plastic and packaging. We want to reduce the problem. Why aren't we taking a step towards the bail system in this project? An example of the whole Western world shows clearly that packaging, furs, pets, glass are money that consumers are very happy to refer to turning points in large-area shops. Moreover, large-scale networks around the world, even in Lithuania, which is our neighbour in the European Union, are 90% recovering this. Money goes back to consumers. If there was a problem for Lithuanians at first, today this point has become an added value when visiting these shops, because thanks to this, these coupons, 50 cents per package, return to the market. At the same time, there are no problems with packaging. Today, I assure you, this is the problem of every household - 50% packaging plus plastic and glass. Let's move on. Minister, the essence of the problem is the big plate, there are large-area buildings where we have families. There's no technical selection. Not family houses, not small farms, but blocks. At this point, unfortunately, we must transfer this selective system to the mini-PSZOK system and at the same time to the bail system. Without it, we just don't have a chance of reducing it. Another thing, we don't have a coherent, continuous system. For a very long time, we talked about dry, wet garbage, installations, costs. Today these installations are being repaid and we are talking about factions. The problem is that this lack of consequences in the operation of the Polish government has caused that many local governments have gone into this, when it comes to these strange systems, they have to pay them back, and today they have to create new systems. The secret, of course, is logistics. If we want to collect, we can't force the trash to stay with the locals for long. As long as they lie down, at these temperatures, these bags will be a problem squared. The stench will be everywhere, including in the streets. And we have Venice, a repeat in Poland, including Warsaw. So we are talking about many serious challenges. As a Kukiz,15, we really are in favour of solving this systemally, but let's go back to the beginning. Whoever's dirty pays. Those who introduce difficult packages pay. Whoever introduces things that are not recycled pays and bears the consequences. The bail system in the case of batteries showed that this is the direction. The same can be done with cars. The car recycling industry is very clear about this. Why not make a bail system? That's the direction. Let's go in a direction that shows that waste doesn't just stink that it's also money. The market is valued at about 8 billion, plus minus. It's big money, big business. Let's start treating trash not like a stinking problem, but like money, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You just have to be smart about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u377	Thank you. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u378	Minister! I promised I'd get back to the cost issue, and I guess I didn't have a bill. Namely, I want to draw attention to the termination of the Act on Electromobility. It says that from 1 January next year all companies that collect waste must have 10% electric rolling stock. Minister, imagine that now. Try to show us where the machines are so that we can meet this requirement. If a company has three cars, that's 10%. will mean 33% in her case That means at least one car. It can happen, and it raises local governments that from next year nobody will collect waste at all because of this strange, funny, oversized and overshooted solution. I'd ask you to think about it, because there's still time for adjustments. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u379	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u380	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Shortly, the definition of an accomplice. Minister, it may turn out that this is gonna screw up the accomplice system. We're talking about separating seeds from chaff, separating criminals from honest entrepreneurs. There is no doubt here that this must be done consistently, without allowing the child to be fired with a bath. By imposing an obligation, a legitimate obligation to make a statement by a partner, the legislator seeks to eliminate from the market waste those who participated or were able to participate in illegal, simply criminal activities. Such persons may not be a proxy, a member of the Management Board, a member of the Supervisory Board, an official. This intention was absolutely right with regard to individuals. A natural person commits sin and a natural person should suffer the consequences. Unfortunately, in the current project we are talking about a partner, which can cause that in the case of capital companies, where we have business and municipalities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For a daughter's sin, the entire capital group will suffer consequences and disappear from the market. This is a very important issue. Let's really make this partner more specific so that we don't hurt the industry and that it doesn't turn out that there's no one to pick up the trash. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u381	Thank you very much. I ask the Environment Minister Henryk Kowalczyk to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u382	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much for your questions, thank you for your discussion and your declarations on your willingness to continue working on this law. Of course, Mr Wilczyński, speaking on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, paid attention to the multiple versions of the project that went to local governments. That is correct, I was talking about the fact that this discussion lasted for a very long time, but I would like to assure you that the final version of the project was accepted by the joint government and local government committee. Of course, here is the question of plastic bags. It was already attached after this opinion, but this is not about self-government. The whole version of the Cleanliness and Order Act in the municipalities was accepted by the joint committee of the government and local government and this version of the local authorities know. [[What date was acceptance on?]] It was April, April 20th. I think so. We discussed very carefully with local governments. We discussed with various corporations, with the association of rural communities, with districts, including all local governments. Another thing is the diagnosis of the causes of price increases. Of course, monopolistic practices may have facilitated certain elements, but I am convinced that there may have been different factors when it comes to this increase in prices. The creation of new RIPOKs, the possibility of creating new RIPOKs is supported by a practice that has occurred in many voivodships, where very well prepared installations, most often self-government, fell out of the voivodship waste management plan. They stand, with devices, ready to use. Self-governments have been deprived of this ability. Therefore, if we give the possibility to reactivate these installations, it will certainly benefit local governments and residents. So this possibility of creating new RIPOKs is mainly about this, and this is what local governments demanded in a very important way. I will answer this question immediately about electromobility, because it can indeed be a reason for increasing prices with such a statutory record. I am not the host of the Act on Electromobility, it is the Minister of Energy, but it is worth considering this before it comes into force. As far as Mr Andrzej Maciejewski is concerned, I fully agree. We are really trying to make it a bail system, so that he can finance himself, so that the waste put on the market pays for it. This system should finance collection, selective collection, management, recycling of waste. Besides, we are required by the Waste Directive. We're working on this system. This is one of the steps. The work on this system is so difficult that we do not have a waste management base, so we are talking a little bit about theoretical things without knowing the quantitative approach. Since work on the waste management base is on completion and it will start working in a test manner, I hope from August, September, and in a mandatory way from 1 January, it will also serve as a tool for the implementation of an effective bail system. Such a bail system is another step in terms of our intentions, because what is really not yet a complete solution to the problem. In fact, if we introduce bail fees, recycling fees, whatever we call it, for packaging - maybe smaller for uniform packaging, easily recycled, and larger for multi-material packaging, difficult to recycle - it would even be an incentive not to use packaging that is difficult to recycle. This system is definitely ahead of us, and we're going to do that. We have already begun to work on this system. As far as the last question is concerned, regarding the wolf ticket for the partner, it is necessary to treat natural persons, legal persons in the same way, so there would be no escape from this system. This, of course, is still a point to be considered in the course of the work, and I would not want the system to be leaky and that legal persons are sometimes left out in this system. That, of course, is to be considered. This provision, which has been proposed, seems to be a sealed provision, but I do not definitively prejudice the form of this security. Thank you very much for the declarations on the work on this law at the next stages of parliamentary work, i.e. in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u383	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws, contained in print No 3495, to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 20. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 34 hrs. 20 min 07]] I'm reopening the session. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that following the expiry of the mandate of Mrs Elżbieta Raven pursuant to Article. I have decided to replace Mr Adam Krzysztof Kałaski with the electoral code. I ask the Member to approach the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. I'll read the vows now. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mr Adam Kałaska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u384	I promise. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u385	Thank you very much. I state that Mr Adam Kałaska has taken a vow of marriage. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union, print No 3536. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau submitted proposals: - on changes in the personal compositions of the Parliamentary Committees, print No 3535, - on changes in the composition of the Secretaries of the Sejm, print No 3530. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Penal Code Act and certain other laws, - amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Law on the Departments of Government Administration, - amending the National Property Resources Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in No 3504, 3505 and 3492 respectively. Therefore, I have decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology, print No 3493. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5a Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Please be informed that the planned item 40. of the agenda, i.e. the appointment of a member of the committee on the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 42 of the agenda: the draft resolution on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union presented by the Sejm Bureau (print No 3536). High Seym! I am now proposing that we listen to the speech of the President of Lithuania, Mr Viktor Pranceckitis. [[Applause]] [[The appearance is displayed on the arrays]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u386	Ladies and gentlemen! An act of the Lublin Union is a testimony to an exceptional political agreement between two states, achieved through negotiations, arguments and democracy. This agreement was joined by the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, a society based on security and democracy. The solutions contained in the Lublin Union, based on the multicultural and multi-national tradition of the Jagiellonian monarchy, were innovative and built one of the most powerful countries on the continent. The Lublin Union gave Europe the first constitutions written, a Constitution on 3 May, so the 450th anniversary of the Lublin Union as a precursor to the Treaties of the European Union is an excellent testimony to the unity that unites us in a common country and ensures prosperity and prosperity for many generations. I greet you for this holiday of our history and our citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u387	High Izbo! I will now read the text of the draft resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Parliament on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, stating that 450 years ago an act of union of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Kingdom of Poland was signed at the General Seym in Lublin. The Union was adopted on 28 June and signed on 1 July 1569, finally ratified by King Sigmund August 4 July 1569; stressing that the Polish-Lithuanian Union was one of the most important events of the century throughout Europe. The Act established a link between the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, thus enabling the birth of a unique system of statehood in Europe; Recognizing that the Lublin Union has survived for more than 200 years, it has only been destroyed by the combined forces of three invaders. The act of the Union was evidence not only of the practical implementation of the Renaissance era, but also of innovative legal thought and of the political maturity of the political elites of both countries. A multi-national and multi-religious community, built on republican values, the idea of tolerance, political negotiations and mutual respect, was established at the Lublin Seym. The Republic of both Nations has become a bridge between the East and the West, a stronghold of democracy and the true Antemurale Christianitatis; hopes that the traditions of shaping the political identity and parliamentary culture of the citizens of the former Republic of Poland of both Nations will take their place in the history of parliamentarians of Lithuania and Poland. I ask the High House to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union. I would like to remind you that the Modern Posel Club has submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the law on national and ethnic minorities and on regional language, and some other laws. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of But there are formal conclusions. There are two formal proposals. Mrs Monica Rosa, Member of the Commission. Time - 1 minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 I submit a formal request for a short break so that you can reflect on the fact that more than half a million citizens have declared that they speak Silesian. This half-million asks you to recognize the Silesian language, our Silesian emblem as a regional language. So much could have happened during the year when the bill was submitted, could have been taught in this language, teachers could have been trained. Silesians could finally feel that the language they care about, which they are developing through the activities of NGOs, social leaders, leaders, is important to you that you appreciate this diversity and this identity. Half a million Silesians and Silesians speak this language and ask you to recognize it, their identity, their culture. Remember, please, during the vote that without your support, this language will die out and there will be no enrichment of Silesian culture, but also Polish culture. That's the case. Not only Silesia, this is a nationwide matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u389	Thank you, Member. Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 22 May 1919 the siege of Lviv ended. Haller's army finally rejected, crowned the six-month labors of the lions, the lion's eagles, all those who defended the Polishness of the city. The round anniversary that has passed without a meeting of the Sejm in the last month demands a celebration. The city of Lviv was awarded the title and Order of Virtuti Militari. The city of Lviv, as French Marshal Ferdinand Foch said, confirmed that Poland was here in 1918, 1919. I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the House to rise and celebrate the silence of Lviv's defenders in 1919. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u391	But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have therefore violated the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, because this is neither a formal proposal nor an agenda. A request for a break has been filed. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 152, against - 256, with a hold of 8. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the request to supplement the agenda with a point including the first reading of the parliamentary draft law, which I presented earlier, on national minorities. Who among you is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 172 voted against - 245, with 10 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3423-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report from the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. The Extraordinary Commission on the revision of the codifications after considering these amendments at its meeting on 12 June gave a positive opinion on the amendments in Article. 300 and Article 300 911. The Commission welcomes them and asks for them to be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u393	Thank you, sir. I remind you, it's a 3423 print. The amendments tabled by the committee will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. 300 Commercial Companies Code Act applicants propose new wording § 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 289, against - 140, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 911 Act Code of Civil Procedure applicants propose new wording § 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 275, against - 150, holding down 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3423, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 251, against - 162, 15 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3457-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report on the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws, print no. 3137. At its 82nd meeting on 12 June 2019, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3457 to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications after its examination at its meeting of 12 June 2019 requests the High Sejm to accept Amendment 4 and Amendments 8 to 14 and to reject the other amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u395	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's a print number 3457. The Commission is presenting amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 10 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Civil Procedure Code Act. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 53. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 164, against - 259, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 203. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 163, against - 235, 23 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete point (a). b in the following Article. 226 § Point 2 (3). The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Sixty-sixty-six, against 239, holding off on 25. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 288. Amendments 12 and 13 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 4, 12 and 13, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 253, against - 139, the 37. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 326 applicants propose to delete § 1 and do not add § 4. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 162, against - 241, halted 26. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 329 applicants propose a new wording § 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. Za - 166, against - 251, abstained 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete § 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Barbara Dolniak, a non-member Member. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What do you mean, "non-union"?]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Welcome to our house.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this provision, you propose the situation... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, can you please ask the MPs...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u397	Your attention, please listen to the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u398	In this provision, you are proposing a situation in which, after the judgment has been annulled, the case will be referred to the same judge for review. We have already talked about the fact that different laws violate judicial independence, but this also violates directly because it deprives the court of discretion to assess the situation. You explain to me that the judge will have a kind of punishment to learn how to settle this. However, the transfer of a case to be rediscovered is not to be a punishment, but to allow for a new view of its resolution. This amendment therefore restores the situation in which this is a new formation. How would you feel if you entered the courtroom after the ruling was revoked, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What if there was the same courtroom out there? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u399	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Justice Łukasz Piebiak asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer this question, I must say that this is a completely thought-out arrangement. It is not that errors which the court of first instance makes, fundamental errors, errors which according to the current wording of the article. 386 § 5 renders it necessary to repeat the procedure in its entirety or to annul the procedure, it should be corrected by someone else. They should be corrected by the same judge who made those mistakes. It is a system known in the west of Europe, it is a system known in Austria, it is a system that defends itself and which works perfectly there. [[Voice from the room: It works, yes.]] When the judge returns the case to rediscover it, he not only learns, but also knows the case very well. The instructions of the Board of Appeal are binding. It is not important to whom they are addressed, they are addressed to the court of first instance. There is another phenomenon the High House should know about. There are judges who, fearing the settlement of controversial matters, maybe unable or unwilling to judge in complex cases, requiring a lot of effort and decision-making sometimes with a high social impact, are ruling - I have to say this, although I am coming from the state of the judge - only in such a way as to get rid of the matter so that someone else can take responsibility for the decision, maybe the court of second instance in appeal, or maybe a colleague who will have bad luck and so badly done will have to decide again after retrial. Therefore, it is advisable that the case should return to the same judge, because only such a provision makes the temptation to avoid the outcome of the case not work. Unfortunately, we have statistics and they show that this phenomenon actually works. We must fight this, and if there are judges who are unable to cope with pressure or are unable to deal with difficult matters, they should consider their usefulness in this profession. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u401	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 173, against - 250, stopped 5. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 485 applicants propose not to change the designation § 2a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 252, against - 151, 24 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 499 applicants propose a new amendment to § 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 254, against - 131, the 39. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose to add a third sentence in § 1 in Article. 770. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For -278, against -135, holding 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 19 The law on judicial costs in civil matters shall propose amendments only in paragraph 1. Two and three. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 275, against - 139, with 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 3b of the law on court bailiffs, applicants propose to amend their references. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -277, against -137, the 13. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before the vote on the whole - questions. Mr Barbara Dolniak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to reform the work of courts, you need systemic changes, system solutions, not to say revolutionary. And this project is a casuistic project that does not introduce any systemic solutions, because technical changes in the recipe or minor changes will not change the current state of justice. We need solutions that will be systemic, revolutionary solutions. This project contains solutions that restrict the freedom to judge are strictly casuistic. Not much, there are solutions that increase the cost of the process. We already have some of the highest costs of the process in the European Union, and in this project there are provisions that increase these costs. That, Minister, there will be a judge who, as you say, doesn't know what judgment he's going to give, and he's going to give, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As you have said, as you see fit, it does not mean that a party can be deprived of a party to an independent court that will re-evaluate the case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u403	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will admit that we were hoping that, at the end of the term of office, we could present a project that would actually improve the efficiency of common court proceedings. Even the announcements relating to this project aroused a lot of hope, but unfortunately the worst has happened. As we all know, Deputy Minister Piebiak is a long-standing judge, and this regulation is coming out. In fact, only against the expectations of the judge's environment, the point is to make it as easy as possible for the judges to rule on matters. One forgets that there are other parties in the courtroom, there are plenipotentiaries, there are plaintiffs, they are being sued. Using this project, they wanted to solve some of today's problems, and in fact the baby was fired with a bath. Some things were wanted to be limited, such as filing a charge of set-off in a trial, and this would result in more cases in courts, not less. To fight, for example. With prolonged cases, unjustified appeals, it is possible to unnecessarily expose innocent people to horrendous charges. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform - Coalition Club cannot support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u405	Thank you, sir. Mr. Minister, do you want to refer? Deputy Minister of Justice Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will speak briefly because it is late and much more work before the High House, but it is difficult not to respond to what has been said. It's looking for a hole in the whole thing. This is the greatest amendment the Code of Civil Procedure will have in history if the High House accepts this amendment. [[Voice from the courtroom: Just like the Penal Code.]] This is a fundamental amendment, this is an amendment that faces the problems that the opposition state has never wanted to face. He's dealing with the problem of obstruction, he's dealing with the fact that there are people who want the process not to go smoothly. A number of instruments that are designed to enable the process to run smoothly. Who's he supposed to be short for? Who's he supposed to be fit for? For the judges? The judges get their salary regardless of whether they are able to determine whether they are very long-term and nothing comes out of it. This is a pro-Citizen project. This is a project that gives tools to judges to be able to judge. Did you offer anything like this when you were eight years in charge? No. You proposed amendments that disorganized the civil process. [[But you're lying.]] Did you offer anything during almost four years of our term of office? You didn't offer either. You complain, you complain, there's nothing coming out of it. [[Slower, slower.]] [[Are you the judge?]] Everything that comes from this government is wrong regardless of what reality is. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! If you want a process of smooth, honest, civil, please and I appeal, support this project, because this is a project that is an opportunity for faster courts, and I don't think this is a political issue. Faster courts are something that should connect everyone in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u407	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3457, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 253, against - 172, abstained - 6. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws. We return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the government draft law amending the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3445-A. Third reading. I would like to ask Robert Warwas to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the government draft law amending the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes, print No 3413. At its meeting on 12 June 2019, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 3445 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs to examine 55 amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission, after considering the amendments on 12 June, recommends that the High House adopt all the proposed amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u409	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's print number 3445. We will vote on the amendments first. Amendments 1 to 38 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds. Amendments 39 to 51 were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Occupational Pensions Programmes. In the 1st amendment to the inserted article. Article 42a (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 applicants propose that this provision should apply to persons and organisational units. Amendments 2 to 5, 9 to 37 and 40 to 51. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission, I remind you, is asking for their adoption. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of this. Fixes, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 416, against - 4 stopped - 3. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the inserted article. 42a applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 11. Amendments 7 and 8 align with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th to 8th amendments, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -422, against -2, abstained - 3. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 38th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the following Article. 207c. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 38th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -424, 1 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 39th amendment to Article. 2 (2) 1 applicants propose a new wording of point 26. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 39th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 426, against - no one, stopped 4. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 52nd amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 3 draft amending act. Amendments 53 to 55 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments from 52nd to 55th, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 427, no one's against, has stopped 4. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Before voting on the whole of the bill, there is a question. Mr Joann Frydrych, Civic Platform Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u410	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill under investigation is another legal piece of work carried out by the PiS government. That's the minimum we can expect. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] You missed the deadline for the implementation of EU legislation, which expired on 13 January this year. The bill contains six articles. The Sejm's staff have tabled 55 legislative amendments. Aren't you ashamed? However, following the sense of responsibility for the implementation of EU legislation, we will support this law. We do not want Poles working in the countries of the European Union to pay for your lack of competence. We will improve this bill in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u411	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No 3445, together with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. In - 428, against - 4, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3464-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the government draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws, 20 amendments were tabled. The Commission has examined these amendments today. Amendments 1, 3, 5, 7 and 8 to be voted on together contain provisions that allow the e-mail address to be given. They must be voted on together. The Commission suggests that they be adopted. Amendments 2, 4 and 19 concern municipal points of selective collection of municipal waste. They are intended to enable them to log into the waste database, which will enable electronic recording and reporting from 1 January next year. Amendments 10, 12, 14 and 16, which should also be voted on together, are reduced to removing the requirement to submit an electronic signature to applications for entry in the waste database or registration and reporting documents, as identification is carried out by the national electronic identification node. Amendments 17 and 18. - they must also be voted on together - they concern the issuing of certificates. Amendments 6 and 11 concern typographical errors - they straighten them out. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry recommends that the High House adopt all amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u413	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's a 3464 print. The amendments set out in the additional report of the Sejm will be voted first. Amendments 1 to 14 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Waste Act. In the first amendment to Article. Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 applicants propose to add point 5. Amendments 3, 5, 7 and 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. I remind you, the committee is requesting their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1, 3, 5, 7 and 8, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 427, against - 1 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Amendments 4 and 19 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2, 4 and 19 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 426, against - 1 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 425, against - no one, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 56 applicants propose to amend paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 423 against - no one, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 65 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. Five. Amendments 12, 14 and 16 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 10, 12, 14 and 16, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 426, against - 1 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 75 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose to amend point 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 425, against - 3, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 79 applicants propose to add paragraph. 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 417, against - no one, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 2 the draft amending act of the applicant proposes to delete point 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 15, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 416, against - no one, 11 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose to amend Article. 16 draft amending act. Amendment 18 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 17 and 18, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 421, against - 1 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 20th amendment to the article. 21 of the draft amending act propose amendments to points 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Between 2016 and 2017, you granted permission to import waste to Poland. Does the High House know what the total number of permits is to bring waste from rich European Union countries into Poland? 1435,000. waste. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Applause]] High Izbo! In recent weeks, in recent months we have been dealing with a plague of landfill fires. Is it burning, Minister - this is a question to the Minister of the Environment - waste brought to Poland, for which you issued permissions? Do these burning landfills also contain illegally imported waste from Germany? Even though there are high penalties in this regard. When are you gonna take care of this big problem? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u415	Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u416	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Although the question has nothing to do with the proposed amendment, as the statements have been made here, to be precise, I would like to explain that waste imported from abroad, but in the form of secondary raw materials, 434 thousand were imported in 2018. t, which compared to twice the number of municipal waste brought in for your government, is indeed a very delicate matter. I would also like to point out that when it comes to landfill fires, it was thanks to the introduced solutions in July 2018 that the number of fires fell more than twice. But, of course, the problems are because there are over 3.5 million tons of waste left behind - so we have inventoried - accumulated in recent years, among others. during your reign, when it was a leaky system when it was allowed to import municipal waste. We have banned the introduction of municipal waste, we are enforcing this ban, and an example is the recent transport back to the UK of more than 4 000. t municipal waste. In your day, not a single ton of waste has returned abroad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u417	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 20th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 418, against - 1 4 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Member Paweł Suski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u418	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, what you're telling me is a lie. Sealing the system is fiction. [[Applause]] This law is a tool to build a database about products and packaging and about waste companies. Four years, Mr. Members, gentlemen of the PiS, you've had almost four years to build a BDO, a database. [[And you're eight years old.]] We have prepared a tender that you have cancelled. You canceled the bid to build this system. [[And eight years to bid.]] He was there to take over the gray trash zone. That's what he was after. The system is needed and BDO is needed. The product and packaging database is needed to fight the grey zone. You didn't create it, although you want to create it now based on the Institute of Environmental Protection without a tender. [[You haven't created by eight, and we will create by one.]] Don't tell me you're not building. You're a storm party, not a building party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u419	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to congratulate you on this wonderful, perfect mood, but I don't think the people living next to the burning dumps that are generating the stench that you can't live next to are as well as the Minister. And if you want to find out, I'd like to invite you, for example. to the town of Pyszyca in the municipality of Śrem or on the street. Marantovska in Konin. The truth is, these dumps aren't just full of stinking garbage, they're not just burning, they're generating environmental degradation in the place where they've been stored. For example, in the village of Pyszyca, the Environmental Inspector in Poznań found a 250,000 deterioration of groundwater and surface water. percent. Were you there? Did he see it? The owner of the dump is a pole and the local government can't do anything about it. Are you gonna be interested in that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u421	Another question is asked by Robert Majka, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Environment. Did you report the case to the Homeland Security Agency about the burning landfills? Please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u423	One question, but I don't know if it concerns this bill. The Minister of Environment wants to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, every burning landfill is reported to the relevant services and proceedings are underway. As far as the question is concerned, of course, this matter, which you are talking about, was unfortunately possible until the law was changed in July 2018. ♪ We're gonna ♪ We have done, but, as I mentioned, waste from previous years is still behind, in fact, not evaporated miraculously, and we will have to deal with it. I would like to reply very precisely to Mr Suski. It is about the chronology of events, about building a waste management base that is needed, and everyone confirms it. So let me remind you: in 2012, your government passed the Waste Base Act, planning to introduce this base. You've made a bid. Of course, it didn't work out. It's been a few years. What did you do? You did nothing, so in 2015, you decided to postpone the construction of the waste base for 2018. Since then, what have you done? You didn't do anything either. [[Voice from the hall: You were in charge.]] I understand, maybe the tenders were difficult to carry out, but we decided to order this unit of our own. This is a scientific unit, the Institute of Environmental Protection. The base will certainly be set up this year, and it will be operational from 1 January 2020. This has been done more effectively, cheaperly, and above all done, and this is what we've done in the last year, and what you haven't been able to do over the years 8, by reschedule only the deadline from the bill. Accusing us of not doing anything, given the facts... [[Voice from the room: 4 years.]] ...is an absolute lie. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u425	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, the Minister said we didn't do anything. I'd like a corrigendum, please.]] [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] [[Second corrigendum.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Voice from the room: Please correct...]] Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3644, together with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -422, against -5, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Traffic Law and the Road Transport Act. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3509. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 3509, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For -421, against -1, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Road Traffic Law and the Road Transport Act. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms. Third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3446-A. I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft legislation on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms. Two amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering them today, calls for their rejection and recommends a joint vote on them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u427	Please. Let me remind you, print number 3446. We vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. 8 applicants propose that the monitoring of compliance with the law should also be carried out by the certification bodies referred to in the Environmental Farming Act. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments: 1st and 2nd, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 163, against - 234, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The vote on the entire bill... There's a question. Member of Artur Dunin, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I regret very much that we did not accept this amendment, which was very valuable to consumers in fact. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is needed for all of us, because we are all consumers. The Platform Club despite as many as 33 comments to this bill, because this law is not good, will vote for consumers to have a choice, to choose GMO-free products, but I promise from this place that we will improve this bill as soon as we win and we will win in October. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u429	Thank you, sir. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 3446, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -421, against -3 stopped 3. The Sejm has passed a law on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from those organisms. We are returning to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3508. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 3508, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 424, against - 1 3 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. We would like to refer to item 10 on the agenda: Report from the European Union's Committee on European Affairs on the Government draft law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3470. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3470, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm has passed a law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of an agreement. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, the Energy Efficiency Act and the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3502. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u430	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister, but he's not here, so I'm going to ask two prime ministers: do you guys realize that you are using false, false? Why is that? If you're having second thoughts, when you get home, check the energy bills. [[Applause]] See how much you paid in June. and what are the accounts of this year. Is this an accidental action? [[The voice from the hall: I haven't changed.]] Proof of this is provided in the explanatory memorandum of the Act. The justification is that small, medium, large, everyone is at risk of being exposed to a sharp rise in prices. This is the effect of 3.5 years of this government's work... [[Voice from the room: Quoted by Mrs. Kopacz.]] ...based on lies and lies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u431	Thank you. In fact, there was no question. [[Voice from the hall: But let the minister explain himself.]] [[How much are you paying?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 159, against - 243, 24 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the whole question, Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club, asks again. [[Ask yourself why it is so, why you lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u432	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A further part of the question to the prime ministers. Do you realize what this bill leads to? [[We're not gonna pay any more for electricity.]] Ladies and gentlemen, many of you know a little bit about economics. Is this a normal situation for companies to be ordered to sell energy at a price lower than the costs incurred? This bill is talking about it. What does the Prime Minister say? What does the Minister say? That it has nothing to do with the fact that you're lying to people. You want to save your face with this bill. It is about the transfer of PLN 8 billion through customers' pockets to energy companies as compensation for pumping... [[For what Prime Minister Kopacz signed.]] ...in various non-professional tasks taken from the recipients of money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this a normal situation? Will it not end Polish energy from next year? [[Applause]] [[Do you understand that, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u433	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Mr. Marshal will pay more.]] This bill resembles card tricks - you are trying to hide the fact that energy prices have gone up. On the one hand, the Act contains a number of provisions that will cause chaos in the energy market and on the other hand it also contains a provision to extend the validity of white certificates. I have the impression that this bill needs to be thoroughly improved. Minister, the Senate will probably be working on this, and I have a question for you. [[The Minister doesn't listen.]] Will the bill enter into force quickly enough to extend the validity of white certificates? We know that due to government negligence, 30 June will end the validity of these certificates. Housing cooperatives and all those who have invested in improving energy efficiency count on the fact that [[♪ The bell ♪]] they will receive funds. This applies to several hundred million funds. Aren't these entities going to be, in short, with paper that isn't worth anything? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u435	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Member of the non-member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Deceive from the very beginning, claiming that you care about the ordinary citizen and do not raise energy prices. If you think that raising energy prices for companies will not affect the level of prices for citizens, on the wallet of each of them, then you simply do not know economics at all. Citizens need to be made clear: energy prices go up despite government assurances that this is not going to happen. You're all gonna pay for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u437	Mr Sitarski has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question here, listening to the discussion: First of all, who led to the sale of the energy industry and why, and how much was the cost of restoring electricity producers under Polish management? Second point: Who has led to too submissive attitude towards the provisions of the climate package, which directly beats the energy sovereignty of Poland and in the specificity of the Polish energy market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u439	Mr Rosa has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u440	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Then I have a question for the Minister: What will happen in 2020, which is very soon when the bill will cease to apply? I also have a question: How much more have local governments paid for the increase in energy prices? Please note in percentage what amounts are, and thus how much more we all, residents of a given municipality, voivodship have paid more. Minister, what happens to renewable energy sources, energy efficiency? Will Poland succeed in fulfilling the commitment 15% the share of RES in the energy mix over the next 2 years? And if not, who will pay the penalty for not fulfilling that guarantee? You are selling CO2 emission rights and this money should be invested in civic energy, in RES, in efficiency, not even more CO2 emissions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u441	Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska has the floor. [[Voice from the O.R.: Unassociated?]] [[Voice from the hall: Give back the debts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Let's go back to 28 December when you brought 460 Members here to the Sejm and were supposed to solve the electricity problem for all citizens this year. It's been six months since then, and practically nothing's changed. Poles are still threatened with electricity costs and strategically you have not implemented any solutions. [[Voice from the hall: Give back the debts.]] As I said at the time, 28 December, not only is it not a system solution, it will still be blocked as aid, illegal public aid by the European Commission. Would you dare now come out and apologize to us and Poles for unnecessary spending money and proposing in legislation the adoption of complete legal books that do not bring anything, but we are losing the money of citizens? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: in a dream, I think.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u443	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski wants to speak? Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski will speak at the moment. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But you are the Minister then...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! To begin with, it should be recalled that in 2014 Prime Minister Donald Tusk received a proposal from the Sejm and Senate Environment Committee that he would not agree to tighten up the climate package, which is causing such situations as to raise electricity prices. [[Voice from the room: 4 years.]] Nevertheless, this package was signed. [[Voice from the room: 4 years.]] What are we doing now? Yeah, ladies and gentlemen, we're doing this right now so that the Poles don't have any energy. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And you're asking questions like this when you're walking down the road like this, what do you want? You want to take 8 billion zlotys away from Poles. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We're working hard, it's not easy for us, and it's not easy for us to do it in committee, etc. We try to ensure that Poles, Polish companies and Poles do not spend 8 billion PLN. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Bravo, Christopher!]] And you hard: Judice, show, complain, let the Poles spend, rip out the money for them. No, we don't agree to take that money away from them. [[Voice from the room: Where did you get 8 billion?]] We are trying to find money, to ensure that Poles do not pay 8 billion PLN. [[You have no shame. You have no shame. You tricked the Poles.]] Poles, I declare to you all: this year you will still not have energy. [[Applause]] At least the opposition doesn't know how she screamed. The energy won't cost! And today's bill guarantees it. [[A stir in the room, a turbulent applause]] [[The voice from the room: Bravo, Christopher! Bravo!]] [[Voice from the gym: He's going to the premiere.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u445	Thank you, Minister. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 3502, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 259, against - 145, holding 22. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, the Energy Efficiency Act and the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3523-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and some other laws. Six amendments were tabled at second reading. The joint committees have examined them today and are asking for their rejection. They also recommend voting on amendments 1 and 2 together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u447	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's 3523. We are voting first on the amendments tabled in the additional report. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Teacher Card Act. In the first amendment to Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 2. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who stopped it? 421 Members voted. For - 185, against - 228, with a hold of 8. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 53b. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 173, against - 230, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 14 of the draft amending act propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 5. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 178, against - 234, the 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 14 of the draft amending act propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 165, against - 240, stopped 24. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 14 of the draft law amending the applicant propose to delete paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 168, against - 240, with 19. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole of the bill, there are questions. Mr Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The teacher's salary just belonged to him. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We know.]] It is a pity that you have granted them in such a low dimension. [[How much did you pay?]] We proposed an amendment that would make teachers receive 30% of the allowance. [[How much did you pay for eight years?]] [[Voice from the room: Nothing.]] You rejected that amendment. You're giving me the so-called. the start-up allowance. You've taken all the extras from the teachers, you've given away a few, and it's in a significantly reduced dimension. Why is that, ladies and gentlemen? Because the state heroically solves the problems you've created before. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: On what grounds?]] A similar situation concerns the records related to the evaluation of the teacher's work. The state first introduced records with which teachers disagreed, so that they could change them now. But the most important problem is funding. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have not provided the sources of funding for these changes. You want to charge them with Polish local governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u449	Thank you, Member. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u450	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is undeniable that the teacher's increases are due, and that is why we will support this bill. But we demand, Minister, that you come out here and tell us where the raise money will be generated from. Isn't it the case that the government will accept the project and then the execution and finding of funds will cede to local governments? Please answer me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u451	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad that Minister Piontkowski is already prepared to answer, because he will indeed have a problem with how to flex and answer these questions. I know that you will simply accept this bill, and even get support from POs and PSLs, also responsible for the low salaries of teachers. But this bill is manipulation, it's fraud. That's cheating because you're saying it's going to be 10%. But you don't tell me how much it's actually worth. It's gonna be okay. 200 PLN net - this is the first case. Second thing. You're supposed to give an allowance for parenting, except that this supplement will pay local governments and not all teachers, for example. You took this supplement away from the kindergarten teachers. Another case, ladies and gentlemen. First you picked up $4,000. zł to the teachers of trainees who start their internship as a contract teacher, and now you kindly give them 1 000. zł., [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's not net, it's gross. [[Applause]] Is this how teachers are supposed to look?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u453	Thank you. Gos has Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u454	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Really, this bill is about fixing the mistakes you've made before. You're the ones who changed the rules of teacher promotion earlier, and now you're bringing them back. You're the ones who changed the rules of evaluation before, and now you're bringing them back. Plus, you're offering a 10% raise. at a time when the average wage in the economy has increased by more than 30% since 2013, i.e. since the recent increases. What you're proposing with all the raises is much, much below. First of all, when are teachers gonna start making decent money? When will their wages be proportional to the increase in earnings throughout the economy? [[Give the money to the public.]] And secondly, why spoil it and fix it now? Couldn't you just do the right thing? [[What party are you from?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u455	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You don't have the right to say that you're giving some kind of raise to teachers, because they're really gonna get those raises from local governments. There was no money in the budget for this year for teacher increases and so far the Committee on Public Finance has not adopted any revision of the financial plan that would introduce these increases. I can tell you that for sure. If teachers had been given an increase of at least economic growth over the last four years, they would already have a rise of more than 20% today. The fact that they only got it now at 9.6% That means the government's just been doing what for the last four years? He spared on them, saved them at their expense, indirectly robbing them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u457	Thank you. Mr Robert Majka, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! While still in the Court of State at the meeting of the Sejm, I saw that the cost of the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party is PLN 384 billion, or $83 billion. These are resources that can be allocated to teachers. In addition, I wanted to be interested in the issue of the grant of a loan of PLN 4 billion to the Ukrainian State by the President of the State of Andrzej Duda, i.e. One billion dollars. These are measures that can also be allocated to Polish teachers. In my opinion, it is simply unacceptable to approach this matter in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u459	The Minister of National Education Dariusz Piontkowski asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, we have to tell you where this bill came from. This law is, first of all, the implementation of government announcements that we will gradually increase the remuneration of teachers, and its detailed provisions result from the agreement concluded with the Solidarity at the beginning of April. The Government of Law and Justice keeps its promises, and that is another promise that we are fulfilling, and that is as soon as possible. There was information here about the fact that we supposedly took all the allowances from the teachers, so I want to make it clear that it is not true once again, because the two allowances that were abolished were included in the basic salary increase that took place several months ago. In total, the increases that the Law and Justice Government has proposed to teachers over 3.5 years have been more than 20%, precisely over 21%, as requested by one of the Members. [[The voice from the room: But you took...]] This year, thanks to this bill, which I hope the High House will receive in a moment, teachers will receive from September another almost 10% additional remuneration. Including the increase from January this year, this will amount to almost 15%. Never in Poland's history after 1989 did teachers receive such a high increase in one financial year. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Darek.]] In this respect, I hope that all of you who speak so much about the need for a decent remuneration of teachers will simply vote for this good law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Darek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u461	Please. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3523, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Za - 420, against -11, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Teacher's Charter Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Nuclear Law and the Fire Protection Act. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3503. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill in print 3503, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 405, against -2, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on Nuclear Law and the Act on Fire Protection. We are returning to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Environmental Protection and the Act on Crisis Management. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3532. The committees also present the conclusions of the minorities on which we will vote first. All minority applications have been submitted to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Environmental Law. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 91 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -190, against - 234, stopped 4. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority proposal to Article. 91 applicants shall propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 2c. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the second minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Za - 185, against - 236, abstained 4. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third minority proposal to Article. 91 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 7a and 9f. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the third minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For -190, against - 238, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 91 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 10. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 4th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 185, against - 234, holding down 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 94 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 2 and 2a and paragraph 2. 3. We're voting. Who among you is accepting the 5th minority request, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 191, against - 237, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th minority proposal, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 96a. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 6th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For -190, against - 227, holding down 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before the vote on the whole - questions. Mr Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The European Commission's recent report on the state of implementation of environmental policies shows clearly and unambiguously: the Polish government has been doing nothing for two years to improve air quality. Nothing. [[Applause]] At the same time, we observe the dramatic embarrassment of this pure fiction of the Clean Air programme. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] No one's seen a single Pole who's got at least a penny for that. Meanwhile, money is generously distributed for propaganda. About PLN 10 million has been spent for this purpose since the start of the programme, since last year. [[Voice from the hall: In the Podkarpath, come.]] And the government came up with a brilliant idea. Next year he will have to report to the European Commission on how the recommendation to speed up the deadline for improving air quality is being implemented. And what does he do? In this act, the whole responsibility is transferred to local governments, mainly to the local government, without giving either money or instruments, and yet forcing the municipalities to rape and control this matter. Scandal. [[Applause]] [[You wanted decentralisation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u463	Thank you. Mr Ewa Lieder has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u464	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! According to point 6 of the Impact Assessment for this project, the project will have no impact on the public finance sector, including the state budget or on the budgets of local government units. Ladies and gentlemen, how is this possible if the introduction of a law imposes additional obligations on local governments? Are you trying to sink the local government, sink it financially? [[Yeah, yeah. That's what they want.]] After all, these are new responsibilities, and you don't provide funding here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a tragic situation. Really. Self-governments are getting worse and worse. Think about it. [[Decentralization.]] You're all residents of these self-governments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You want decentralisation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u465	Thank you. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 3532, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 287, against - 136, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Environmental Law and the Crisis Management Act. We would like to refer to item 26 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliamentary draft resolutions on: - the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of St. John Paul II, - the establishment of the year 2020 of Charles Wojtyla. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3438. The question is asked by Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a resolution in honor of St. John Paul II. Let's hear what he said about defending life. He said this: The relationship to the gift of life is an exponent and a fundamental test of the authentic attitude of man to God and to man, an exponent and a test of authentic religion and morality. John Paul II said that a civilization that rejects the helpless deserves to be called barbaric. Today we will adopt a draft resolution in honor of St. John Paul II, but remember that during this term of office, the ruling majority rejected the project to protect the conceived life. [[Come on. Stop it, Robert. Come on.]] The second project is being held, and Mrs Przyłębska in turn, this project addressed to the Constitutional Court adopts... Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Boris-Raccoon has been given the post of Minister as a reward for blocking the anti-abortion project. [[Come on, Robert, I'm gonna leave, really.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this attitude is not Catholicism. That attitude is a fariseism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u467	That was not a question, sir. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 3438 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For -417, against -4, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by St. John Paul's Year II. We return to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3436. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 3436 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. In - 425, against - 1, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Hetman Stanisław Żółkiewski. We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3437. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 3437, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -427, against -1, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 with the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. We would like to return to the discussion of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 Roman Ingarden. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3439. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 3439, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For -417, against -2, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 in the Year of Roman Ingarden. We would like to return to the discussion of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 160th anniversary of the birth of Teodor Axentowicz. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3440. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 3440, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 160th anniversary of the birth of Teodor Axentowicz. The formal proposal is submitted by Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u468	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 1 and 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be formally requested to adjourn until tomorrow. 9. [[Applause]] Reason. Mr. Marshal! We are about to vote on the Senate amendments to the biggest in the history of Polish criminal law bubble. [[Applause]] Until recently, the Minister of Justice assured of the excellence of this law. Meanwhile, your fellow senate colleagues have made 42 amendments, because this is one big booze. This time, Mr. Marshal, you and your colleagues would need, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] to see what is actually in this law. [[Boris, come on, there's no time.]] I don't know if you know this, but the Minister of Justice values material objects more than human life. This law contains many substantive errors that do not allow it to be proceded. That's why I'd ask you to be a marshal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] has taken into account my proposal and the opinion on these errors will be submitted to you in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u469	The formal request for interruption shall be taken into account and put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: Until 3 p.m. 9.]] Who among you is in favour of ordering a recess until tomorrow, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 180, against - 246, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. [[Boris, you lost the vote.]] [[The voice from the hall: But he tried, he had a chance.]] We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report from the Legislative Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Penal Code and certain other laws (Prints No 3473 and 3504). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Legislative Commission on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Penal Code and some other laws. The Legislative Commission considered this resolution at its meeting on 11 June 2019 and recommended that amendments 1 to 41 be adopted and that Amendment 42 be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Marek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u471	I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 25. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Penal Code Act. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording to be added § Article 1a 33 and § Article 1aa 34. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u472	Thank you very much, Marshal. Just a quick question. This 1st amendment contains conflicting solutions. I have a question for Minister Warchoł. I'm asking him to tell me what kind of fine the court will impose if a criminal offence is punishable by a sentence of imprisonment not exceeding one year. Simple answer: 50, 100 or 200 stakes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u473	Mr Jakub Kulesz, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u474	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister, first of all! The Penal Code isn't just a law, it's also justice. Tell me where there is justice in this bill, if, for example, the perpetrator of a traffic accident in which three children are killed will be punishable by 8 years imprisonment, and the person who stole three bars worth 2 zlotys in the shop will be threatened with 16 years of imprisonment, which is twice as much as the killers of three children. Where is justice in this project, Minister? There's no law in it either. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u475	The Deputy Minister of Justice, Marcin Warchoł, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u476	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Where was the justice when in February 2015 you allowed the perpetrator of the accident in which three children died to be sentenced to PLN 100, PLN 30 per child? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Marcin!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u477	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 150, against - 254, stopped 20. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Minister, as you can see.]] [[Voice from the room: Discrediting speech.]] [[The guy doesn't even have five gray cells.]] In the second amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 37. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! About a month ago, you called the House's meeting to amend the Penal Code, which was supposed to tighten the rules for the perpetrators of pedophilia. You thought you were going to severely punish pedophiles, and meanwhile you broke all the principles of decent legislation that make it possible to convict a pedophile. Because the marshal thought the Penal Code wasn't a code, anyone convicted would question it. He'll question the legality of his conviction. This will mean that many criminals will be free because the House misjudged this Penal Code. You thought the code wasn't a code, and you opened the door to a lot of criminals who would ever get out because you were in a hurry. You were in such a hurry that until today you didn't set up a pedophilia clearing board or account for any pedophile, but you didn't make a big legal bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u479	Mr Barbara Dolniak has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment 2 is editorial, as are the amendments that we are about to vote on: 19th, 22nd, 26th, 28th, 31st, 33rd to 35th and 41st. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, how this project has been prepared. This is a legal bullshit. [[Applause]] not only in terms of substance but also in terms of legislation. 42 amendments show what the Ministry of Justice has been preparing for a longer period of time. You are talking about the fact that in the justification of this project it was written that the purpose of the Penal Code and this change is to protect the sense of security. However, ladies and gentlemen, this is a mistake. The criminal code is designed to ensure no sense of security, only real security. So I have a question: How is it possible that for a few years you have created such a lousy bill, passed in 2 days, and even today [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you in favour of amendments that don't change this project? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u481	Thank you, Member. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For-- 149, against-- 232, with 42 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 37a The Senate proposes a new wording § 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to join the request for a recess so that the marshal can call the Sejm Bureau and remove the entire draft from the agenda because it is an unconstitutional project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u483	Mr President, ask a question about the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u484	It is precisely because of these amendments that I am about to mention that it is unconstitutional. [[Oh, the tribunal has spoken, the tribunal.]] Firstly, it is non-constitutional, it is incompatible with Article. 112 and Article 9 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 119 of the Constitution, because this law was passed by the Sejm without keeping the proper procedure required to issue it. Secondly, a number of amendments, several amendments, tabled by the Senate, go far beyond the subject matter of the law adopted by us, i.e. by the Sejm. I therefore call on Members and your Marshal to vote in favour of the interruption and to remove this non-constitutional proposal from the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u485	Thank you. [[Voice from the room: May I, Marshal?]] We're voting. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You didn't understand.]] Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For-- 144, against-- 256, withholdd 22. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 53 § 2b The Senate proposes a new wording of point 7. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For-- 149, against-- 254, holding off on 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th Amendment, the Senate proposes not to broadcast a new sound § Article 1 57a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 5th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 147, against - 254, the 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 57b. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another bullshit, another nonsense. Do you know that you are about to vote on an amendment that punishes a person who steals 10 zlotys in a much more severe way than a person who steals 10 zlotys from a pocket, for example. 200,000. zł. You introduced into this Penal Code a solution from the 1969 Polish People's Republic of Poland code concerning the so-called. stealing impudently. Even then, at that time, these laws on the theft of impudently were questioned by the Polish People's Republic as illegible, giving a large area to manipulate. Now the Minister of Justice, Master Zbigniew Ziobro, is returning to the Polish People's Republic Code. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And unless you, Minister, feel shame, I wonder how you, Deputy Minister, are able to sign your name as a criminal lawyer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Under such ridiculous regulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u487	Minister Marcin Warchoł has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u488	For stealing one car today is the same punishment as for stealing 100 cars. Let me give you another example. [[But it's specific.]] One of the district courts has served only ten months' imprisonment for the perpetrator... [[It's a big deal.]] ...who was serially stealing gasoline at gas stations. Acting boldly, he committed 18 such crimes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ten months imprisonment. [[Voices from the room: mustache. A mustache.]] The second example. Punishment of 4 years... [[Voice from the room: mustache.]] I would like your attention, sir. Punishment of 4 years imprisonment for a paedophile who within a few years Many times he did sexual acts on a helpless girl, using various kinds of occasional parties to do so. Punishment of four years of imprisonment. Within 4 years, the paedophile acted with impunity and then 4 years of imprisonment. [[10 zlotys out of pocket, 10 zlotys out of pocket.]] Next example: thirteen burglary robberies in apartments, houses, stairwells. Kara? 1 year 8 months imprisonment... [[But you're not on TV, you're on the Seym.]] If you steal, you steal millions. If you steal, you rob all the apartments in a given cage in a given block. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It doesn't pay to rob one apartment. This is the philosophy of indulgence against criminals. We're done with her. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u489	We're voting. Who among you is against the 6th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 150, against - 240, holding 35. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 60 § 6 The Senate proposes a new wording of the introduction into the calculation. We will consider this amendment together with amendments 28 and 33. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 7, 28 and 33, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 150, against - 241, holding 35. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. 64 The Senate proposes a new wording § 1a and 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 8th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 148, against - 252, holding off on 20. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 77 The Senate proposes an amendment to § 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, you give the opportunity for the court to rule and not have to impose a life sentence. And you can say that it's even interesting that you're going to punish the ruthless life sentence of such degenerates. Only that the European Court of Human Rights has already ruled that a life sentence is unacceptable. That absolute life sentence is comparable to the death penalty, that it must be eliminated from European legal trading, that such punishment should not function. Meanwhile, you want Polish courts to condemn this, which means that even if someone is convicted, after the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights will be released, so it is counterproductive again. Even if you think you want to do something right, you're always gonna ruin something. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[He better not be saying...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u491	Deputy Minister of Justice Marcin Warchoł has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u492	Ladies and gentlemen! In the United Kingdom, almost 80 convicts are being sentenced to life sentence at the moment. The United Kingdom is in the European Union, it is doing very well, it is in the Council of Europe, it is subject to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and criminals, these degenerates, do not walk in the streets, as is the case in our case. The punishment of life's absolute punishment is a just recompense for the evil that has been done. It is also envisaged by the criminal law system in France. France is also in the Council of Europe, too, in the European Union, and somehow no one is calling for such special privileges to be introduced for degenerate criminals who commit multiple crimes that are not likely to improve. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What do you say?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u493	We're voting. Who among you is against the 9th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 148, against - 260, holding 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 78 The Senate proposes a new wording § 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform. [[Prior to the PZPR.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not know whether you know that in the last 14 years crime in Poland has decreased almost twice, from 1466 thousand. Crimes in 2003 to 753 thousand. in 2017. [[Voice from the room: We're happy for you.]] However, in this law, the punishment, which is common to criminals, is increased from 15 to 20 years. The period after which a conditional release from the penalty may be applied for shall be extended. Minimum levels of punishment shall be raised. I wanted to ask why you are introducing one of the most repressive criminal codes in the European Union at a time when crime in Poland is falling significantly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Faster falling.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u495	Mr Barbara Dolniak, a non-member Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's the tenth amendment. In eight out of 10, the Senate proposes a new wording of the rule. I'm the one asking, ladies and gentlemen... [[I'm asking.]] ...how is it possible and what the Ministry of Justice has proposed in the course of work lasting over 3 years in the Ministry, since the Senate is now proposing a new wording of the rule. In 10 amendments, eight is a new provision. And let me remind you one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. In the work of the Sejm committees, the majority of the Sejm was in favour of the previous wording, and today the same Sejm committee is in favour of change. I'm the one who's asking, ladies and gentlemen, how do you read these recipes? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] How are you preparing for this meeting, since you are voting in favour of a different text today, are you voting in favour of the amendment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[But that's what we talked about at the Marshal's committee meeting. We said there'd be changes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this shows what you are creating in terms of substance, but also in terms of legislation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u497	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honestly, I don't believe in these three years of preparation, with all due respect, Mr. Vice Minister, because this revision is one big disaster. It's just one big piece of shit. It took place on political order, quickly, to give any political argument about the Sekielski film. This is embarrassing. Unfortunately, this is not the first, and I fear it is not the last, bullshit in this Seym in this term. There is one thing, however, for which you spoke several years ago, which is consistent with the traditional teaching of the Church, which is consistent with the experience of our history and civilization and with common sense: for particularly perfidious, disgusting crimes proved beyond doubt should be the death penalty. [[Applause]] If it's gonna be a reasonable change, she should be brought back to this Penal Code. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Catholic has reached out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u499	Deputy Minister of Justice Marcin Warchoł has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u500	Ladies and gentlemen! Polish courts are among the mildest in Europe. In the case of murder, a life sentence is pronounced in 3% of cases. The EU average is three times higher - 12% and in Germany, 25%. Here's another thing. Please, Mr Święcicki, explain to the victims of the rape when the perpetrators are over 50% cases receive a penalty of 2 years or even milder... [[Voice from the room: 10 months.]] ...when the forks range from 2 to 12 years... I say: in the case of more than 50% of cases, this is the lowest threat of punishment - or even lower, in the context of an extraordinary relief of punishment. Please explain to the victims of these crimes that crime in Poland is falling, it is safe and there is no need to tighten the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u501	Please. We're voting. Who among you is against the 10th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 148, against - 255, the 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 85a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 11th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 150, against - 235, the 44. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 93c (3) The Senate proposes to amend the reference to Article. 200. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 12th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who stopped it? 430 Members voted. For - 150, against - 258, the 22. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 101 The Senate proposes an amendment to § 4. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law drastically sharpens the penalty for manslaughter, e.g. for a teacher who won't watch the student, for a doctor who's going to make a bad diagnosis, for a lifeguard who's going to drown a man or a fireman. The Ministry in today's opinion on the Ministry's website said that this was not true, because art. The 155th Penal Code deals with bandits and common crimes. No, this article deals with many acts of carelessness. Unless the Minister thinks that parents, teachers, doctors, nurses, WOPR rescuers and firemen are bandits. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u503	We're voting. Who among you is against the 13th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 147, against - 253, holding off on 20. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add point 4 in Article. 105. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 14th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 146, against - 252, the 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 115 § 19 point (4) (a) b The Senate proposes a change in the definition of a public office person. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I congratulate the senators on this amendment. Do you realize that with this amendment, you are pulling your own presidents out of charge for bribery in the public sector? Well, Orlen, Enea, Energa, Tauron... [[Elewarr.]] ...no large company of the State Treasury has a 50% share of capital, while States Senators introduce an amendment which refers only to the capital criterion. If you accept this amendment, it is your colleague, e.g. President of PKN Orlen, will not be liable for criminal offences of bribery in the public sector. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Are you accusing the President of Orlen of bribery by calling...]] I warmly congratulate you on such equal treatment. You make a protective umbrella for your own people. [[Are you accusing anyone of something?]] Once again, I'm pointing out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your opinion is at your disposal. [[Applause]] [[That's how we sharpen the Penal Code.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u505	Thank you. Minister Marcin Warchoł has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u506	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! All those whom the Member has mentioned are punished under Article. 296a. [[Voice from the room: No.]] I'm asking you to be critical of reading all the opinions, all the freaks circulating, and all that kind of stuff. Art. 296a, Mr Penal Code provides: who, when acting as head of an organisational unit carrying out an economic activity, is subject to a sentence of imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years - if the offences referred to in this article are committed, I will not read the whole. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] Mr. Speaker! Congratulations on your legal expertise. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: That's what they said at first reading.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u507	We're voting. Who among you is against the 15th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 168, against - 232, holding 22. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 158 § 4 The Senate proposes to amend its referral. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 149, against - 236, 39 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 197 § Point 3 (4) of the Senate proposes to amend the provision concerning the injured pregnant woman. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 17th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 149, against - 257, 20 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 18th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to § 3b in Article 197 and § Article 8 200. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 18th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 146, against - 236, 41 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. Article 197 (4) of the Senate proposes that the reference be amended. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 19th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For-- 149, against-- 257, holding off on 20. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 200 The Senate proposes a new wording § 1 and 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Again?]] [[Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u508	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, Minister, I would like to stress that opinions on the original version of this project and what the Senate later adopted are devastating. I am referring to an opinion published on the Ombudsman's website... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...to 110 pages of critical analysis carried out by the Krakow Institute of Criminal Law. There are people there, with all due respect to the State of the Ministry of Justice, who do not turn into political officers in both doctrine and practice with a change of place of work, and are working to make the law in Poland better. On the other hand, Minister - I regret that - from the expert you were, you have turned into a policy that will justify every command of your boss, even if it is a legislative buffet. It's very bad that under the cover of a pedophile fight, you want to make a devastating amendment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Penal Code, which is a legal bug. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u509	Mr Jakub Kulesz, Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We just heard a warning from Minister Warchoł about opinions, from fake news. This is the approach of the Ministry to opinions expressed by institutes, NGOs or renowned Polish universities. The opinion of the Kraków Institute of Criminal Law was drawn up, among others. by Dr. Hab. Agnieszka Bartczak-Oplustil, Dr. Wojciech Górowski, Dr. Mikołaj Małecki, Dr. Witold Zontek from the Jagiellonian University Department of Criminal Law, Dr. Szymon Tarapata from the Department of Criminal Law of the Material University of Wrocław, Dr. hab. Prof. Jagiellonian University Włodzimierz Wróbel and Dr. Mikołaj Iwański from the Jagiellonian University Department of Criminal Law. Yes, Minister, a little respect. [[Applause]] [[He doesn't know that word.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u511	Of course we're voting. It wasn't like there was a question. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Who among you is against the 20th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 151, against - 231, 42 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st Amendment, the Senate proposes not to broadcast a new sound § 2a and § 3 in Article 2a. 212. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns Article. 212 talking about criminal liability for defamation. You wanted - I'm talking to the PiS - to make a crime of defamation, journalistic criticism against [[Applause]] politicians of the party of power were prosecuted by public prosecutors under that authority. You're pulling out of this amendment. There was a Member, at the moment absent, who spoke about the article in 2007. 212: this article should cease to apply. In 2012 he said: PiS will eliminate the ill-famous art. 212. It's an attempt at freedom of speech. What happened on February 14th? Minister Ziobro said he talked to the president about decriminating the art. 212. And what happens next? Silver appears and President Kaczyński uses the art. 212 against Members [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform and the Election Newspaper. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u513	There you go, Minister Marcin Warchoł. [[There was no question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u514	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, You don't know what you're talking about. [[Applause]] There isn't a word about the Internet in this recipe, please see this recipe. [[You're not just a Phantom by name.]] It is absolutely not about defamation using the Internet, I repeat it for the third time. However, it concerns falsifying evidence in private complaint proceedings, which is now a crime in public complaint proceedings, right? You can't mislead a court, you can't force a certain sentence, you can't forge evidence to get impunity in criminal proceedings when it comes to prosecuting a public prosecution. On the other hand, the perpetrator who takes such measures to avoid liability, and who does so for the purposes of private complaint proceedings, is completely unpunished. So it is allowed to mislead the court, to deceive in the proceedings, and thus to avoid liability. So there's been a mix-up here. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] I therefore ask you to accept this amendment. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What about Silver?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u515	Thank you. We're voting. [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] [[Voice from the room: I have a question.]] Who among you is against the 21st amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 147, against - 255, the 22. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 240 § 1 The Senate proposes to amend the reference. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 22nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 147, against - 252, the 22. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 23rd Amendment, the Senate proposes not to give a new sound to the article. 259a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Mr Jakub Kulesza asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we can see, Minister Warchoł, instead of answering questions, creates and fights them. There wasn't a word about the Internet just now, so the minister didn't answer the question. Let's see how you can handle this bullshit. According to this law, when a person commits more serious crimes, he can expect less punishment. For example, after a combination of two 25-year prison sentences, convicted offenders for two serious crimes, the perpetrator will only have to face one total penalty of 20 years of imprisonment. Where's the logic? Of the two punishments - 25 years each - we create one punishment - 20 years. You're welcome to respond, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u517	Mr Szczerba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u518	Mr. Marshal! I asked to be corrected, because I don't think Minister Warchoł was listening. I didn't say anything about the Internet. I was talking about the fact that PiS had for many years announced the resignation, the liquidation of the article. 212...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u519	Mr President, ask a question about the 23rd amendment. [[Voice from the room: But he will ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u520	...and now he's using this article to fight against journalists of the "Gazeta Wyborcza" because they're writing about Silver.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u521	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u522	He's using this article because he wants to introduce a freezing effect...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u523	Ask a question about the 23rd amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u524	...in relation to journalists who are critical of this power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And like the Warchoł...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u525	I would like to point out to you that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm right now. I would like to point out to Mr Nitras that you, too, are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Mr President, right now I am drawing your attention and I find that you are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There will be consequences. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Color!]] [[I'll meet you in court.]] We're voting. Who among you is against the 23rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Against.]] 378 Members voted. For-- 136, against-- 217, holding off on 25. [[Applause, applause!]] The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. add § Article 2 278a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Budek. [[That's rude. That's rude. That's rude.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u526	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I'm curious how you're gonna handle this without resorting to demagogy, falsehood, and absurd arguments. Ladies and gentlemen! In this project you have accepted, you treat the life of man and man worse than material objects. For example, if someone deals with people, you've predicted a penalty of between 3 and 20 years, and if someone commits a crime against property of considerable value, they can get five more years. What is more, you are treating the state even worse in a situation where someone will lead to a vegetative state of man than if he destroys the property of considerable value. However, you have not referred to one important thing. How, how, what axiology was at the basis of this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The man who steals three candy bars from the store gets more than... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u527	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: Tell me.]] [[Voice from the room: Answer.]] Who among you is against the 24th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 147, against - 246, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 25th amendment to the article. 306b § 1 and 2 and Art. 306c § 1 and 2 The Senate proposes inter alia. supplementing the elements of the offence with the amount specified in those provisions. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Budek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u528	You can try to ask until it's done, but that's not gonna work. Minister! Explain how you treat human health, human life worse than stealing three candy bars from a store that could be worth 2 zlotys. You guys love to give drill examples. You guys love to wave your hands, showing some ridiculous arguments. In this revision of criminal law, you make it so absurd that you can get 16 years for stealing 10 zlotys out of your pocket, and a smaller sentence for causing a fatal accident in which three children are killed. That's your philosophy. It's either your ignorance or your arrogance. I don't know what's worse: having a minister of justice who doesn't understand or have one who understands, but he's such a cynic that he doesn't want to admit it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u529	Thank you. Minister Marcin Warchoł is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u530	Mr. Speaker! Where have you been for years since the present code came into force, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] where the punishment for armed robbery was higher than the punishment for causing severe, irreparable injury to your health? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Please respond.]] [[Voice from the room: The Lord answers.]] I repeat, the punishment for the robbery was lower than causing severe, irreparable injury to your health. [[Voice from the room: 4 years.]] And for manslaughter, the same punishment as for for forging school cards as for vandalism, as for breaking a few windows. [[Voice from the room: Thin.]] Where were the supporters of such solutions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u531	Thank you. [[Mr. Kuchciński, where is the answer to the questions?]] I would like to draw Mr Nitras' attention once again to his behaviour as it stands for the Parliament of the Republic. [[I'm paying attention to you.]] We're voting. Who among you is against the 25th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 149, against - 226, with 42 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 26th Amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the laws on fees in criminal matters, on proceedings in juvenile cases and on police matters accordingly. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u532	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment, like 11 others, is incompatible with the Constitution as it goes significantly beyond the thematic scope of the Law adopted by the Sejm. This is a completely different bill. We shouldn't be doing this. Moreover, I feel deceived because this law was adopted by the Sejm without maintaining the proper procedure required for its adoption. Chapter IV of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm provides for a special legislative procedure with draft codes and draft amendments to codes, from which no exceptions are provided. Art. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm expressly stipulate that the first reading of the draft amendments to the Code may take place not earlier than 14 days after the delivery of the draft to Members. I didn't get any printing 14 days before and I feel cheated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal Kuchciński! Any comment on that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u533	Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Why are you breaking the law?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to behave as it is with the Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Vice Minister, Professor Warchoł! If you look at the reports from the previous term of office, it is clear that at the time you were an advisor to Janusz Palikot's club, you were not a follower of such strict criminal policy. [[Applause]] Meanwhile, in this term of office, when you received a position from Minister Ziobra, you suddenly became the face of a restrictive criminal policy. I am convinced that when the PiS loses the election, you will be the first to criticize today's solutions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: About.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u535	I must point out to you that you have also joined the group of those who violate the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, [[Joy in the Chamber]] because you didn't ask a question about Amendment 26, and you didn't say a question about it. [[Oh, no.]] We're voting. Who among you is against the 26th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. For - 150, against - 237, 43 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 27 to 30. The Senate reported it to the article. 4 amending act containing amendments to the law Penal Code implementing. In the 27th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording § Article 6 43la. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 27th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 151, against - 238, with 42 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. 153a The Senate proposes to amend the conditions for the use of electronic checks on the place of the sentenced person who has been granted a break in the execution of the prison sentence. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 29th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For-- 149, against-- 241, halted 37. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 30th amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. (Article 161 (3) of the Code) The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 30th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 150, against - 236, the 43. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 31 and 32. The Senate reported it to the article. 5 amending law containing amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. In the 31st amendment, the Senate proposes among others. amendment of the reference in Article. 25 § 1 point 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 31st amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 166, against - 238, with 27. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 32nd amendment to the article. 502 The Senate proposes a new wording § 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 32nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 147, against - 235, holding 40. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 34th Amendment, the Senate proposes that appropriate amendments be made to the Military Gendarmery and Military Orders Acts and to the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u536	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If someone thought that any possible violations of the Constitution could be committed in the earlier legislative process, he will now be very surprised. Mr. Marshal, I have a question. You sent a bill to the Senate, which is now being amended by the Senate. Please indicate to me where the Sejm of the Republic has amended the Military Gendarmery Act or where the Sejm of the Republic has amended the law on liability of collective entities. [[Applause]] The Sejm didn't deal with these laws at all. [[Checkmate.]] Mr. Marshal, this is already a violation of regulations that never existed in history. You're the head of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights who turns out to be a constitutional expert on what you're doing in the Senate. [[You're embarrassing yourself.]] [[Discredited.]] You're changing a bill that's not in the original submission. It's only suitable for basketball. Tell me, Minister, where [[♪ The bell ♪]] is the SOP Act and where is the Act on Liability of Entities. [[Applause]] [[Ugly, Mr. Kuchciński...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u537	This is the Senate amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We're voting. [[Voice from the room: You're breaking the rules.]] [[Voice from the hall: Sandbox.]] Who among you is against the 34th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 155, against - 239, holding 31. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Oh, you lost the vote.]] [[Voice from the hall: And you break the constitution.]] In the 35th Amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the reference in Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Law on State Protection Services. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club. [[Mr. Kuchciński, comment. I'm waiting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u538	Thank you, Marshal. Another question. Where was the Law on the State Protection Service amended in the Law amending the Law of the Criminal Code adopted by the Sejm? Does the Senate of the Republic in the legislative process, receiving an amendment to the Penal Code, introduce - in this amendment - an amendment to the Law on State Protection... [[Voice from the room: Nisamowita.]] ...who wasn't the subject of our work at all? I am now waiting for this legal shit to correct President Duda. [[Voice from the courtroom: When Mr. Marshal...]] If we send him a bill, you'll know how many mistakes there are, and you'll say, before you sign the bill, let him make seven more amendments. [[That's why they did it.]] Well, that's what he's calling for revenge from heaven. [[Applause]] There was no such thing in the history of parliamentarians. And you, Mr. Marshal, are the one guarding the rules... [[He's not watching.]] [[Voice from the hall: No need, it can't.]] ...you call us to order, and you legitimize the illegal activities of the Senate with your behavior. Please refer to it. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame! Scandal!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u539	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 35th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 153, against - 239, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] [[...will uphold the law of the Republic of Poland. He'll cut it right.]] In the 36th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. The 12th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 36th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 151, against - 238, with a hold of 38. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 37th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add to the Law amending the article. 12a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 37th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 158, against - 237, holding off on 29. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 38th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add to the Law amending the article. 12b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 38th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 147, against - 240, the 39. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 39th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add to the Law amending the article. 12c. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 39th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 148, against - 238, with 39 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 40th amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. The 18th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 40th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For-- 149, against-- 238, with 41 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 41st Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. The 20th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u540	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Has Amendment 41 been tested in terms of constitutional compatibility? This was supposed to be the most prepared bill by the Ministry of Justice. Several dozen amendments in the Seym, several dozen amendments in the Senate. Mr. Marshal thought it wasn't a code. Let us be glad that he did not consider that these solutions should be adopted in the form of a resolution, and it is still through acclamation. [[Applause]] I think that after this wave of criticism that we have subjected to this bill, one more question arises to the Minister: Minister, where do you have the brains? And please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: What?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u541	The question is asked by Mr Szczerba. [[The Member does not know why he is going to the podium. He's got the wrong guy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are 460 seats in this room. [[More.]] On March 14th of this year, exactly 3 months ago, an episcopate report was published. He spoke of 382 clergymen who used 625 children. There's 460 seats here. [[More.]] 625 children it is as if to join this House, these places of government, those places of government and the whole Senate. That's the question for you, Mr. President: What has your government been doing for the last three months to get those 382 criminals in jail? There was no prosecution in this case. You can change the criminal code...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u543	Mr President, please refer to the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u544	...you may extend and extend your punishments, but you have done nothing in this particular case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u545	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you were not referring to the amendment. [[Game in the O.R.]] We're voting. Who among you is against the 41st amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 150, against - 240, halted 37. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 42nd Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 21 of the amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club. [[But somehow, without courage, it was.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u546	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the last recipe, this is really the quintessence of how you can break your own bill. You can't even write the recipe that you've passed. From the very beginning, we've been saying that you don't want to fight paedophilia like you said you would. Under the pretence of this fight, you have introduced an absolute legal bubble that hasn't existed in history. From the very beginning, we have spoken and made such an offer. Only an independent national committee composed of experts, not politicians, can explain all the appalling cases. This government is unable to deal with this problem, and this amendment shows that you have made a smoke screen. The elections are over, you're not going to fight pedophilia, you're not going to do anything about these appalling things that the public is talking about. False and hypocritical. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sorry to see that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u547	But this is another statement, please, a country that does not refer in substance to the amendment. [[Mr. Marshal, I signed up for the question.]] We're voting. Who's in favor of... [[Voice from the room: One more question.]] Excuse me, Mrs Barbara Dolniak. There you go. [[Voice from the O.R.: Unassociated.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the 16th amendment, which talks about the new wording of the rule. In addition, we have 10 amendments that introduce legislative changes that ensure the consequences of the changes made, i.e. if they were not, we would have internal contradictions. In addition, we have changes in definitions that are very important for regulation. In addition, these amendments add new provisions. The draft of this law at first reading justified the Minister of Justice, saying that it is a great project prepared for a long time, refined. So I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible that there are 42 amendments and so many major changes? Minister, come to this podium and tell us how you worked on this project. How come you guys created such an unreliable Penal Code? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u549	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 42nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 378, against - 11, with 40 abstentions. Sejm amendment... [[He turned it down.]] ...rejected. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Code of Penalty and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Act on the Departments of Government Administration (prints No 3472 and 3505). I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u550	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Senate has made four amendments to this law which are of a sequencing nature, e.g. Amendment 1 clarifies the scope of the implementing act in question, and Amendment 2 clarifies the grounds for appeal of the optional President of the Agency. The committees recommend that all four amendments be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u551	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. All amendments to the Senate have been tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the Polish Space Agency. In the first amendment to Article. Article 3a (3) (a) 6 The Senate proposes that the support provided for in this provision should also cover non-public aid and de minimis aid. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 19, against - 394, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (4) of the Senate proposes that the President of the Polish Space Agency may be revoked under the circumstances mentioned in this provision if he has been in office for less than 12 months. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For -7, against - 406, the 7. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 3. The Senate amendment is an amendment to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 4 (2) and is legislative in nature. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. In -5 against -413, 6 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 and paragraph 5. Point 9 (5) of the Senate proposes a change of appointment. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. Za - 1, against - 419, holding down 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee on the Senate's adoption of the Act on the Production and Trading of Explosives, Arms, Ammunition and Military or Police Purpose Products and Technology (Prints No 3477 and 3493). I would like to ask Anna Maria Siakowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the Senate resolution on the Act on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. The Senate, ladies and gentlemen, has tabled 29 amendments to this bill. They are both legislative and substantive in nature, while in no way violate the consensus reached between entrepreneurs, the social side and the government, that consensus which has been reached in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The Senate amendments were therefore adopted unanimously in committee. I ask the High House to accept all these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u553	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to amend Article. 3 (1) (a) Point 1 (12). Amendment 8 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 1 and 8, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. Za - 2, against - 421, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. In - 1, against - 415, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 3, 7, 16, 18, 19 and 23. The Senate proposes legislative amendments. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 3, 7, 16, 18, 19 and 23, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. In -1, against -424, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 4. The Senate proposes an amendment to the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. We will consider this amendment together with amendments 5, 14, 20, 22 and 24. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 4, 5, 14, 20, 22 and 24 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. Za - 4, against - 415, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 6. The Senate proposes an amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8. Amendments 15 and 17 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 6, 15, and 17, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. In -2, against -424, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 9. The Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 48 (1) (a) 3. Amendments 10 and 12 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 9, 10, 11 and 12, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. In -2, against - 425, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 13th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 13th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 1, against - 428, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 21st amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -3, against -423, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 25th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 155. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 25th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 1, against - 424, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 26th amendment, the Senate proposes to delete point 9 of Article. 170. Amendments 27 and 29 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 26, 27 and 29, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -1, against -426, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 28th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the Article. 171. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 28th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 1, against - 425, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. That concludes the Senate resolution. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the National Property Resources Act and some other laws (prints Nos 3478 and 3492). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Joint committees: The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Territorial Affairs and Regional Policy have examined the amendments of the Senate. The Senate has tabled 16 amendments. They are mostly editorial and legislative amendments. Several of them, amendments 4, 7 and 13 propose other rules for resolving disputes regarding the exclusion of real estate from the national stock. Amendments 8, 15 and 9 propose a different wording of the articles previously adopted by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u555	Please. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 3, 5, 6, 14 and 16. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against amendments 1 to 3, 5, 6, 14 and 16, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For -2, against - 416, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 4. to Article. The 27th Act on the National Property Resources of the Senate proposes in the added paragraphs. 2, 2a, 3 and 4 rules for resolving the dispute regarding the exclusion of immovable property from the stock. Amendments 7 and 13 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u556	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! All this law on National Property Resources, and then the amendment of this law is instead of Apartment+ one failure+. Now, on top of that, you're wearing our amendments, you've discoloured them into Senate amendments, and you're letting us vote on something that you voted against in previous Sejm sessions. This amendment, among others. He's talking about it. We asked the elders and the presidents to leave the possibility to influence the decisions to expropriate the land, so no, you were against it. Now, here we go, this amendment is being made. So? You will vote in favour. Thank you. [[What are you yelling about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u557	The Deputy Minister of Investment and Development, Artur Soboń, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam, this amendment concerns the dispute settlement procedure. [[Exactly.]] We have accepted, in the case of the National Property Resources, that disputes will be settled by the Peace Commission at the friendly court at the Attorney General. As a transitional provision is needed, which will include those cases in which the President of the Council of Ministers has been requested to decide, this transitional procedure has been introduced. And that is so much of this change, Mrs President. [[Applause]] [[That's what I'm talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u559	We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 4, 7 and 13, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For -2, against -417, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 8. The Senate proposes a different wording of the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 and paragraph 2. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of This amendment is linked to the 15th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We asked, we tabled an amendment to leave the possibility of influence, decision-making - distance from schools and kindergartens - to the elderly, to the wojews, to the mayors, to the presidents. So? You've crossed it all out, and now the same thing is happening with the previous amendment. However, you are introducing this through the Senate under the influence of the loud remarks of local government officials... [[We listen to people.]] ...who have argued that to deprive them of their influence on such important things is simply against the law. After all, they must have any influence on what kind of construction is being carried out in their territory. And now, under the influence of these self-governments, you're changing that. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u561	Minister Arthur Soboń requests the floor again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u562	Mrs. Member! It is in this law that the problem of Polish cities is their spilling out, suburbanization... The cost of urban chaos is borne by all of us, because the Supreme Chamber of Control has these costs, resulting from the decisions of the WZ issued by the city presidents, and is counting on more than 80 billion PLN per year, which is why we have included urban standards in the form of distance. And this distance from the school, which is the subject of this amendment, has been entered there. Self-governments have the ability to determine these distances even more rigorously and use these possibilities. This change, which is taking place here, still means a more rigorous approach to investors, because we are eliminating the possibility of bringing children because in this law distance requirements are different, stricter than in the case of the Educational Law. Therefore, in order that there is no situation in which children from one housing estate, located on the basis of a localization resolution, will have transport, and children from another housing estate, located on the basis of the decision of the WZ, will not have such transport, there will be no possibility of agreement between the investor and the local authority on the issue of transport. In short: If there is a school nearby, the investment can arise if there is no school - the investment cannot arise. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u563	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 8 and 15, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. In - 1, against - 411, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 9 to 12. The Senate reported it to the article. 20 Law amending amendments to the Law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the right of ownership of these land. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes a different wording of the article. 1a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. [[Gretel!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u564	Last one. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you a question. Not so long ago, two years ago, you were provoking a big apartment program based on three pillars. I wanted to ask you, Minister, what happened to that noisy apartment program. People believed it, and you just tricked them, lied to them. One pillar were apartments for rent, the other - individual housing accounts with bonuses...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u565	Madam, ask a question about the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u566	...and the third was the National Housing Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u567	Madam, I draw your attention. Ask a question about the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u568	For this reason, you have deleted a well-functioning program of living for young people.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u569	Madam, ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u570	What happened, Minister? I didn't get an answer at the last session of the Sejm... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u571	Excuse me, ma'am. I have to take your floor. [[You don't have to.]] ...because you're not asking questions about the amendment. Please make such speeches in the following item: Members' statements. We're voting. Who among you is against the 9th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For -86, against -334, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 in the 1st indent, the Senate proposes a different wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 10th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 1, against - 412, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The Senate proposes a different wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 11th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. In - 1, against - 406, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 20 The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 12th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: Changes in the composition of the Secretaries of the Sejm (print No 3530). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have submitted a proposal for amendments to the composition of the Secretaries of the Sejm. Would any of you like to speak on the proposal? We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print 3530, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For 365, against -38, holding off on 12. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the composition of the Sejm's secretaries. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 3535). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print 3535, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 396, against - 11, 10 Members abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 13 June. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 mins 06 hours 23 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 13 June. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of people making statements? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. As the first Mrs Alicia Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u572	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to say a few words about the new treatment of autism in children. Autism is a very sad disease because the affected child is excluded from the family. The name autism comes from the Greek word autos, which means: alone. The family feels that the baby isn't really connected to her, and I'm sure she would love to. It is also lonely and closed within itself. Therefore, various treatments for this disease are sought. Today's best method is psychotherapy, taming the child, showing him love and warmth. Unfortunately, it is a long-term process and it is actually not effective. In recent years, attempts have been made to treat the autism of their own stem cells, which, as it turns out, brings beneficial results. The best method is to use umbilical cells. umbilical cells are cells that are thrown into a bucket after birth. They can be drained from the umbilical cord, frozen and used in such situations. In 2017, a study on the use of cord stem cells in the treatment of autism was published in Stem Cells Journal. It has been shown that using them can bring beneficial results. The study was conducted in 25 children with autism spectrum disorder. The intravenous infusion of autologous umbilical blood has been shown to be very effective. This was confirmed and presented also at the conference in Warsaw in 2018. In the clinic that I have the privilege of running, in Cape Hope, we have undertaken such a test in Allan's boy and to our surprise, to be honest, it has indeed produced a very good result. A boy who had no contact with his family or his parents took quite a step forward, and his parents even thought it was a big step. Neurologists from the University Clinical Hospital in Lublin, who coordinate the treatment of such children on a national scale, are the same. If there are children in Poland with autism who have stored stem cells, then such an opportunity exists for them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u573	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u574	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Listening to us Polish and Polish people! I very much like to meet you at this time and to ponder over Poland. To reflect on matters that, in my and your sensitivity, sometimes come upon us in one place and in one question: How can we respond to a given situation, phenomenon or historical experience together? So tonight, this evening time, this amazement and thinking I'd like to offer you. It is intended to refer to what will happen soon, namely the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. It is my amazement that goes more towards reflecting on what it is like when you are only 4 years old, 5 years old, or maybe 7 years old, and at a time when - it would seem - there is a bright future ahead of you, death, death of your parents, an image shocking by violence, whether it be the Nazi oppressor, or then the Soviet soldier who rapes your loved ones in front of you. What must have been in you, the Polish child of war, that you managed to survive, that you found certain levels of optimism, faith in humanity and humanism? Long five years of occupation. If I think that some of you have entered this time of occupation, being just little children, and then, after this war, orphaned, looking for each other for years to come and never finding your loved ones, then I ask, What can we do for you today? Just in time for the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II tomorrow at 3 p.m. 13 in one of the Seym halls I meet with contemporary young people, scouts, young people from patriotic groups, from fan groups, volunteer firefighters or KSM to try to invite Poles and Poles to create a certain spontaneous civic movement that we want to call a project... You were not given Polish children of war, on September 1st, to go to school. On the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of this war, we would like to close this unfinished march with a clip in a symbolic way and, together with contemporary young people, to come to Polish schools wherever they are, so as to symbolically complete this act of opening the new school year in the new Polish reality, the reality of Poland's safe, democratic Poland, Poland's wealthy. In view of the above, I imagine that the parents of today's students will accompany them in this march, that the bridesmaids of voluntary firefighters or scouts will organize it in a logistical and organizational sense, and that the youth of KSM will ensure that the events associated with Masses also have a proper character. And perhaps there will be adults to whom I am addressing these words: If you are as old as I am, then your parents are children of war. Mine's dead, maybe yours is. I think it's worth the march for them. I invite you, Polish, to take the project Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u575	Mr Andrzej Melak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u576	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 3 May 1919 on the slopes of the Citadel of Warsaw held the first celebration of independence of the Republic of Poland after 123 years of captivity. This feast took place not in palace halls or theatre halls, but on the slopes of the Warsaw Citadel, which was the place of many executions of Polish sons who wanted to cast off the yoke of Russian captivity. At this point, on 5 August 1864, the Russian assassin executed members of the National Government from the January Uprising with Romuald Traugutt at the head. On 3 May 1919, more than 140 thousand gathered here. residents of the Republic of Poland. There were: the government of the Republic, diplomatic corps, episcopate, representatives of diplomacy, crafts and numerous representatives of the Polish people. There was no radio or television at the time, but Poles waited over 120 years for this day and celebrated this day as they had decided. The Oak of Liberty and Independence was also planted here that day. There's been a half-morning Mass. It was attended by many veterans of the January Uprising, as well as two representatives from the time of the November Uprising. The oak of freedom and independence was destroyed, cut out during World War II. In 1993 the Katyn National Remembrance Circle with the participation of the Polish Episcopate, the army and numerous craftsmen in this place and with the participation of the army organized a repetition of this holiday. The Oak of Liberty was replanted, dug out of the Kawęczyn forest. A stone was placed on which the dates depicting the first bar confederation, the establishment of the Constitution on 3 May, 1918 as the date of regaining independence were written for Poles. On 2 May 2019 the Circle of National Remembrance organized again in the 100th anniversary of these celebrations, celebrations which gathered several hundred people. The Holy Mass was celebrated. with the participation of the parish priest of the local parish, the oldest parish in Warsaw. Prayers... Homily was given by Fr. Chaplain of General Sławomir Żarski. Fr. Waldemar Goncharuk. Numerous representatives of all groups and uniformed services involving military, police, professional and voluntary firefighters, railroaders, foresters' delegations from all over the country with flag mails took part in this ceremony. The fire brigade from Gąbina assisted in the Mass. After the solemn Mass of St. [[♪ The bell ♪]] there was an appeal of the fallen, which was carried out by the Warsaw Polish Army Representation Regiment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u577	Mr Dariusz Bąk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Much has been written and spoken of soldiers who are steadfast, cursed. A lot, and it still doesn't seem enough. Because we're extracting them from the memory vault like from a locked safe hiding secrets. They appear to me like those from the 17th century, like the Bar confederates going to battle with the gutters on their chests. How similar were their purposes of battle. Defend faith and homeland from Russians, invaders, Bolsheviks. Before he lost his identity, before he was enslaved. They knew that faith was necessary for the condemned nation, because without it, we would die. How touching are the prayers, the songs of the underworld soldiers, as the solemn oaths made on the holy cross. The goals of the fight and the knight's gutters also bind the steadfast to the January insurgents. And the same resolve: to win or die. Their willingness to die is touching. And how can you be so sure that they're right that it's the right thing to do? It's a matter of honor and sacred love for the country. It's respect for family tradition, for grandparents and fathers from generation to generation fighting in subsequent national breakups. Cursed are the soldiers of the highest trial and insanely brave, with exceptional leadership abilities, brilliant tacticians, disciplined, hardened in battle, obeying the rules, true defenders of the civilian population. They were also well armed and persistently endured the hardships of wandering in roads, forests, from hiding place to hiding place. Why did they ultimately lose the fight for their homeland and the honor of the nation? Most of them were betrayed. There was always someone who, for money, for fear, for the naive faith that he would save his loved ones, agreed to betray them. When faith and honor and courage are lacking, betrayal begins to reap. That's how the Captain died. Henryk Flame nickname Bartek, Senior Sergeant Mieczysław Dziemiewicz nickname Rój, legendary commander of the 5th Squadron of the Vilnius Brigade AK Zdzisław Badoch nickname Iron and many others. The traitors survived murderous torture in prisons. Witold Pilecki confessed that Oświęcim was a joke about what he had experienced in the communist prison. So there are soldiers cursed with martyrs for their faith, the sacred issue of the freedom of their homeland. Łupaszka was judged and sentenced to death by the same judge, who also sentenced the Bishop of Kielce Czesław Kaczmark, the ace of aviation of Colonel Stanisław Skalski and one hundred other soldiers of the underworld of independence. It was a lie to defend the Communists. They called soldiers murderers, thugs, bandits - that's how they tried to kill the golden soldier's fame to justify their crimes. Many were steadfast, mostly from villages and small towns, as Joanna Wieliczka-Sharkova writes in his book. They were going to fight for their fate and the fate of the whole nation. It is good that they return, rise to save us, heal us from oblivion. Perhaps also so that we can understand why so few today must bear the fate of the whole nation and those who raise their homeland from ruins, flogging are laughter, mockery, insults and lies, and even demands beyond possibilities. You can understand attacks from the outside, those from the inside are hard to understand, just like treason. The fight continues and will continue until the nation wakes up. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u579	Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u580	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! June 2019 passes under the sign of commemoration of the great Pole, the Pope, St. John Paul II. On many occasions we remember the historical pilgrimage of 1979. Yesterday, we mentioned the visit of John Paul II 20 years ago from 11 June 1999, when Pope John Paul II came to the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland. For this reason, the Marshal of the Sejm opened an exhibition entitled "The gift of regaining freedom" commemorating this extremely important, unique, because for the first time in history the pope met with the national parliament. The meeting with parliamentarians was held in the presence of representatives of the executive, judicial, diplomatic corps, as well as the Polish Ecumenical Council. In his words addressed to the gathered in a special way, the Pope made it clear that the fundamental role in a democratic state is fulfilled by a just legal order, the foundation of which is always and everywhere a man and the full truth about man, his inalienable rights and rights of the entire community, whose name is the Nation. Nor can I fail to refer to the pilgrimage special to me and to the whole community of the old-garde land, the whole of Kociewi. On 6 June this year. 20 years have passed since the pilgrimage of the Polish Pope St. John Paul II to the cat land. The central celebrations took place at the so-called. The papal hill, where a distinguished guest concelebrated the Holy Mass, which arrived about 300,000. Pilgrims from Poland and abroad. This was an extraordinary event for the inhabitants of Kociewia, for we have never had such a distinguished guest before. Numerous united believers have waited patiently for hours to attend this epochous event. They looked up into the sky to look at the helicopter that John Paul II was supposed to fly in with his accompanying people. Finally, after a long wait, there appeared helicopters that carried the papal crew at the ceremony. A Visit to St. John Paul II was an expression of appreciation for the diocese of Pelplińska. After the main celebrations on the hill near Pelplin, the pope went to the Ppellin Cathedral, where he prayed with Bishop Jan Bernard Szlaga, and then went to the residence of Bishop Ppellinski. The message of this visit to the Church of Ppellin was eight blessings referring to the service of God and neighbor. How timely this message is at this time of service to God and the nation. May we never compromise our service for the common good. Today Pope Francis says to the Poles: Let your life penetrate the example of faith, love and apostolic courage of John Paul II. In prayer I apologize for all of you, for the Church and for all of Poland the care of Our Lady and the necessary gifts of God's providence. I bless you from my heart. And so be it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u581	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u582	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The words of Władysław Bartoszewski, it is worth being decent, it is worth reminding the High House today. It's worth protesting. I would like to protest against the form of proceedings, against the false facts given in the replies during the proceedings of today's draft laws. Case one, electricity price increases, unsolved for six months. And they're not gonna help anybody provide an energy minister who says that I'm gonna be solved when local governments pay higher bills today. When hospitals today pay higher energy bills and they don't have money to treat patients. Today, when Poles pay higher prices for services, for goods, for services provided by local authorities, because the energy price is unfortunately higher. And no guarantees, because it's from the pocket of a Polish taxpayer. Polish people and Poles pay higher bills. There was no reliable answer when finally the 8 billion zlotys that the Minister was talking about will be returned to local governments. It's the money from our pockets. The money that goes to the Treasury companies. Poles should have a fair answer. How shocking today is the issue of the finale of the deformity of education. For three years, the rulers have led to a deformity of education. This year there was a strike of over 500,000. Teachers, students protested. The proposed increase from local government resources, without any compensation, the introduction of a new Teacher Charter without compensation for teacher increases shows how the government is trying to solve for 3 years a poorly prepared reform of education for which the rulers take responsibility. In view of the end of the school year, at a time when the teacher strike is suspended, I would nevertheless like to submit to teachers, but also to students who are fighting for a good, better school, for a good, better education for young generations, for young people, to show that they are right... The next thing is the criminal code. After all, it is a violation of the applicable rules of law when the first, second and third reading processes are avoided by making amendments in the Senate which go beyond the scope of the proposal for this amendment, amending the Penal Code. This is nothing but a violation of the law in this House, and the ruling and majority of the Sejm allow it. We have an unsolved case for many years, and more than a year has passed since the protest of people with disabilities in the Sejm. None of the rulers leaned over the solution to this problem. The words of Władysław Bartoszewski, who loved Poland, who spoke about lawmaking, about the fact that it is worth being decent in life, wanted to dedicate the rulers to thinking, to thinking, because in this way it is impossible for the High House to practice quasi-politics, not to tell the public the truth, but just to focus on games. As a parliamentary for those who rule today, it is a shame. The state, if you do anything in life, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Think about how you do it. I direct to you the words of Władysław Bartoszewski: it is worth being decent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u583	Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u584	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, it was really hard to listen to an earlier statement. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This year marks the 165th anniversary of the birth and 80th anniversary of the death of the legendary mayor of Nowy Sącz Bolesław Barbacki. He was born on 1 October 1854, in Słopnica Królewski district. He was a graduate of the judicial schools and then graduated from the Jagiellonian University in Krakow. From 1885 he led a stand-alone law firm in Nowy Sącz, and in 1896 he erected a house on the corner of the streets of Szwedzka and Dunajewski. In December 1914, Józef Piłsudski, who entered New Sącz at the head of the First Legion Brigade after the end of the Limanovsko-Marcinkowice campaign, settled in the House of Barbacks. The mayor was extremely proud of the fact that he could host a leading politician in his own home, with whom Poles had national hopes of freedom. Bolesław Barbacki held the office of Mayor of New Sącz for 18 years. In the memory of sądeczan remained as a great builder, the initiator of many new solutions important for the development of the city. He started, among others. The construction of modern waterworks and sewage system in Nowy Sącz, pushed through a resolution in Vienna obliging the owners of houses to build channels connecting them to the city or introduce a rent tax. Thanks to these revenues it was possible to change the appearance and character of the New Snot. Not everyone liked it then, and these actions of the mayor were recalled in 1918, and on their wave a group of extremists led to a situation in which the mayor of Barbacki resigned from his position. Despite the full discharge he received at that time, Władysław Barbacki expanded and rebuilt many streets, which then received electric lighting. In his day, many bilateral pavements were built, the market and Jagiellonian Street were paved. During Barbacki's reign, a modern city hospital was built for 200 beds and a school chapel. St. Kazimierz and the railway church. It was then that ornamental plants were developed, which were previously a wild garden. Since the time of Mayor Barbacki's plant, the city park has been named Tadeusz Kościuszko. During this period, the school was also built for them. Konarski, so-called. A small barracks, barracks for the local garrison, advance money and large meat establishments. Barbacki renovated the town hall building and the Jagiellonian castle. As an active activist of the Association of the Falcon and the Sodalition of Mariana, he supported independent organizations, among others. The Union of Armed Action, Scouting, the Union of Shooting and the District National Committee providing assistance to Polish Legions. At the initiative of Władysław Barbacki, the city council approved the support of the Legions with the amount of 100,000. crowns, of which Józef Piłsudski himself was grateful to mention in 1914 in Nowy Sącz. Władysław Barbacki was an honorary citizen of the city of Nowy Sącz and during his life he was evaluated as the most entrepreneurial mayor in the history of the city. One year after his death in 1939, in the district of Wólka, his name was named one of the main streets. Thank you very much, Marshal, for allowing me to make this message. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u585	Mrs Urszula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u586	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is in Wieliczka that 44. World Balneological Congress and Congress of the Polish Society of Balneology and Physics Medicine. Wieliczka is a unique place not only because of the unique nature of the salt mine itself, but also because of the fact that it is here in Wieliczka that Prof. Mieczysław Skulimowski developed a method of treatment using the natural properties of the climate. Based on this method in 1958 Prof. Skulimowski created in Wieliczka the first microclimate underground sanatorium in Poland, where respiratory diseases are still being treated. In order to promote his achievements in this field in 1963, the professor founded the world's first scientific association of underground climate therapy, organized numerous scientific conferences and maintained international contacts. History circles a circle. Today, the Wieliczka Salt Mine is developing and continuing its underground healing activity and it is also an honor to return to the tradition of international cooperation activities, hosting prominent doctors and representatives of science, distinguished guests. Such a dynamic development of spa activities on each level would not have been possible if not for the support and recommendation of Prof. Irena Ponikowska, who is present at a conference that has just begun today. On behalf of the parliamentarians of the Greater Land, I would like to thank you for the invaluable contribution of work and efforts to ensure that this method of treatment can develop in the service of the whole society. I wish the doctors from more than 30 countries a fruitful meeting at the conference and a wonderful experience of their stay in Wieliczka. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-13-sejm-82-2.u587	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I made a mistake voting against it. My intention was to vote in favour. (that's what they say now). I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 14 June 2019 at the latest 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 45]]
