ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u1	I promise. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I'm asking you to... [[I have a request for a recess to complete the agenda.]] Okay, I'll just wait... A couple of MPs make cards, so we'll wait a little longer. I would like to ask you to take your seats, and for Members of the Secretaries to join me in carrying out their duties. Excuse me. The formal proposal was made by Mr Grzegorz Braun. Mr. President, time is one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u2	God bless you! Good evening. I am requesting an adjournment to complete the agenda by the Seniors' Convention. The agenda should be completed as a matter of urgency with the emergency information of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Chief of Police who will answer the question whether the city of Wrocław belongs to the Republic of Poland. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] Reports from the last days and hours give rise to reasonable suspicion that it is acting there on the basis of some other law, a law which is neither established nor valid on the territory of the Republic of Poland. People were beaten, gassed, locked up - martial law. You remember so beautifully here yesterday the need for decommunization of the Republic, so express it tonight. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u3	Thank you, sir. A representative of your circle was at the Senior Convention meeting and did not make such a request, but since there is a request for a break, I will put it to the vote. Question: "Have you all received the cards yet?" Just a minute. Just a minute. Good. We'll wait a little longer, but please... I see we all have the ballots. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of announcing a break in the session will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. It was 189 against 247, 6 stopped. The motion's gone, it's been rejected. [[Applause]] They lost. Bravo, bravo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Sejm Bureau submitted a draft resolution on the determination of the number of members of the Commission for Special Services, print No 9. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Bureau of the Sejm submitted proposals on the selection of the Secretaries of the Sejm, the selection of the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, the selection of the personal composition of the Commission for European Affairs and the selection of the personal composition of the Board of Ethics of the Sejm. Applications shall be printed in Nos 8, 10, 11 and 12 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the determination of the number of members of the Committee on Special Services (Print No 9). According to Art. Article 137 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be composed of no more than seven Members. The Sejm shall, at the request of the Bureau of the Sejm, determine by resolution the number of members of the Committee on Special Services. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, unanimously proposes that the Sejm establish the number of members of this committee per seven persons. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the first reading of the draft resolution? [[I'm checking in.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u4	Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday there was a preliminary distribution of the spoils, and today there is a continuation. The Confederation, of course, knows the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and is aware of the rules of regulation for access to certain committees, but I will once again draw the attention of the High House and the venerable Bureau to the fact that near the Confederation it entered this House from a single list, is not a premium circle. Because you were talking here last night about a fraternity, a new opening...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u5	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u6	...the agreement over division, we strongly insist that this agreement over division does not go beyond the heads of the Confederates, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Over the heads of 1250,000. our constituents.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u7	Time. We ask that you be admitted to the special-service committee, which, of course, requires a revision of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? I'm opening a discussion. There you go, Mr Grzegorz Braun. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u8	Ladies and gentlemen! My first voice of today's so late beginning day I pointed out that it is not safe that not all Polish patriots feel and feel safe in the Republic of Poland... [[They're not patriots.]] ... because the state police at the call of officials who name themselves Polish but, I repeat, do not know under what law they operate, the Polish police intervenes against Polish patriots celebrating the anniversary of independence. In this situational context it is probably obvious that Polish patriots, whose representation is near the Confederation, would like to hold their hand on the pulse of reality, having access to a committee in which matters are considered from a certain point of view the most important (the Bell) for the internal security of the state. I repeat my request to amend the rules of procedure so that the Confederation can be represented in this committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u9	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 432 was for, 11 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the determination of the number of members of the Special Services Commission. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Selection of personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 10). High Izbo! After consulting the Seniors' Convention, the Sejm Bureau presented it on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a proposal for the selection of personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Please take into account the change, at the request of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, in the composition of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Inland Navigation, consisting of the withdrawal of Mr Jarosław Rzepa and the addition of Marek Sawicki to its composition. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation. Jesus Christ! Please, one minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In small committees, digitalization committees, petitions, state control, inland waterway transport, 1250 thousand. voters will not have their representative. Why? 1250 thousand. Because such a decision was taken by the State, above the heads of these voters and members of the Confederation. None of the members of the Confederation have been admitted to these committees. And yet we have two Members from Pomerania, we have specialists, IT specialists, network specialists, ICT systems. We will not be able to vote in these committees and express the will of our voters, which is why we are against such a personal composition of all these committees, carried out over the heads of the Confederation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u11	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Suski asked for the floor. Please, sir, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to correct my previous speaker's statement. We all know the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and we know that there are parities and according to those parities of the circle that have 11 members, there are no seats in small committees. When it comes to Polish patriots, it represents them, for example, Law and Justice. [[Applause]] You can't say there are patriots in one club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u13	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal... Your Marshal... I didn't have a report, sir. We're voting. Hands out of your pockets. Good. One minute. Now it's a vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u14	High Izbo! Well, I would like to remind your previous colleague that any Member may attend a committee meeting, speak on his behalf, as well as the voters, his or her reasons. There is not only one privilege - it cannot vote, but it can express opinions at each committee's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u15	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request from print 10, along with the proposed change in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Inland Shipping, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 437 was in favor, 6 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Information on the inaugural meetings of the permanent parliamentary committees to be held tomorrow, i.e. On 14 November this year, it is available in the Sejm Information System. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Selection of the personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs (Print No 11). The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Senior Convention, pursuant to Article. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this proposal? Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Circle of the Polish Confederation, is reporting. I'm opening a discussion. Time - 1 minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u16	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will explain to the voters that the Commission for European Union Affairs is a committee to which the wide stream of laws created by Brussels bureaucrats, often absurd and harmful, is often imposed on Poland against the will of our authorities. We would like to be able to vote in the European Union Commission as representatives of the Confederation, for which 1250 000 voted. voters. If you think that voting is not important in order to be able to listen, please give your place to the Law and Justice, we will enter these places and we will vote and you will listen. [[Applause]] We speak here about regulations, we know them, but the Law and Justice have the majority here, maybe everything, there are no limits. Yesterday even Mr Czarzasty made Deputy Marshal, so we ask that, according to what Andrzej Duda said yesterday, about pluralism and not excluding anyone, change the rules so that the Confederation as a circle can have a full member in the Committee on European Union Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the minority to have the majority. It's premiere.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u17	Thank you, sir. I'm just reminding you that, in order to be able to change the rules of procedure, a rule committee needs to be set up. For now, the current regulations are in force. [[Joy in the gym.]] The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 11, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. It was 440, 9 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of the personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Selection of the personal composition of the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union (Print No 12). High Izbo! After consulting the Seniors' Convention, the Sejm Bureau presented it on the basis of the Rule. Article 143 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a proposal for the election of the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union. Let me remind you that the Sejm selects the members of the committee in a joint vote. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this matter? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no. 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 438 was for, 10 against, no one held back. The Sejm has adopted a resolution on the selection of the personal composition of the Board of Ethics of Poselska. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Election of the Secretaries of the Sejm (Print No. 8). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have submitted a proposal for the election of the Secretaries of the Sejm. This request has been delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. Let me remind you that according to the article. 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be elected by 20 Secretaries in a joint vote, unless the Sejm decides otherwise. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals? Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation, is reporting. I'm opening a discussion. Please, sir. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u18	Dear Marshal! High Seym! You have decided on an agreement between the four political parties, which are completely dominant in this House, to eliminate the Confederation from both the Sejm Bureau and the Committee on Special Services, where you have justified this by a small number of these bodies. You've decided to eliminate the Confederation. also from the largest committee in the Sejm, from the European Union's Committee on Affairs, so that the representation of Polish Eurosceptics cannot even show by voting how she will vote. The choice of secretaries is now. You have offered us only a representative function, a secretary of the Sejm. We are not offended, we want to show that we can serve the good of Polish parliamentarianism from every position. We'll take that offer. Our youngest Member, a Member from Pomerania, a Member from Gdynia, whom you do not allow in the chapter of seats in committees to the committee that deals with maritime affairs, will represent us as a secretary, helping to conduct the deliberations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo, bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u19	Thank you. Being secretary is an honorable function. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the application from print No 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 450 was for, no one was against, no one stopped. The Sejm has adopted a resolution on the election of the Secretaries of the Sejm. [[Applause]] This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 13 November this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition, has the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[It's a bust in the O.R.]] Would you like to wait or are you okay with this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that Mr Mateusz Morawiecki is in the Chamber, because I will be talking about the case that fell from this speaker yesterday, i.e. about how good it is in health care. And a few days ago, the NSZZ Joint Committee on Solidarity and the National Association of Nurses and Obstetrics from the Specialist Hospital in Mielec sent an open letter to the Prime Minister of Morawiecki and the Minister of Health. An appeal asking for urgent effective action to stop further degradation of Polish hospitals, indebted and indebted at an alarming rate. In this letter, Prime Minister, they write to you... The Prime Minister has already left. We have no doubt that the Ministry of Health is consciously seeking to reduce the number of hospitals, but the method to achieve this is extremely irresponsible and endangers the safety of patients. The trade unionists are calling for the issue of funding the county hospitals. In their view, the current policy of flat-rate hospitals leads directly to the insolvency of these facilities... [[It's a bust in the O.R.]] Your Marshal, may I... Madam, I was just asking you if you wouldn't mind if we could wait. Ladies and gentlemen, please... Those of you who want to have conversations - please do it in the cockroaches. The honourable Member would like to complete her statement. Member, please. I'll count your time. Please, maybe we should wait a minute. I ask you, Members, either to stop the talks, or to have them run in the cockroaches. Let me remind you once again that trade unionists are calling for the issue of financing county hospitals. In their view, the current policy of flat-rate hospitals leads directly to the insolvency of these facilities, which in turn threatens to close or privatise them. These opinions reflect the tragic situation of all hospitals, including the hospital in Mielec. I expect from the Government of the Republic of Poland urgent legal and financial action to extend hospitals so that they can treat patients, because from the information of local authorities from Podkarpacie, who at my request informed about the financial situation of hospitals in their territory, it appears that it is bad, very bad. They are in debt, they have negative financial results. There's no money left for treatment. An example: the poor financial situation in the city hospital in Rzeszów, by more than PLN 3 million for today, has been exceeded the lump sum that is passed to the hospital. So how to understand yesterday's seymous speech by Prime Minister Morawiecki, in which among others. ensure that health expenses have increased, and that the queues to specialist doctors are shorter? It's all not true. The queues are longer and funding has increased thanks to the payments made by patients, citizens who pay health contributions. Urgent action and changes are therefore needed in order for patients to have access to treatment. I hope that the Mielec trade unionists will receive a reply to their open letter so that the situation will not recur when President Rzeszow's electricity price has not been answered for nine months. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of hospitals, the issue of patients is extremely important, and the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki were obviously not true. The trade unionists are waiting for this answer, and so am I. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-sejm-01-2.u21	Thank you, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I hereby order that the meeting be adjourned until 19 November at the latest. 10. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 23]]
