ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Resume session. Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Hello, Marshal of the Senate of Mr. Tomasz Grodzki. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Bravo! I welcome the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki and the new Council of Ministers. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Bravo! Some Members chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew! I welcome the former Presidents of the Council of Ministers of Mr Jan Krzysztof Bielecki, Mr Leszek Miller and Mr Waldemar Pawlak. [[Applause]] Welcome to the diplomatic corps with his dean, the apostolic nuncio in Poland, His Excellency Archbishop Salvatore Pennacchio. [[Applause]] I welcome the representatives of the churches and religious unions. Welcome to the European Parliament. Welcome to the representatives of state bodies and institutions. I welcome all the guests here very cordially. [[Applause]] Armoured Banana. Marian! With a formal application. Request to complete the agenda. I would like to appoint Mr Rafał Bochenk, Mr Marcin Duszek, Mr Robert Gontarz and Mr Filip Kaczyński to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Rafał Bochenek and Mr Marcin Duszek. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Mr Rafał Bochenek and Mr Filip Kaczyński. With a formal motion, Your Marshal. The President of the Council of Ministers has expressed his readiness to present at the current meeting of the Sejm a programme of action of the Council of Ministers with a request for a vote of confidence. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to complete the agenda for this item. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm hold an average debate in the discussion on the Council of Ministers' programme of action with a request for a vote of confidence. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Formal conclusion. I can't hear you objecting. Formal conclusion. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the programme of action of the Council of Ministers with a request for a vote of confidence. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Bravo! Formal conclusion, High Izbo. Formal conclusion. Mr President, please come to me here. Formal conclusion. But may I ask you, sir? May I see you, sir? This is a place suitable for the envoy. An increase is appropriate for the marshal. I don't laugh that high. May I ask you, sir? Formal conclusion. After the presentation. Formal conclusion. I ask you to leave the platform, please. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The Prime Minister is here. Come on, Grzegorz, come down. Formal conclusion, Prime Minister. Formal conclusion. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I ask you very much, sir, to leave the podium. High Izbo! I come with a formal application. But, man, what conclusion? In what mode? I would like to ask you to leave the speaker. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr... With a formal motion, Your Marshal. Mr... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...but I am making a formal request right now, because it is necessary to complete the agenda... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's already been filed, it's already been filed. Are you here as a bodyguard, sir? So please don't come into contact with me, okay? Five minutes off! Mr President, you are disturbing the agenda. Mr President, I ask you to step out of the podium. Complementing order is not a formal proposal. Please come down. [[Touchdown, fun in the hall, applause]] Clean it up! Our boy! Bravo, Janusz! I ask the Prime Minister to give an exposé. Prime Minister, come in. And I ask you to step out of the podium. Come on in. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ha, ha, ha. You're laughing at yourselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u2	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Dear fellow countrymen! Just a year ago, he left for the eternal watch of Czesław Bridge called Wolf. He was born when Poland was not on the map. He grew up in the Second Republic of Poland. He was in an assist who carried the heart of Marshal Piłsudski to Vilnius. He took part in the defense of Warsaw. He fought in the Warsaw Uprising. In the Polish People's Republic he was imprisoned in the Katowina ubecka in Prague. He lived to see the Third Republic of He lived to see our time. In his person, the independent Republic bows down to all heroes today. Silent, nameless, persistent, faithful. All without whom the Polish way to independence, to modernity, to normality would remain only a dream. [[Applause]] The Poles entrusted Law and Justice with the task of building a Polish state of prosperity. Your safe and modern state. A country that everyone can proudly say: Poland is my home. They have entrusted us with this task in elections that have had the highest attendance for 30 years. We have received a strong democratic mandate from Poles, which results from a record number of votes cast on our group. [[Applause]] The results of the election showed that Poles return belief in the meaning of the promise, the meaning of politics. It's a big deal. Thank you for this trust, and I will ask the High House today after giving the exposé a vote of confidence in my government. [[Applause]] The Poles entrusted us with governance in unusual times. We're living in a breakthrough age. The world is moving forward at a rate we've never seen in history. Old economic laws go back to the past, new laws just form. What will be Poland's place in a world that is currently undergoing the fourth industrial revolution? What position will our homeland take in the network of links, in a world based on knowledge and innovation? Will products and solutions reach every corner of the globe? How will our families find themselves in this world? Politics is a promise. A promise of a better future. We do not yet know what the world will look like in 5, 10 or 15 years, but we know that Poland is once again facing a historic challenge and a historic opportunity. It is up to us to decide whether Poland will be among the countries that will shape a new order or whether someone will determine it for us. Therefore, in the face of global challenges I count on extensive cooperation in the interests of Poland of all political forces - for Poland, for development, in the name of normality. [[Applause]] Our goal is a Polish state of prosperity. [[Applause]] Therefore, Poland cannot be the accident of our internal interests - only the sum of our common goals and ambitions. [[Applause]] Over the last 300 years of Polish history, we have faced great challenges: defend sovereignty, regain independence, maintain it and rebuild it after ruins, build modernity, build It's a normal country. There are few nations that have had the way to modernity as difficult as we have, but we have had our moments of history, which have only partially been used. This was undoubtedly the time of 1989. During these 30 years, much has been done. We managed to overcome many problems of the Polish People's Republic. That is why I thank you for the work of all governments, for the efforts of all ministers and prime ministers, including those who are here today in the Sejm. [[Applause]] But, of course, not everything worked out on this 30th anniversary. For years, law and justice have asked aloud: Were the decisions made at that time optimal? Have we taken all the chances in our best interests? Have we acted in the interests of society as much as possible? Was the Polish society the subject or the subject of transformation? The Poles chose Law and Justice for the second time, also because we find better answers to these questions than for 25 years. [[Applause]] And thanks to this we repair Polish cases as no one has ever done since 1989. [[Applause]] Piłsudski, using the phonograph for the first time, said he was standing in front of a bizarre trumpet. And although our times would seem even weirder to him, surely the principle which he had in his heart and in his head, like all the great Polish patriots, would not change, we must do everything that builds strong and normal Poland, we are Poles, so we must have Polish responsibilities. [[Applause]] And will micromania free energy for action? No, it won't. We need a brave Poland and a courageous vision of Poland. We must continue to work for our position in the global network of modern economies. The value of such an economy is talent, knowledge, innovation, regulation, efficiency and efficiency. We must also avoid traps. A free market in which fair competition rules are not established is rapidly distorted. The law of development is then subject to the law of force. And it is the role of the state to restore normality in this unjust imbalance. We see many manifestations of global injustice: the rise of social inequalities, the emergence of corporations so strong that they are able to circumvent the tax systems of countries in which they profit, tax havens that allow wealthy people to avoid paying taxes and ignore social solidarity, great tax carousels, money laundering. It's an anomaly, it's the harbinger of a future we don't want. Here's Banas. Today we caught the wind of history in the sails. Banasia. In recent years, we have just pierced the glass ceiling. The level of development of Poles' income in relation to the world's most developed economies is highest than the beginning of transformation and at the same time the highest in Polish history. [[Applause]] Our main goal, the goal, is to build Poland as the best place to live in Europe, Poland daily normality, prosperity and peace on the streets and at its borders. It's a dream of millions of Poles. [[Applause]] If we consistently modernise our country, ensure fair access to the fruits of development, they sought an agreement over divisions, at least in matters such as security, energy strategy, pension system or demography, we have the best time for Poland. [[Applause]] We are already successfully fighting the inequalities that almost the whole West is facing. The indicator of social inequality, so-called "social inequality" Gini's indicator has fallen below 28 points since 2015. This means that in just four years we have managed to make the level of inequality the same as in Denmark and lower than on average in Europe. Lower than in France, Germany, Italy or the UK. [[Applause]] That's what brings down poverty. In three years, we have rescued about 2 million Poles from the threat of poverty. It is still not enough, but I am glad that so many Poles can look to the future without fear. That's not true. Many of us have in our biography the solidarity. But for us solidarity is not history, it is above all the purpose and principle of governance, the cornerstone of our policy. [[Applause]] Bravo! Solidarity is a government social programme which benefits all families. Younger children receive 500+, and the older ones who go to work are completely exempt from tax. Their parents have a reduced PIT, and their grandparents have a 13th pension. Development must be fair. [[Applause]] It's the basis of our social contract. But the contract starts to apply when a functioning state institution operates for everyone. That's why we invest in local and local roads. That's why we support families. That's why it's effective in Europe. That's why we're developing sports. That's why we're fighting for clean air. That is why we are here, and that is why we are building Poland so that as Poles we can feel here naturally, safely, normally, as at home. [[Applause]] Bravo! The last years are a period of positive economic achievements, a good time for Poland. The World Bank appreciates the new Polish development model, the new structural policy and the new industrial policy. The IMF is moving us up closer and closer to the first 20. The German press draws attention to the Polish economic miracle, and global agencies maintain a high rating and praise for macroeconomic stability for Poland. [[Applause]] The OECD predicts that Poland will be the fastest growing economy among 36 Member States in 2019 and 2020. [[Applause]] May I? Yes, you can. Recent years have also been a breakthrough in innovation. In 2018, R &amp; D expenditure increased by almost 25% compared to the previous year and amounted to more than 1.2% GDP. It's the biggest growth, in quota and percentage terms, in the last 20 years. [[Applause]] This record growth is a symbol of the great Polish creative power that sleeps deeply in Poland and in Poles. According to the IMF, almost 20 million people moved from Central Europe to rich, European, Western countries in 1990. This trend accelerated after the entry of our countries into the Union. According to the Fund, this change caused the countries of Central Europe, including Poland, to lose their income. Our income per head is at least 5% lower as a result of this migration. It is a great tribute which Poland has paid to the wealthy countries of the West. Such a tribute from the poor to the rich is not normal. The state of high standards must stop this. [[Applause]] But 2018 was the first year in which there was a significant reduction in the number of compatriots on emigration. About 100,000 returned to Poland. persons. [[Applause]] Bravo! Poles in the country are finally unpacking their bags, not packing their bags. High Izbo! I would like to see a great demographic strategy set up in the forthcoming term of office. We could be a much bigger nation in 20 years. Right. Demographic strategy and strategy of great return, return of Poles to their homeland. All of them. Those dramatically experienced in earlier generations, those from the East and those from the West. They will enrich Poland. We are on the brink of great changes and many negative trends. Despite this, my government's objective in the next 4 years is to maintain a high growth rate of GDP, at least by 2 and 3 percentage points higher than in the euro area. This will bring us closer and closer to the standard of living of Western European countries every year. [[Applause]] Recently, thanks to the effective foreign policy of President Andrzej Duda and the Polish government, we have been given the opportunity to travel to the United States without visas. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This is a symbolic moment for our entire society, confirming that we are a full member of Western civilization sharing common values. This is the normality that finally came back to us. [[Applause]] The future is a modern Polish state of prosperity. The Polish state of prosperity is a country of families and a country of entrepreneurs, a country for the weak and strong - a normal state. This country, which respects the values of Poles, accepts no extremes, accepts neither utopian ideologies, nor worldview revolutions, nor chauvinism. [[Applause]] We walk with the spirit of time, but first of all we walk with the spirit of Poland... [[Applause]] Bravo! ... Polish equality and freedom, Polish normality, not Polish extremes. [[Applause]] We want to create the conditions for the middle class to grow, wide and equal to the European class, as has been the case in recent years, but we want more than just the promotion of individuals. We want the promotion of the entire Polish community. We don't want to be a rich country of poor people or a poor country of rich people. We want to be a rich community. [[Applause]] Norwid said that everything takes its power from ideals. Therefore, we do not accept such a reason that the main value is the lack of value, that freedom is freedom, that power is for power, that law can act without justice. After all, the Republic is the common good of all citizens. That's what art says. 1 the Constitution, and the programme of the Government of Law and Justice are based on values such as freedom, justice, democracy, respect for property and social dialogue. Our program is based on a culture that builds national identity, family and marriage subject to special protection, on the values enshrined in the Constitution. [[Applause]] We believe in these values and our beloved homeland we will inform where it belongs. Where? Poles are a great nation, with a great past. It's time for the big future. [[Applause]] Bravo! First of all, High Izbo, I'm going to talk more about Polish families, about demography. The word given to Poles is sacred to us. We've proven that for the last four years. That's why we're fulfilling all our iron commitments. The timetable's already set. For starters, development. We'll start with changes that support entrepreneurs. Lower ZUS, on average 500 PLN, for small companies, lump sum up to 1 million and then 2 million EUR of turnover, lower CIT to 2 million EUR of turnover or more than a billion for additional strategic investments for companies. This is a total of several billion PLN for small and medium-sized Polish companies. [[Applause]] But there is no healthy development without solidarity. So we do not forget the pensioners, the seniors, the weaker, the disabled. We will continue to pay the 13th pension and in 2021 - the 14th pension. We also want to take care of senior activity and ease loneliness It's the autumn of life. That is why we are expanding senior homes so strongly and encourage local governments to use government money for this purpose. The family is and must remain the foundation of society. [[Applause]] I know that today some people treat their family like they're lost. The louder we talk about new family models, the more sure it is about minority experiments and minority experimental solutions. We do not agree that exceptions determine what is the norm. [[Applause]] We believe that the future of our children should be built on a stable foundation of the family. When a man comes into the world, his family becomes his first bastion. But family is not just a bastion of every Pole. The family, as Primate Stefan Wyszyński said, is also a bastion of the whole of Poland. [[Applause]] There's a lot of talk in the West about women's unseen work. Work in the household is often more than one job. And there are ideas in the West that since women work so hard for families, it's probably the family's fault and it needs to be disassembled. Instead, we strengthen the family and appreciate the work of women. [[Applause]] Bravo, Matthew. Bravo! We're not in the West? We were the first to undertake a program of huge family-friendly social transfers. We were the first to respond specifically to the problem of unpaid work of women who raised at least four children. In Poland, the gender pay gap is lower than the average in European countries. But equality in the workplace is a value that we will strive hard for, because if for the same work our mothers, sisters, wives, daughters get a lower salary than men, it is not normal. [[Applause]] We will strive for a fair principle: the same pay for the same work. Polish women often face a choice: either a job or a child. The modern state helps with this choice. Therefore, next to the ever increasing availability of daycare facilities, the number of places in daycare has doubled for 4 years. We increase the availability of flexible forms of employment for parents through remote work or part-time work. Together with modern economy, new opportunities and new opportunities open up for Poles. After maternity leave, Mom must have a greater ease in returning to the labour market. Our actions will serve this purpose. [[Applause]] What have you done so far? Every parent knows that family is a big undertaking. Work, school, health center or training - you have to get there on time wherever you want, reconciling the responsibility of parents with the needs of children. Any large family can count on state support, support that has not yet been available, and for families with three or more children we will offer additional reliefs and facilitations. [[Applause]] Various family support and protection programmes will be at the heart of my government's policy, not only in the name of tradition and identity, but also in the name of the future, freedom and normality. [[Applause]] Where somebody tries to play freedom against tradition, we will stand up for the reconciliation of these two values. We do not agree to social experiments and ideological revolutions. The future of our children is at stake, and this future should be in the hands of parents, because this is normal. [[Applause]] And let me tell you more: children are untouchable. Whoever raises his hand, this ideological hand, raises his hand to the whole community. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Bravo! Bravo, Matthew! [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] Thank you. Who wants to poison children with ideology, separate from their parents, who wants to break up family ties, who wants to enter schools without invitation and write ideological textbooks, who puts explosives under Poland, he wants to start a cultural war in Poland. There's not gonna be a war. That's right! I won't let her in. [[Applause]] Bravo! And if there's anybody who's gonna cause it, we're gonna win it. It will be won by the family because the family is an archbishop's value. [[Applause]] Amen. What does it look like, High Izbo, in 2019 Poland? Just ask the Poles. 89% Poles and Poles are of the opinion that Poland is a country where you live safely. This is an increase of almost 20%, 20 percentage points compared to 2014. In addition, 98% of us claim that the nearest neighborhood, village, street, neighborhood or neighborhood is a safe place to live. [[Applause]] Poles finally feel in their neighborhood and in the country normal and safest in history. [[Applause]] In Konin. Konin is an example. Poles also look to the future more calmly. Other studies show that belief that the situation in the country is going in the right direction has increased: from 16% - a few years ago to 51% - in September 2019. It's more than three jumps. [[Applause]] Poland is a safe country today, but there is still one exception. It's road safety. Our roads are marked by crosses, which mean fatal road accidents and tragedies of thousands of families. Road safety will be one of our priorities. [[Applause]] We will create a safe road infrastructure program to co-finance safe walkways, street lamps, pedestrian crossings, roundabouts, lights, islets or elevates on crossings. Macierevich likes it. It can no longer be so that the pedestrian crossing is the most dangerous element on the roads. Studies show that pedestrians are mostly discreet in their transitions. That's why we're gonna put the pedestrians ahead of the crossing. There was a project! And who blocked it? It can't be that the courts blame an older, almost 80-year-old lady with limited mobility for trespassing. [[Applause]] It's the chopstick. It can't be like this. Today we all pay dearly for road pirates, in the worst cases - health or life, in the best cases - higher rates of OC insurance. We will introduce solutions that will make it road pirates to bear the financial consequences of breaking the rules. We will also involve citizens through the Internet and mechanisms for direct democracy in creating rules that strengthen the safety of road users. The biggest enemy of road safety is alcohol. The social permission to drive after consumption is over, but we still hear about the tragedies caused by drunk drivers. We will tighten the policy of punishing drunk drivers, but it is better to prevent than to punish. We will therefore strengthen prevention for those at risk of this terrible disease, including through appropriate regulation and price policy, in order to reduce the risk of alcoholism. [[Touchdown, applause]] Fame, it's about you. 100% The excise is up. At the same time, we will facilitate the movement of drivers with families in cities. We will introduce the possibility of using a buspas when there are at least four people in the car. Buspas performs its function when unloading traffic, not when it remains empty. [[Applause]] High Izbo! We extend the way to development to Poles, we extend the way to Polish freedom. Today Poland, even against the background of Europe, is a country of freedom. Even Members could sing songs from this speaker, although these were not very serious practices. [[Applause]] However, if someone wants to diminish this freedom, in the name of political correctness, restrict freedom of speech, art, freedom of expression, freedom of research, freedom of universities, then I say here: firmly no. We will introduce solutions that will guarantee such freedom, without epithets, without insulting one another, but also without embarrassing political correctness. [[Applause]] This freedom, this freedom also applies to entrepreneurs. Nobody can, for example. force the printer to print posters that are at odds with its value. [[Applause]] We are a nation of tolerance. Yes. But above all, we are a nation of freedom. Polishness is freedom. Polishness is solidarity. Polity is normal. [[Applause]] Bravo! Now I will talk about the quality of public services and institutions of the Polish state. Banana's here. When we talk about a country of prosperity, we often hear only: prosperity, and we forget that it is not just about the financial success of individual citizens. In the desert without other people, money has no value. It is therefore about the effectiveness of the whole state. Without the state, there will be no equal access to all modern services. The state must be in the game where the market doesn't do it. It's normal, but it's not easy. In addition, neoliberalism caused conceptual confusion and a mess in the value system. A lot of people believed false stories that the state was a liability. This disease, fortunately, is slowly leaving. No extreme is good. Franc loans... We're building a normal country. A country that gives freedom to create, develop, work, but also creates and improves boundaries within which every human being, every company can develop, flourish, fulfill ambitions and dreams. A normal country is an ambitious country. [[Applause]] In such normality it is worth investing, because the future of Poland depends on it. That is why we invest in those who carry Poland further: in students, in teachers, in education. Only this year did we increase the education subsidy for local governments by more than PLN 3.8 billion. How much is this amount? Suffice it to say that our predecessors have increased this grant by about PLN 3.5 billion over 4 years, so less than we have been able to guarantee for just one year. And also from next year, from the new school year, we will be spending money for teachers to raise salaries, as for the entire budgetary sphere. [[Applause]] For minimum wage. Modern school is an investment in the young generation, in the future of Poland. Therefore, we will launch a national and EU programme worth PLN 2 billion, which will make the Polish school fit not only the needs of the present, but also the future. These are aids for programming sciences or multimedia boards. It is also a support that will help to complete the necessary modernizations or simply improve the quality of the rooms where our children and young people learn. [[Applause]] During our term of office, we will carry out a great modernisation of schools. Our goal: at least 1000 zero-emission, energy-efficient, green schools. [[Applause]] We've significantly reduced the number of pages, according to Grant Thornton, but we want to move on. We will propose the creation of a parliamentary team which, in agreement with the government, will identify and propose changes: a common deregulation package and a freedom package for citizens and business. Already today I invite the opposition, employees and entrepreneurs, entities of the third sector, think tank to work together in substance. Cooperation over divisions for the common good, for the sake of a good, strong Republic is also a beautiful manifestation of normality. [[Applause]] This process of in-depth dialogue with citizens is very important to us. Citizens' budgets in many of our small homelands already show the activity of Poles. For this I would like to thank all citizens, as well as the local governments, who organize this activity efficiently. We also want to build a citizen-friendly country. Better country every day. And a better country is also a better justice system. We will continue to reform this area. We're gonna cut back on time. So far. Isn't that what the vast majority of Poles want? [[Applause]] Our citizens have the right to get the courts started at last. normal functioning. That's the standard all over the world. Then don't bother. Independence is very important, but it doesn't mean irresponsible. [[Applause]] It's about the division of the authorities, but it's also about their balance. The democratically elected parliament has an impact on the cast of courts in each country: in the United States, in France, in Spain, everywhere. For example, in Germany, an active CDU politician was elected Vice President of the Federal Constitutional Tribunal a year ago. [[Applause]] Exactly. He didn't have a CEO over him. Does the opposition in these countries go to international institutions complaining that there is no rule of law there? [[Applause]] No, because they understand that it's bad for their countries. I would very much wish that Poland would be normal in this respect, as it is in mature countries of the West. Peterovich. Let us not weaken Poland, complaining about it, but strengthen Poland together. [[Applause]] Let us consider how many Poles today would assess the functioning of offices for the highest possible assessment. How many would determine the satisfaction of how to handle their case as 10 out of 10. I don't know, but it's not enough. We will introduce mechanisms to check the satisfaction of the citizen from contact with the office. We can do a lot of official business today only in our place of residence. We're gonna change that. That's changing now. Offices are made for people, not people for offices. [[Applause]] In the age of the Internet, the administrative boundaries of offices are no longer an excuse. We're gonna change that. We will implement public services in many areas. Various certificates or urgent charges - we will make sure that such matters can be handled not only in one specific office, but in any facility, both at home and at the other end of Poland. [[Applause]] Digitization will help us do that. We have great and good experiences here. We have already succeeded in what has been the government's Achilles' heel for many years: health care IT, e-recipes, e-releases, online patient account, benefit from the benefits of the digital economy. It's a 4.0 revolution in practice, for the benefit of the citizens. And not virtual hospital debts. Effects? Every day we issue about a million e-recipes and electronic layoffs. In this and other areas our slogan is: from paper to digital Poland. [[Applause]] Bravo. It's about health care. Two years ago, when my government was formed, I said that oncology and cardiology would be a priority. Cancer and heart disease are a huge threat to all of us. These are some of the biggest Polish health problems. It's happening today. The national cardiac health programme is effective, e.g. reduced mortality and minor complications in patients after a heart attack. We've developed a strategic approach to oncology. The National Oncology Strategy has begun to improve prevention, early detection, diagnostics and treatment of cancers. We have introduced the National Oncology Network to ensure that every patient, regardless of his or her place of residence, is included in an effective treatment programme. We have included a refund of hundreds of modern medicines, for which patients have been waiting for years before, and since 1 October 2019 also the breast cancer unit - a new model of organizational care for women with breast cancer. We've radically increased our health efforts. They increased from PLN 70 billion to PLN 106 billion - by more than 50%. [[Applause]] Bravo, bravo! We will also introduce the announced research package for each Pole after 40 years of age and allocate almost a billion zlotys to the state-of-the-art oncology center. Thanks to our actions, already during this term of office, the medical course will end by up to 50%. more students than four or five years ago. After all, we will not solve the health problems of Poles without doctors. In the Polish health service there are already many modern facilities, equipped with world-class devices. Unfortunately, this is not the case everywhere. To raise standards in large cities, in small districts, we will create a Hospital Modernization Fund. This is an improvement in comfort for patients whose mental and physical comfort should be double important for us. Renewed, modernized hospitals will be a symbolic farewell to the PRL's charity and scratching in as important a field as health. [[Applause]] Bravo! Therefore, we will invest in health, but we will also invest in a culture of physical activity, as well as in a well spent time. We will take care of the development of amateur sport, support with specific money sports clubs throughout Poland, wherever people want to train together, develop their skills, but also just spend time together. We've invested $6,000 in four years. sports facilities and in the next 4 years we are ready for even more. [[Applause]] Here I have some knowledge, because I consulted directly with the Minister of Sport. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Sports, amateur and professional sports will be an important priority for the government. Let the European Games in Krakow be an example in 2023. It's another big party in Poland. Sports enjoy everyone, after all, the promotion of our team to Euro 2020 is a joy for every Pole. Congratulations to Polish footballers. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Thanks, Matthew. Bravo, Minister! Matthew's been running to the gate lately. The government is a tool for citizens to build their own country. These tools must be efficient, so we will make a fundamental review of state institutions, cutting red tape, administration, and thus save at least a few billion zlotys. That's why from the beginning of our governments we've been betting on efficient institutions fighting tax fraud, effective services... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes, sir. Banana's here. ...effective special services and efficient development institutions, like the Polish Development Fund, which other countries of the region want to learn from us. [[Applause]] Bravo! In order to achieve all these ambitious social and development plans, we must rely on a modern economy. The modern economy needs to rely more and more on professionals, more and more earning workers. The model of development based on the belief that Poland is supposed to deliver cheap labour, was like a vicious wheel, like a car parked in front of a horse. In this way it is difficult for the Polish economy to go far. It fit the others, but it cut the branch below us, which is why we're done with it. The heart of modern economy is entrepreneurship, the responsibility of the state is to support entrepreneurs, create conditions for development, a predictable law allowing investment planning and a tax system that motivates development. Therefore, the PiS government reduces taxes for entrepreneurs (Movement in the Chamber), we support and support Polish companies, because supporting their companies is an absolute norm, is a normality. Foreign companies are big, strong and already supported by their countries. We have been told that capital has no nationality, but it is nonsense. The first term of office was aimed at tax sealing. We will not stop these efforts, but at the same time decisively, pointlessly and systematically simplify tax law and introduce further solutions supporting Polish companies, small and medium-sized enterprises. Today there are already half as many tax checks as in the days of our predecessors. During this term of office, we will propose a further overhaul of the tax system so that further benefits can be enjoyed by the widest possible number of Poles. We will introduce further investment incentives for the smallest entrepreneurs, e.g. the possibility of immediate settlement of investment costs in fixed assets, without the need for long-term and depreciation formalities. [[Applause]] But not at Sławek Nowak's. We'll introduce the so-called. Estonian CIT for micro- and small companies, i.e. the transfer of tax collection at the moment of profit distribution by the company. It supports the reinvestment of profits and facilitates own financing for small companies that need a capital injection very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! But we will also be one of the most friendly countries for foreign investors. Just read the Global Best to Invest report, where Poland is in fifth place in the world, after China, Germany, Great Britain or India. We will cooperate with such investors, but without sale of Polish family silvers. We will also continue to support the international expansion of Polish companies. As in the first term, we will recolonize on market conditions, because the more Polish companies, the more freedom and prosperity, the more normal. [[Applause]] The fourth industrial revolution, big date, artificial intelligence, learning machines, 3D printers, cybersecurity, data clouds - either we're going to be active participants in this revolution, or we're going to be pushed to the side of history. We are an ambitious nation and we want to get into the mainstream of the world's economic change. Finally, after hundreds of years, this is the most important task for us: let us open Poland the door to modernity, to the future. [[Applause]] We want to promote creativity and innovation. Poland becomes technology. It's in our DNA. Pride extends our breasts, as we can see that Polish students in team programming are in the most accurate world front. Polish students must be ready to meet new requirements. The school has a great duty to prepare them for this. The race continues over time, so we will adapt the programme of science and vocational education to the requirements of modern economies. Poland is a great project. Entrepreneurs and employees need not be and should not be on two sides of the barricade. In mature countries, agreement is normal. We will be patiently discussing state-employer-worker issues within the Social Dialogue Council so that healthy compromises build strong growth. Just like tonight. Projects imposing new obligations will be treated in a special way. We want the principle to be simple - one new regulation removes another. [[Applause]] We will also promote employee shares. Let us also ask whether it is normal for subsidies for Polish farmers to be lower than subsidies for French or German farmers in the next budgetary perspective. No. We have convinced Europe of our solutions on the issue of migrants, we have convinced the Polish Commissioner for Agriculture and we will convince Europe of good solutions for villages at European level. [[Applause]] Bravo! These solutions must be as good as possible for the Polish countryside, for small, medium and larger farms. Poland is a huge value for Polish culture, for Polish nature, Polish economy and Polish society. [[Applause]] Yes, High Izbo, you cannot overestimate the role of the state in the economy, but underestimating it is the same sin. We will break for good with the curse of temporary - temporary solutions, temporary projects. It is normal for us that Poland has regained its ability to take long-term perspectives. But in order for us to develop for the next 10, 20, 30 years, we need to think in this perspective. That is why we will continue the challenges and plans we have set ourselves in the Responsible Development Strategy, because we want Poland to avoid medium-development traps and to become a member of the developed countries of the world. I want to make it clear that Poland can and will be Poland's big projects, projects that will mean a real civilization leap of our country... I don't believe it. ... projects that will make Poland one of Central Europe's key transport and energy centres. Strategic investments of the Polish state will also be a cushion of security against today's forecasts in the world economy. High Izbo! Yes, Poland of big projects is also normal. Normality in the case of a brave state and an ambitious society. Insanity is the defensive voices saying that if there is something in Berlin, then why do we need it in Warsaw. [[Applause]] The state can't just be a night watchman, and it's sleepy on duty. You can't abdicate. [[Applause]] Nice. Therefore, over the next 4 and 6 years, in line with the Responsible Development Plan, we will invest tens of billions of PLN in the largest Polish projects that will strengthen our community inside and outside our position. That's, among other things. excavation of Vistula mine, tunnel to Świnoujście, construction of Central Communication Port, Via Baltica, Via Carpatia, construction of more than one hundred bypasses, repair of hundreds of stations, hospitals, schools. It is a huge programme of modernization and expansion of railway connections, powerful investments in renewable and conventional energy or finally construction of Baltic Pipe - a new gas supply corridor, which will at the same time be the symbolic end of Poland's dependence on gas supplies from the East. [[Applause]] This is certainly expected by Poles normality in energy security of Poland. What about carbon? As for the groundbreaking nature of the Local Roads Fund programme - we have already said a lot. It's called Schletinski. If anyone has any doubts, talk in their districts and municipalities. This program will continue. But I also mentioned railroads. Our goal is to modernise and build more than 9 thousand. km of railroad tracks. Such length of tracks could be covered by the Polish border almost three times. We're gonna wrap it up. It is a total of several hundred places in Poland: Polish villages, Polish towns and cities, which will be included in the timetable of the PKP. It is a huge number of newly built platforms and stations and rebuilt stations, which after 1989 fell into ruins. It's a normal thing to do. And activation of LOT. It is everyday convenience for people and fair development in practice. Prosperity also depends on good infrastructure, and good infrastructure depends on how we use public capital in the development service. The state of prosperity is an equation to which a factor in the form of strong, independent Polish capital is necessary. The main feature of the development of the Third Republic of Poland from a macroeconomic point of view can be defined as this: to a large extent it was consumption on credit. The future must be based on savings-based investments as well as on consumption, but based on increasingly better earnings and own investments. Therefore, one of the best information that came to me this year is the data of the CSO, which shows that for the first time in the years of the Third Polish Republic there were more Poles who could save some money than those who could save nothing. [[Applause]] The saving revolution takes place in Poland without much noise. Still, it deserves to be called a historical moment. It's happening right in front of us. The failed experiment, which was OFE, wasn't normal. To borrow it to put it in a deposit. Does anyone do that? Today we give Poles a choice. We're stealing - 15%. . In our project, everyone can receive money from the OFE, which will become private retirement funds. [[Applause]] But you can also assign your contribution to your ZUS account. We have done this because we believe that partnership and freedom of decision give rise to trust, and there is no pension system without trust. We've done a lot more than that. We've put in place the first groundbreaking private savings program. Private savings, which is the basis of healthy liberalism and capitalism, the basis of a healthy economy, as already argued by Mill, Spencer or Weber. This program is PPK - employee capital plans: benefit for future pensioners, motivated employees, motivated employers and stable program of saving funds, formation of long-term Polish capital, epoch change. Our program is a program initiated by the government, but the savings that Poles collect thanks to it are fully private and inherited funds. But at the same time we understand Poles' distrust of the system. It didn't come out of nowhere. That's why I have a proposition for everyone sitting here in the gym: Let's fix it together. Let's change the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. [[Touchdown, applause]] Oh! Shame, really. Let us change the Constitution of the Republic of Poland so as to guarantee the means of PPK and individual pension accounts, guarantee their privacy and protection. [[Applause]] This is how we can regain the trust of our citizens, restore their faith in a worthy existence. Bravo! At the same time, my government will continue to manage the state's finances responsibly. We'll build stable public finances. We're going to build finance that will give us prospects for development. It took four years, four good years to have such concepts as declining public debt, tax sealing or a balanced budget in the Polish dictionary. [[Applause]] Bravo! Now our approach to energy and climate. For the first time in history, we are able to reconcile the three main principles of our energy policy: energy security, price competitiveness and environmental care. And coal. Traditional energy will still be important in our electricity system for a long time, but reality is changing. Once we couldn't afford to develop renewables, and now we can't afford not to develop them... Then who destroyed them? ...also because it can give a powerful boost to development for the Polish industry. Prosumer energy, photovoltaics, a programme for the construction of offshore farms, electromobility, as well as nuclear power plants - it is not only an energy programme, it is also an economic programme. Polish shipbuilding, metal, steel industry, precision mechanics, Polish seaports - they will all benefit from such investments. To make full use of this huge potential, which can be compared with the largest pre-war development programmes, we will establish in the government a proxy for renewable energy sources. We're already generating a dozen times more electricity from solar energy than we did a few years ago. The total power is 1.5 GW. There's 100,000 behind this data. Prosumers that make our energy green. Solar collectors are increasingly powering both blocks from large plates as well as rural houses. But responsible thinking about the environment must also fight to ensure that plastic does not flood our planet. We will introduce a deposit system for disposable plastic bottles and a number of programs to reduce plastic consumption. [[Applause]] In many areas, we are even more ecological than we seem. About 3 million Poles drive cars for gas. We're developing an electromobility program. It's a process that needs support. We will therefore propose further reliefs for those who use environmentally friendly means of transport. Clean transport is supposed to be good for nature and good for our wallets. At the same time, we consider it a mistake when from Poland and the Union, as a result of climate regulation, jobs flee to neighbouring countries. The carbon footprint, tax regulation and prevention of carbon leakage must support Polish energy and Polish transformation. Nor do we accept discrimination and disregard our starting point. We need to have some power supplies. The most expensive is the electricity not delivered. It's a big problem for our factories, our homes and our hospitals. Our pro-climate transformation must be safe and beneficial for Poland. [[Applause]] Poles have the right to allow their children to breathe clean air. It's normal, it's not ideology, it's a public good that doesn't know political divisions. We will therefore continue to develop the Clean Air programme intensively. This is not a matter of the right or left. We have implemented new regulations in housing construction. Between 2011 and 2014, an average of 143 thousand were put into service. apartments. Between 2017 and 2020 this will be over 200,000. apartments. [[Applause]] Our National Housing Program, part of which is What? Where? We have transformed the right to use perpetual land under residential buildings, this relic of the Polish People's Republic into a normal property right. [[Applause]] Bravo! We all know that Poland has a wonderful history, but we do not believe in a wonderful future. Great civilization projects will create such a future. Finally, Poland's development is catching up with our imagination. Now with Poland's position in the region and Europe. Oh! We take responsibility for Poland, but we are also ready to take responsibility for our region, for Central Europe and for the European Union. [[Applause]] 30 years ago, it seemed that the fall of the Iron Curtain led to the establishment of a global order. Today, unfortunately, we see that the world has become rather a space of new disorder. There have been new threats, such as global terrorism or waves of immigration. New ones, such as corporations whose budgets often exceed the GDP of medium-sized countries, have joined traditional actors on the global stage. We entered the European Union in a club of equals, not in a school with a class of students and a teacher's room. It's a bad model, even if we're supposed to be top of the class. As Lech Kaczyński said: we are looking for a partnership Europe in which our country belongs the place resulting from its size and history. There is nothing more normal than fighting for your own interests in the European Union. Everyone does that, it's standard. [[Applause]] Bravo! We have a plan for the Union. A plan that can be expressed in a few simple points. First of all, solidarity and subsidiarity. We want to reduce centralisation and Brussels bureaucracy. We want to restore solidarity and subsidiarity, in accordance with Article. 5 of the Treaty on the Union, but also with a preamble and an article. Two of our constitutions. Second, fair taxes. We will strive for a fair and effective tax system. For years, large international corporations have avoided paying taxes, various accounting tricks have made profits. It's not normal. The world's largest and richest companies have to pay taxes where they profit. [[Applause]] We changed this part in Poland, we will change it in Europe. A few years ago, we started to say out loud that we had to end tax havens, that we had to fight the VAT mobs. Today, the whole of Europe repeats this and uses our experience. [[Applause]] A friend's sitting there. I'm going to repeat how Katon talks about Carthage: tax havens must disappear, they must be closed. It's no paradise, it's a nightmare for ordinary people, for families and countries. It is not normal that the Union, our European Union, loses EUR 150 billion a year in CIT, the size of the annual budget, and does not see this elephant in peace. [[Applause]] Nice. And the second elephant in the form of €155 billion VAT loss. Oh, I think we could use a little more law and justice in the Union. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Third, fair competition. We will not agree to discrimination against Polish entrepreneurs. We want to finish building the common market. Over the last 15 years, Polish entrepreneurs have conquered EU markets by hitting them. It's time to make all the difficulties go away. And that's what we're going to fight for in Brussels with all our might. The dominant position of many corporations in certain sectors distorts competition. The concentration of resources in the hands of the strongest players is a disorder of normal, healthy market development. The Polish UOKiK will strongly counter the dominance of various industries by stronger ones. [[Applause]] Fourthly, the fight for Treaty freedom to provide services. Fighting absurdities such as the need to return 200,000. Polish TIRs, Polish trucks to the base - resulting in pollution of the environment - only to reduce the competitiveness of hard-working Polish drivers and Polish entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] Fifthly, the European Union's ambitious budget with new own revenues, with an extensive agricultural policy and the construction of road, rail or environmental infrastructure. Strengthening the Cohesion Friends Group, the 16 EU countries with similar objectives, will help us to fight this ambitious budget. Sixthly, the partnership of the West. We will defend the Alliance of Europe and the United States. Just as the European Union is the guarantor of continental order, NATO takes care of global order. Poland is and must remain an integral part of both of these organisms. [[Applause]] The irresponsible swinging of our European ship, the extremes of isolationism, the disintegration of the Union, but also the federalization of the Union, we strongly reject as harmful and dangerous. [[Applause]] NATO is the most powerful military alliance in the history of the world, and that's because its goal is to preserve peace. The voices of some leaders questioning the article. 5th Washington Treaty or failure to fulfil allies' obligations, i.e. 2% GDP in defence, weakening our security, threatening the future of the Union and NATO. We're going to counter it. [[Applause]] Europe needs to return to its roots, to its values, to its founding idea, to its Christian values. We no longer live in a time of safe Western domination. In the Far East, the Middle East and for us the nearest East are international players who are willing to benefit from Europe's weaknesses. That is why we want an ambitious European Union open to the adoption of new members open to the Western Balkans. If we do not present a real offer to neighbouring countries, others will present it: Russia, China, Turkey, radical Islam. It's already happening. We want a Union that works closely with the UK after Brexita, the active Union and has global aspirations. This vision requires efficiency: efficiency of the Polish economy, efficiency of Polish diplomacy, efficiency of Polish science, strength of Polish values. It's obvious. But all of this together isn't enough. There is still a need for cooperation. Today, the Visegrad Group has become an important pole of Europe, a pole of political reason and values, an oasis of peace and normality. Together, we are seeking a good EU budget. Together, we prevented thousands of refugees from coming from the Middle East. [[Applause]] Together, we stopped bad personal decisions. This is largely due to our activity. This cooperation for the benefit of Europe will be deepened and developed, as will the tedious efforts to develop the Tri-marine, a new strategic dimension of the transatlantic community. (Applause) Bravo! The United States, our most powerful ally, has made a decision, thanks to the efforts of President Andrzej Duda and the Minister of National Defence, to increase the U.S. military contingent in Poland more than ten times. Although the world is not a safe place today, Poland becomes safer by day. [[Applause]] A great friend of Poland and one of the world's greatest leaders finally said: Poland is neither in the east nor in the west. Poland is at the heart of European civilization and has greatly contributed to the development of this civilization. [[Applause]] The center of the world. Yeah, it's not just rhetoric. Poland has a chance, we have a great chance, like the Lorenzo Teisseyre zone, to connect the West to the East, the North to the South of Europe. Here, with us, the best features of European heritage, European values can find their future. This combination is our goal. [[Applause]] Finally, a few sentences about the pride of belonging to the national community and about Polish culture. Generations of Poles grew up on the Lantern of Sienkiewicz, a novel about the bitter fate of the emigrant and love for his homeland. The constant flow of blood, migratory waves, one after the other, is the drama of Poland. Today the Poles return to their homeland again. Finally, today Poland for generations of migrants can be a hope and a future, a place of return. [[Applause]] Pride. And how can Poland be seen from the outside today? We could ask each of the 20 million tourists who will visit Poland this year. It's a record that shows how powerful our homeland is. They see what we forget too often. Poland is a beautiful, interesting, rich country. A country we can be proud of. We also want to attract our fellow countrymen from all over the world. To this end, Polish summer schools for children and young people will be established, so that the next generations of Poles born abroad will be able to ask where Poland lies, not only to indicate the place on the map, but to make Poland lie in their hearts and in their plans. [[Applause]] Bravo! My sleep. Father Kornel Morawiecki emphasized that Poles have a work of great pride. There was no war coming out of our homeland, we were not the perpetrators of anyone's destruction. On the contrary, how few of us were defenders of freedom. Poland is today facing a great opportunity to build its good future, a future good for itself and for others. [[Applause]] Pride. In today's world, these communities, these countries, are best able to reach consensus on key issues. We need to find out, not beat. We don't have to agree on everything. Let's start by agreeing on some of the most important things. Lech Kaczyński said that Poland needs wine settlement, but Poland needs consent even more. [[Applause]] Bravo! That is why we are open to cooperation, which is why in many matters of health care Prof. Marian Zembala advises us, which is why Marek Balicki is the government's attorney for psychiatry reform today. After all, this is not a parliament of five electoral committees. This is not a parliament of 560 parliamentarians, but a parliament of all of us, of the whole nation. [[Applause]] And although each of us looks at Poland from a different perspective, although we look at Poland from different perspectives, we still see the same horizon. You know what I see on this horizon? The future generations of Poles grateful that in 2019 their ancestors came off the path of even deeper division, that they chose to agree on the fundamental interests of our country. Ask Macierewicza about it. That's what I want, and that's what I'm asking. [[Applause]] Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear fellow countrymen! I believe in our own path. I believe in values that didn't die with our ancestors, but lasted for generations. I believe in Polish independence and stubbornness, which gave so many great scientists and explorers, so many silent heroes. I believe in Polish imagination and Polish sensitivity, which expressed themselves in the indestructible works of art and works of the human spirit. I believe in Polish entrepreneurship and Polish talents that overcome all adversities. I believe in the potential of our country, which has not been fully exploited in the last three decades. And I believe more than ever that the moment has come to turn this potential into reality. [[Applause]] We can be the strongest generation Poland had. We can be a generation that will see Poland great and free... I think we could use some specifics. ...like in the dreams of our fathers, happy and wise as in the prayers of our mothers and grandmothers. This ambition is older than our divisions. It's bigger than them. It's the ambition that all Poles carry. We must have perseverance and, above all, faith in ourselves. It is precisely because of perseverance and faith in ourselves that we are here where we are. Dear fellow countrymen! We all carry a spiritual heritage whose name is Poland. Let us follow the advice of Andrzej Trzebiński, our war poet: let us not pretend that Poland is somewhere else, that it is something else. It's where our ancestors left it to us, and it will go where our efforts will bring it. What kind of Poland will we give to our successors? The time has come to decide. Size is a matter of choice. We are going to the new one and may God watch over our way. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, long, turbulent applause]] [[Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki receives a bundle of flowers]] Bravo! Bravo! Bravo, Prime Minister! Some Members chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u4	I would like to inform you that today, in accordance with the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, convenes the first meeting of the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union at 3 p.m. 12.30 in room 337 in building K. The following meetings of the teams will be held today: - at 1 p.m. 12 - Parliamentary Panel on Persons with disabilities, - at 1 p.m. 12.30 - Parliamentary Team for Life and Family, - at 1 p.m. 12.30 - Parliamentary Women's Rights Team, - at 1 p.m. 13 - Parliamentary Panel on Diabetes, - at 1 p.m. 14 - The Agricultural Parliamentary Team, - at 1 p.m. 19.40 - Parliamentary Panel on Construction express roads S6 and S11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u5	Thank you very much. I'm ordering an adjournment until noon. 13. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 30 hours 13 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. I ask Members to take their seats. We continue to consider item 9 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the programme of action of the Council of Ministers with a request for a vote of confidence. The Sejm established in the discussion on this item the distribution of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 9 and 117 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. Paragraph 112. 1 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in the debate on the action programme and the request for a vote of confidence of the Council of Ministers set up by the President in accordance with Article. Article 154 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution, presented by the President of the Council of Ministers, Marshal of the Sejm, in addition to the order of speakers recorded in the vote and after the list of speakers and questions has been exhausted, shall only give the floor to the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński will be the first to speak. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard long, full facts, numbers, lapidary phrases, different threads, but at the same time speeches that present a coherent concept. A coherent concept of our future. You can say this: A window of possibilities opened up in front of Poland. The window of the opportunity to get what our society deserves, our nation, that is, the European standard of living, the Polish state of prosperity. And you have to take advantage of it. The presentation is a convincing plan. In fact, it refers to how to do this, how to get to that point. It contains a diagnosis. Of course because it couldn't have been too long, a very general diagnosis, but this is a diagnosis. on the one hand, the disorder in the world today, the collapse of certain structures that have existed so far, and some confusion about what will happen later, but also the diagnosis of the following changes very rapidly in the world economy. Changes which, as the Prime Minister said, undermine or repeal the former economic laws, and there are no new ones, and in any case they have not been described. And this is a difficult situation in many ways, but this is also a situation that opens up opportunities. It opens up the possibilities of actions that will be going precisely what we are talking about all the time, and in the speech, and in this brief speech, it was, is and will be talked about. What are the reasons, because these conditions were also mentioned, for a positive decision? A positive decision concerning Poland's participation in this great race, the technology race, the race of economic change of another kind, the race in which assets, coins, you can say, will be talents and there are already talents, innovative abilities, entrepreneurship, the strength of science and its links with the economy. Well, it can be said that yes, today, there is a situation in which we can say that there are conditions. Poland is today, both socially and economically, different from 4 years ago. [[Applause]] Many numbers are quoted here, both those presented by Polish institutions and those presented by international institutions - numbers and forecasts. That's the reason to appeal, the reason to take part in this race. And that's one thing. But it is not that the economic or organisational conditions themselves, and even the social, very important, fundamental ones, are sufficient here. It is also necessary to refer to those elements of social life, a broadly understood social life, national life, which are often questioned, which are often not accepted by all. First of all, one must realize that the power that drives great changes, the force that leads to their success, are ideals. There are ideals, and voidness, when it comes to values, axiological void, is destruction. This is a situation that does not favor anything good and certainly does not favor success. And that's obvious. And it is also obvious that in this case it is about Polish ideals, and among these ideals freedom is certainly the first place. [[Applause]] But there is another value that cannot be forgotten. This value is trust. Trust comes - and in any case very often it comes from promises that have been fulfilled. Law and Justice have fulfilled their promises and thus gained confidence, and it can be said: it has renewed Polish democracy. [[Applause]] And that, too, is a condition for the success of this great plan. Finally, the value, central value and basis of the organization of our society, a kind of foundation on which all this must be based, is the Polish family. [[Applause]] A family that's traditionally understood. A family that takes the form of a relationship... PiS-owska family. [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...women and men. And under no circumstances can it be assumed - as the Prime Minister said - that marginal phenomena are to constitute a standard. [[Applause]] This is, I repeat, the foundation. The foundation of all this construction. Construction, which is intended to serve success in the coming years and decades. But it is also intended to serve the continuity of the Polish nation and the Polish state. [[Applause]] And this continuity is for us - we do not hide it - something fundamentally important. We can find ourselves in this reshaping world only as a strong state, supported by the trust of a strong nation. As a country which is a tool for the nation to implement large enterprises, but also to abolish various kinds of threats. And we also found answers to these questions that relate to this statement. They can be - of course, briefly and in short - structured in this way. The state has many functions, but in general, it is a security organization, very widely understood security. Security in the field of international security, individual safety, social security and economic security, which in Poland is closely linked to the imperative of rapid development - this was mentioned by the EU's 2% 3% more GDP growth per year than in the euro area - but also another security, i.e. security, which is aimed at ensuring that the state itself is not a threat to citizens, to social groups, so that state pathologies cannot develop in this way... Banana. ...that the individual's position, the citizen's position, the group's position and, above all, democracy and the rule of law destroy. [[Applause]] Banana. And this certainly has been included in this speech as well. No, it wasn't about Banasi. Let's start with international security. The issue of alliances, the most fundamental in terms of security. An alliance with the United States. Second exposé now. This is the only country that can really guarantee some security today. And this security is now, regardless of events in other parts of the world, guaranteed more and more, even by increasing American forces in Poland - multiple, more than ten times, even this number 10 is too low, several times larger [[Applause]] - and by a number of other projects. But of course security is also strengthening the Polish Armed Forces, strengthening both through various purchases of modern weapons and through exercises that are taking place again in Poland, also those on a large scale, through, you can say, training the army, by expanding it. But security isn't just a military sphere. This is also to some extent, and not least, today it is a very serious issue, economic security and, in particular, energy security. You should have taken the premiere. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we are very close to ensuring that this security, for many years at risk, is ultimately ensured. [[Applause]] And that's also the government's line of action. Bravo! Security of the unit. The data indicates a high sense of security for Poles: in general and also in their place of residence. Hence paying special attention to this sphere... This area. ...where this sense of security is low, and the victims are really very many, because they are thousands killed every year. And the fact that this is what the Prime Minister put such an emphasis on is simply to draw a conclusion from the facts, because the most valuable thing is human life. But I'm gonna allow a little supplement here. If 98% Poles feel good in their place of residence, it must be remembered About 2% more 'Cause it's only a few hundred thousand people, but they also need that safety in their place of residence. [[Applause]] Bravo! And there is also a sphere of crime, which is not properly punished, that is not properly created a general prevention, a general prevention, which is being criticised by criminal theorists, but which is certainly a necessary element when it comes to building a situation that reduces risks and increases security precisely. And in this direction. We're gonna have to go too. Social security. It's a giant sphere. It's a giant health area. There were numbers, different programs. There is no doubt, we do not hide this, that there is still much to do in this sphere, that even the 106 or 107 billion PLN is not enough, but we will aim for 160 billion in a relatively short time. [[Applause]] And there's gonna be a lot to change around here. Different kinds of programs need to be expanded. What has been presented here is very much, but remember that in this area we will move further forward. Education - here it is really necessary to defy this dangerous, external, as someone has rightly described, hostile socialization. It's a good word, although it's formulated by people, politicians who may not like us, but we can draw from different sources. [[Applause]] Yes, this socialization must be opposed, very decisively and completely unambiguously. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, above all - in addition, of course, to other areas that could be mentioned here - also the family issue, the issue of family support, this support has been given, but also the issue of women, the issue of the situation of women in the family. We are in no way questioning and never questioning that such a problem exists, and it has been made very unambiguously here. Women's rights cannot be opposed to everything that forms the basis for the nation's sustainability, the consequences of the generation. But we must act in this direction, and we will act in this direction, so that these processes are not really opposite, [[Applause]] that women gain and equality of earnings, and opportunities that are in many cases, especially in the case of motherhood, very much, but very necessary, can be said: necessary. Bravo! And this is, ladies and gentlemen, a really fundamental issue for us, as well as a strong opposition to violence in the family, but it is impossible to combine extreme liberalism in criminal law and to strive against this violence at the same time. [[Applause]] Here you have to be tough, very hard, very ruthless, because only then can you really face the kind of threats that actually occur in Poland. And we're going in that direction with all our determination. Economic functions, this imperative of development. First of all, entrepreneurship and the big leap into modernity, and a huge number of different proposals already made and those proposed here, which together are to create a new, incomparably better situation for entrepreneurs and a new situation for young entrepreneurs. Finally, a new situation for all of them, and I am also talking about decisions already taken and implemented, who want to participate in this great technological race, who want to combine science and the economy, who have an innovative invention. This is decisive today and this has been very strongly underlined here in many points. It's actually very much, but it's very necessary. [[Applause]] But besides this, there are projects such as large infrastructure investments, in various other areas it is necessary to restructure to a possible and rational extent, and at the same time to open up, and this is not counterproductive, for foreign capital. We must strive for normality here. This, you can say, is the key word to the Prime Minister's speech and this normality should accompany us in everything. She should be with us. also when we are thinking about a different sphere of action of the state. It, you can say, does not fit into this classic division of functions of the state, because it is connected with this particular and generally very favorable situation of Poland and Europe, i.e. the existence of the European Union. But just because we are in the European Union does not mean that we are to pursue a policy of passiveness there or to pursue individual interests which for Poland... Exactly. ...they don't matter. The idea is that, in the Union - in both these ad hoc cases, today it is a budget, aid for agriculture and in general matters - to strive for the necessary variety, because the Union, and this is part of this great global destabilization, is in crisis today. This crisis can be covered by words, it can be illustrated in various ways from various economic data through a picture of the still-functioning President of the European Council. I'm not gonna specify that. You all know. Ha, ha, ha. But this is, ladies and gentlemen, in general, an image of the crisis, and the Union must come out of this crisis by taking real action... You're... The image of a fall. ...where they are needed, first of all going back to the foundations, going back to the treaties, mastering various kinds of usurpations, taking care of decency, fighting tax havens, fighting monopolies, fighting against the whole sphere, the great sphere of pathology that exists there today. [[Applause]] And this is our agenda in the European Union. This is the Polish agenda in the European Union - not bowing down to the belt, not agreeing to everything, just this... Pathology is what you make. ...in the interests of the Union, in the interests of Poland and in the interests of the future of Europe, of a united Europe, of a Europe that will be a global entity that will indeed be a global power. But only such a Europe, after repairing, can this global power be. This one today doesn't stand a chance. [[Applause]] Or what? This, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as possible, is what was presented in this speech. He's translating Moravian. The question is whether it's a program of one party, one formation, or if it's a program of one party... One chief. One president. The only one. ...it's a program for society as a whole, a nation as a whole. No, no, no. At this point, it may be worth referring to good examples, the example of Ireland. There for the development programme, which brought fantastic results - today Ireland is one of the two, the three richest countries in Europe, it is much richer than England, much richer than Germany - the political parties that used to shoot at each other, and even from the department, shot each other. Anything's possible. Anything is possible, but you need patriotism and good will, not particularism. [[Applause]] Bravo! [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] And I believe that the message of this speech, the speeches, I am convinced of this, the Prime Minister of the Republic... It's more like Neverland. ...in this starting term, that's exactly what it was. And regardless of these screams, I'm asking everyone in this room to seriously consider this offer. Thank you. [[Applause]] Some Members get up and chant: Jarosław! Jarosław! Jarosław!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u7	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Grzegorz Schetyn, the Civic Coalition. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not known which exposé to refer to: whether to this... It's the right one. ...the Morawiecki Prime Minister or President Kaczyński. But we've seen a presentation of the government in Nowogrodzka, so I understand that this government will look like this, controlled from Nowogrodzka, Prime Minister. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh! His nerves are weak. Second exposé. Apparently, it had to be improved, because it wasn't said as the president expected. I would like to refer to what Prime Minister Morawiecki said. President Kaczyński is the actual creator of this government. We saw it in Nowogrodzka. He was suffocated by a government spokesperson... It's already been done. ...the Prime Minister's personal instructions. Were you there? And what you're saying and what we just heard in the speech... Get to the point. Quiet. What's that? It's normal, isn't it? Can you do something, Marshal? Normality, normality. It was to be different, Marshal Witek, it was to be different. It's as usual, like it's been for four years. He's acting like he's always acting... I want to talk about the continuation because you talked a lot about it. Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke a lot about the fact that this government will be a government of continuance. I agree with that. He will continue yours. PiS's inability, violation of the laws and principles of democracy, [[Applause]] brutal propaganda and a lie. That's what we heard, and that's the announcement. We've seen this for the last four years, and I understand we're gonna see... Bravo. ...this rehearsal for the next four years, maybe less. It can't be as it is, as we've heard. We have seen government proposals, ministerial proposals: the same prime minister, the same ministers who are responsible for the collapse of road investments, the compromise in housing construction, the cost of shops, increases, the collapse of the shipbuilding industry. You're laughing at it. We've seen it all for four years. Statistics. Recently there are also new situations and new announcements, e.g. Extinguishing the furnace at the Sendzimir plant. Hitting the steel industry is the next sign of the quality of your actions. How can it be different if there is the same health minister who is responsible for the collapse of Polish health services and the fact that drugs are missing from pharmacies that save lives? How can it be otherwise, if there is the same Minister of National Defence who is responsible for chaos in the Polish army, for stopping, delaying purchases. It's a lie. He's in the same place. How could it be different if... Minister, calm down. It hurts, the truth hurts, Minister Błaszczak, it hurts. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] She was hurting at the Home Office and she's gonna hurt at the MON. It's gonna hurt for four years. [[Applause]] I told you not to lie. Quiet. Does it hurt? It hurts, it hurts. How can we talk about building an international position if we are witnessing what is happening in Polish foreign policy, the fall of Polish position in Europe and in the world? We all see it. Look who's talking. How is it that you are talking about European money, about the fact that you are opening up to the European Union, and it is already known today that we will have 20% of the EU budget less? You've already lost 100 billion zlotys, and you're gonna lose even more. You talk about normality and you want normality, and normality, Prime Minister, is the truth, honesty, rule of law and economy. [[Applause]] And you guys break it all every day. Ooh... Perhaps the best legacy and summary of these 4 years is the legacy with which you enter this next new term. It's about building politics on a lie. You began to share Poles, based on the lie of Smolensk. You continued this with Macierewicz's mouth for four years. But you, Prime Minister Morawiecki, are the first Prime Minister in the history of the Third Republic to be convicted twice for lying for lying. [[Applause]] It's the truth about your politics. Reliability. You've made a lie a basic policy tool. You're destroying people with false accusations. You deny your own guilt, even when there are witnesses, photos, documents. We've seen the D.A.'s actions, and there's really no action. Today you are presenting an innovative approach to electoral promises. For an hour and a half, 90 minutes you promised again. This is your idea for Poland, for Polish politics - promise new, forgetting what you said earlier. [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah. For four years, you promised. You promised your predecessor two years ago. Keeping promises. Six-pack. I'll insist on reminding you of what you're talking about. Why didn't you talk about it before? I'd like you to name... Why didn't you tell me in the exposé? A million electric cars. One prototype, a factory - Prime Minister, aren't you ashamed? Where's the six-pack? You were talking about it from that bleacher. You promised me electric cars. Where are they? In the garage. In the slides. Where's the ferry, where's the shipbuilding industry? There is a keel, a painting, a sign of your shame, and a lie. [[Applause]] This is the truth about your shipbuilding industry. You promised to extend the hospitals. 14 billion, maybe more. You don't want to share the data. Never have hospitals, health care, health care been as indebted as you were in your day. The Senate Marshal... 100,000. apartments. Ooh... Less than a thousand, more than 800 - that's the truth about living +... It's a success. ...about your flagship program you've been presenting here. You promised you'd make an apartment. There's nothing. There's a building called Banasia. And finally tax cuts and danin. You've been talking about this for four years. Over 30 raises in the last four years, and now you're announcing another one. Elimination of the limit of 30 times ZUS contributions, increase of excise duty. And that's what you're boasting about. This is your plan: we're raising taxes. You promise Poles. [[Applause]] What taxes? And you can't be denied your imagination, sometimes lush, like someone used to joke about it. After all, the Prime Minister speaks so well. It's okay that he's telling the truth. It's okay. That's how it has to be. That's who he is. It's better than having no imagination. Ha, ha, ha! You can't base politics on what you're saying, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] The story of uncreated things is an immanent feature of your policy. It can't be like this. We have to talk about specifics. The state is not a virtual entity. There are 38 million people living here. And to them you have to talk, to their business you have to fight, to defend them. Who did they choose? That's the last time they chose you. Definitely not liberals, come on. After all, we see this situation in hospitals, in SORs, in schools, in investments that are covered with bushes that you left behind, which you didn't take, in the ruins of expressways and highways. The hospitals are here because you didn't sell them. Why don't you talk about it? Poles are waiting for information about these matters. They just don't exist. You have nothing to say, so you continue to promise, you continue to spin the spiral of such political science fiction. This is ridiculous. I also want to talk about the integrity of the political proposal, and I am speaking to you personally and personally. You need to address those issues we discussed in the last term that were mentioned in the election campaign. You're the one who should care about clearing things up. It's a question of buying parcels and the circumstances that led to it. [[Applause]] Yes, sir! That's what you should care about, Prime Minister. You're the one who should tell me about the estate statement. You're the one who should care about exposing all of your assets, including the one you prescribed to your wife. [[Applause]] You promised. Reliability. After all, the Prime Minister must really be like Caesar's wife. It's in your interest, in the interests of the Republic of Poland. And you don't. Finally, the next question. It is you who must say whether you have received a warning note from the directors of the Ministry of Finance and the National Tax Administration against Marian Banas and the fuel mafia, which is in the Ministry of Finance and the National Tax Administration. [[Applause]] Why don't you talk about it? All of Poland is asking you that. Anything new? We'll be able to take these ideas seriously, but you have to answer these questions, these accusations that are being asked by the public. If you're silent, if you don't answer these questions, that doesn't mean those problems are gone. They are. You're not shutting this reality down with silence. They'll come back to you. They will return to the Prime Minister of the Polish Government. You have to answer them. [[Applause]] In this term of office, we will stand firm on the side of values. We will guard these most important things: the rule of law, democracy, and finally common sense. Keep an eye on your fellow Members. We've been doing this for four years. We're gonna call things by their first name very hard. We will show your mistakes, your omissions, your unfulfilled promises. We'll show you your politics. But there's a different situation than the last four years. The victory of the opposition in the Senate creates a new quality. [[Applause]] You must be aware of that. He creates two things that are critical and critical, the most important. The freezer in the Sejm Office will no longer function. You will not freeze the draft laws that the opposition will report. You're not gonna do this. [[Applause]] Nor will there be what you've always been doing, or nightly proceding in the Senate. The Senate won't be at your service. He won't be picking up an unverified project with errors in the evening, a project from the Sejm, to process it at night, correct it, and send it back to the Sejm. That's not gonna happen anymore. It'll be normal. [[Applause]] We'll see about that. But I would also like to say that this victory in the Senate, the victory of the opposition also for us, for the opposition party, for Members and Senators of the opposition, is a great challenge regarding the necessary, good cooperation, integration of efforts, mutual trust. Only then will we be able to show that the Senate is functioning normally. In opposition? It acts as a chamber of higher parliament, that there is a debate in it, a discussion that is normal in it, and I believe it. [[Applause]] It's not now. I told your Marshal Witek that I believe that this may be the case in the Seym, but it's up to you, it's up to the parliamentary majority. [[Applause]] Nothing from you. And finally I want to say, because you always talk about Christian values, that they are so close to you, you declare attachment to them. So I believe that you will take to heart what I want to tell you now so that your governments for Poland do not end in complete disaster. You must remember two commandments, the eighth one: do not bear false witness against your neighbor, and the seventh one: do not steal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Exactly. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u9	Now you have the floor of Adrian Zandberg, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u10	High Izbo! I listened carefully to Prime Minister Morawiecki's speech and heard a few nice words, a few beautiful words, and even a few right words, with which I agree, when the Prime Minister spoke about prosperity, about modernity. You spoke very beautifully, Prime Minister, and I would even believe that you would build a modern state of prosperity if it weren't for one little technical problem. You've been in charge, Prime Minister, for several years. First out of the back chair, then, when you got rid of Beata Szydło, as Prime Minister, and you can't cut yourself off from those governments, say you're starting over, so a little bit more than your promises today... Hand out of pocket. ...I'm interested in what you've been Prime Minister so far. And the balance of these governments, unfortunately, is slightly different from the one you read about. Today you've been telling me how to mantra the concept of a state of prosperity, so let's talk about what a state of prosperity is. In a country of prosperity are cheap apartments for rent available to everyone, in a country of prosperity are well-financed public hospitals, in a country of prosperity is really free health protection and really free education, in a country of prosperity everyone feels safe on the street, and is not the victim of beatings and insults by right-wing fanatics, as it happened quite recently, under your rule, in Bialystok. [[Applause]] It's a lie. Finally, Prime Minister, a modern state of well-being respects workers, respects trade unions and social dialogue. In a modern state of prosperity, Prime Minister, taxes actually, not just in words, are paid by large corporations, not just by employees and small businesses. Poland does not look like this, Prime Minister, after 4 years of your rule. Poland is not a state of prosperity after 4 years of your government. In practice, you pay pennies to the employees of the budget. Young teachers earn so much in Poland today that they cannot survive for it. You haven't raised your wages to private officials in years. People are fleeing the budget because under your rule, Prime Minister, the state is becoming the worst of employers. After four years, under your rule, trash is still flourishing and is still being violated on a massive scale by labour law. You had four years to change that. You've had four years to give more tools for labour inspection. It wasn't expensive, and yet you didn't decide, you didn't make it. You talk a lot about social dialogue today, but dialogue with workers is practically not working. You've treated trade unions very often, not as friends, but as enemies. It doesn't make any sense, and it's a shame, because you'd hear a lot from unionists about the problems of ordinary people, about the problems of millions of Poles, which unfortunately this government was deaf to. [[Applause]] Another topic - apartments. I'm sorry, Prime Minister, but your bragging sounds like a completely ridiculous joke here, because living with you is really a disgrace to your government. For four years, you've built 900 apartments. [[Joy in the Chamber]] For years, you've fooled people's eyes into thinking that you can build apartments without money from the state budget, that it's gonna do some magic trick that developers can do. The effect is that there are no apartments. You have not decided to appoint a public body responsible for building apartments for every pocket. You have told fairy tales, and the effect is that, of course, as you said, the development business in 2019 is great, but the prices for these apartments are astronomical, beyond the reach of most young Polish families. In 2019, Minister, Prime Minister, of course also Minister of Sport, almost half of young people nest in apartments with their parents because they can't afford to become independent. And this, in my opinion, is the best summary of your achievements when it comes to housing policy. It's a disaster. [[Applause]] And to add to the bad news, when the housing regulations + and housing regulations were adopted, you smuggled changes to them in the protection of tenants who hit the rights of tenants who facilitated evictions. What's more, you haven't kept your word on reprivatization. There was supposed to be a bill to stop this thing. There were assumptions to the bill, good assumptions. The tenants were counting on this project, and you just failed them, this bill doesn't exist. Why isn't she here, Prime Minister? We haven't heard a word about it. [[Applause]] You also spoke, Prime Minister, about health. We hear you're gonna paint the walls in the hospitals to make them nice. Cool, but who in these renovated hospitals, Prime Minister, is gonna treat us? Because this is the real problem of the Polish health system. Do you remember, Prime Minister, your own promises when you promised doctors residents that you would raise your expenses to this modest European minimum to 6%? They believed you then, reached out, interrupted the protest. And what did it turn out to be? Turns out you tricked them because you did it with a book trick - in which it's tricks, I admit, you're great - only that it's a cheat that really has very short legs. Because the strike has expired, it's true, but you know as well as I do that the queues to specialists are growing, that the education system of young doctors lies, that nurses are still dramatically lacking in Poland, that other hospital units are disappearing, and rescuers are leaving work. The state in this episode is just falling apart, and you're smiling on our faces here saying that everything is going well. Unfortunately, he's not coming. And just so we're clear, it's not just your fault, because health care has been falling apart for years. And for years it is so that the one who is rich lives in Poland several years longer than the one who is poor. Except under your rule, you didn't do anything about it. And the crisis is going to get worse because the medical staff who were educated for the Polish People's Republic are retiring. And it's killing this system, the system that was and is inefficient, also under your rule. [[Applause]] How did you treat the weaker? Here, too, you have said a few nice words with which I agree, but tonight, Prime Minister, we are to vote on a bill that will rob the fund for people with disabilities. Why? That's not true. Because you're trying to balance the budget. This is something you really don't have to do, but you have decided, Prime Minister, to suck up to the financial markets, and for this book trick, you're gonna make the disabled kids pay. This is, in my opinion, the vileness, and this is the reality of the PiS prosperity. [[Applause]] You will say, Prime Minister, that decent public services, increases for the budget cost it all - and that is true. Only for four years, instead of building a modern corporate tax system, you managed what Tusk left you. And the fact is that you chased a few VAT thieves, which made it possible to finance 500+, but in a very crucial case, you just chickened out about big corporations. The Polish budget continues to be maintained by employees and small Polish entrepreneurs, and large American or German companies still do not pay income tax in Poland. We have a huge hole in CIT, a huge hole in corporate tax. Specialists say there's a river of money leaking out of our economy, billions leaking out. Hand out of pocket. And this is the money, Mr. Prime Minister, that we need for the Polish hospitals that we need for the Polish schools. That's where they are, and you're afraid to reach for them. [[Applause]] In fact, harder times are coming, the economy will slow down. This is not a tragedy, because in the market economy the economic cycle is the norm, but in your speech I did not really hear a single word about how you want to prepare Poland for this slowdown. How do you plan to secure 500+ funds? What about benefits if they reflect unemployment? Where are you gonna get the money if you're still scared to collect taxes from big corporations? Are you going to drop this again, as it has been in Poland, on households, on ordinary employees? These are questions that Poles should know the answer to. And I think she would be more interesting than many of those lofty quotes and poetry we heard in your exposé today. To be honest, I'm a little surprised that you raised the issue of tax avoidance in your speech. After all, over the years, a call from the U.S. Embassy was more important to your government than Polish citizens' interests. Prime Minister! Where's the digital platform tax? You pulled out of this because Vice President Mike Pence told you to do it. [[Applause]] It was the same with Uber, it was the same with the list of medicines refunded, and it was the same with reprivatization, and that's a case, as I said before, just shameful. We now hear that you are planning to spend large billions of zlotys on F-35, means on planes whose value for the Polish army is questionable and questioned by many experts. We believe that other, more meaningful investments are needed for Polish security, which will not be necessary because you will spend this money on American aircraft. The Left thinks it's a mistake. The Left believes that we should fulfil our treaty obligations, but I want to be clear: we will not support your ideas to spend even more on arms. Some people in the PiS, as I've heard, dream of spending 3% or maybe 4% on it. GDP. We're saying stop. This money is needed for hospitals, schools, for the proper functioning of the Polish state. [[Applause]] Security, real security of Europe, and Poland is Europe, this is good cooperation with our neighbours from the North, with our neighbours from the West. And that is why forgive me, but your declarations of European policy are cheering up because you have been destroying this cooperation for several years. Where the Left sees friends in Europe, you show enemies. We want to build a common defence policy together with European forces, with European countries, and you have been arguing with our neighbours for years. A gender. And in my opinion, what you're doing is irresponsible. What's more, to please President Trump, by arguing Europe, you put our future at risk. And if anyone thinks President Donald Trump is the guarantor of anything, they'd better look at the fate of the Kurds. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! Finally, there's a case you can't keep quiet about. It threatens us all, whether from the Left, or from the PiS, or from the Platform, or from the PSL, a climate disaster. I have two children. I know you have children, too, and, frankly, I'm surprised that you're being irresponsible about this case, as if you weren't even thinking about their future. If we don't stop climate change, hundreds of millions of people will go north. It's going to be a migratory wave the world has never seen before. They're gonna run away from places where it's too hot to live. [[Applause]] You guys don't think about it at all. After all, we already have a taste of what awaits us. Every year there is an increasing drought, every year there is more and more expensive food, every year there are problems with water in subsequent Polish cities. And this is just the beginning. If we want our kids to live in a normal, safe world, we need to act, not just talk. We really need to invest large public resources in our economy so as not to destroy the environment. These new green innovative technologies will not be created alone, and budget money must be spent on this. I want to tell you that such investments and such decisions of the Left are ready to support. And after these announcements, Prime Minister, I expected some details from you. But unfortunately, as is often the case with you, there were no details. [[Applause]] Instead of specifics on the subject of the climate crisis, you're playing such cheap PR gestures. You're calling a facade climate minister who won't have any real powers and doesn't really change anything. Honestly, I don't envy Mr. Kurtyka because his job is to drive around the world, smile and convince him that he's cool, even though everyone knows what politics you're doing. And you have such a policy that you open up more mines that you're melting billions of zlotys into coal energy, that you're importing coal from Russia on a massive scale. This is an energy strategy that can be closed down in words: even more coal. Only this is extremely irresponsible because you are destroying the world in which our children will live. [[Applause]] Corruption, the arrogance of power and the violation of the rule of law have already been mentioned here, so I will not repeat them. All I can say is that in this case, the actions are held accountable and I want to assure you, Prime Minister, that when the time comes, the left hand will not tremble during these votes. [[Applause]] Also because in a modern state of prosperity, Prime Minister, the constitution is taken seriously, the entire Polish constitution. [[Applause]] I believe that Poland can be a democratic legal state that actually implements the principle of social justice, but I do not believe, Prime Minister, that this can be done under your rule. For this to happen, the democratic left will have to rule in Poland. We will not wait, of course, we will act now, right now, in this Seym, we will tell you: I am checking. You're from PiS saying you're pro-social, so we're gonna give you a chance to prove it. We'll start with health. In this term of office, the Left will present a law that will raise public health expenditure to a European level of 7.2% gross domestic product, [[Applause]] No bullshit, no cheating, no accounting tricks. This is the money it takes to really shorten the queues. This is the money that you have to give to Polish nurses, doctors to residents, paramedics, all those who fight for Polish patients. Second thing. We will propose a law that will allow us to take this bull by the horns for the first time in years and face inequalities in access to health care. We're going to propose a bill that will introduce prescription medications for 5 zlotys. [[Applause]] It's all accounted for. Everything is thought out, because it is, Prime Minister, a moral scandal that the poor live in Poland today a few years less than the rich. It's a moral scandal that an old lady in a pharmacy walks away from a window because she can't afford to buy the prescription she got from a doctor. This must stop because it is a disgrace to Poland. These are laws that fix the health situation that will go to the Sejm, and I expect you to speak of a modern state of prosperity that you will vote for them. Because if you, Marshal Witek, or Marshal Terlecki, put these pro-social proposals in the freezer, then you will bear witness to what your words about pro-socialism are worth. [[Applause]] We will also give you a chance, Prime Minister, to deal with the problems of Polish workers. Therefore, the Left will report a proposal to raise wages in the budget, [[Applause]] in accordance with a simple principle, a very simple principle: if you work for the state, you get at least PLN 3500 salary (Applause), because work for the state needs to be restored dignity and proper status. You have to make it work at school, at the office, at the hospital, that's the job the best choose. A teacher who teaches our kids can't think about whether she'll have anything to buy her shoes for in winter, Prime Minister, and that's how it is today. [[Applause]] A nurse who cares about the sick can't be overtired, she can't be on duty as a lonely ward sister. The clerk can't think about where to make enough money for his rent or until the first one. That is why we need to raise our wages in the budget and make such a proposal. [[Applause]] You spoke, Prime Minister, today about equality between men and women. You didn't just mention that this pay gap in Poland is equalizing the budget, because in the budget today practically everyone and everyone earn equally badly. In the private sector, however, inequalities are very large and you have done nothing about it over the last four years. The left has suggestions on how to solve this. We want to increase the competence of labour inspection and introduce a certificate of fair pay. We will put this project on the table, and since equality between men and women has become important to you, Prime Minister, I expect you to support it. [[Applause]] We will also do this in this term of office, which you did not have the courage to do, we will do the disposal of trash cans and for guaranteeing equal constitutional rights for all Polish workers. We want to give the State Labour Inspection a tool to eradicate the pathology of junk employment. And again, I will be curious to see whether the PiS will vote for or against these solutions that the Left will report. Finally, one last thing, but it's an important matter, minimum wages. Their Majesty, Prime Minister, must not depend on the will of your architect Jarosław Kaczyński. The minimum wage should increase not because the Prime Minister will kindly agree to it, but automatically, along with the economy. Therefore, the Left will propose a new mechanism, one that will permanently link the minimum wage with the average wage, a responsible mechanism that will make the wages really go up. All pay, because it's not just about the minimum wage. For knowledge, for sacrifice, for hard work, especially for work for the state, you have to pay decently. [[Applause]] I also listened to what you said about the economy, Prime Minister, and I felt like I had heard it before. Because those announcements about breaking up with neoliberalism, those quotes from your professor. Mazzucato about an active and entrepreneurial country - that was probably already in your previous speech. At the time, I didn't hide it, it aroused my sympathy. Only today, Prime Minister, when you say that, you are very unbelievable. Because there was supposed to be public investment, and there was no public investment. 'Cause the level of investment is pretty lousy at all. Because there were supposed to be high R &amp; D expenditures, and in practice it's miserable 1.2% The GDP you mentioned. Because of that million electric cars you've been talking about, there's not a single one. But today we have heard that modernity and ecology will rely on people to turn old golf into gas. That's what's left of your big plans, really. [[Applause]] Golf brought in. On the other hand, Prime Minister, after these years, you will continue to pay from public money for the construction of German and American assembly plants in Poland. Poland is still Europe's assembly plant and is still a mine A cheap labour force that you say doesn't exist today. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Where are you going? Don't run away, Prime Minister. I know it's bad information, but unfortunately, it's true. And profits, as usual, are taken by someone else, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister does not want to hear about it, but the Prime Minister from all over Poland has made a special economic zone. Look at you. A few years ago, Prime Minister, you said in your exposé that you wanted to end your dependent development, but what you're doing is unfortunately, it's still dependent development and tax exemption for large American corporations when the U.S. Embassy stomps its foot. For that, you're reaching for money, yes, I'd love to, but... Like today, you want to get the money of people with disabilities. I think that's cowardice. [[Applause]] The Left in this Seym will submit a project on the tax on digital giants, the same one that PiS withdrew from. Because there is really no reason for Polish small companies to pay taxes, and Google, Amazon or Facebook were treated as sacred cows. [[Applause]] One more thing about the economy. Yours, Prime Minister, your proposal to enter capital plans... He's gone. There isn't. Speak, speak, hear. Proposal to include capital plans in the Constitution. Here I had the impression that the Prime Minister had dropped his mask and showed up an old face, the face of Prime Minister Bankster. Because these capital plans, ladies and gentlemen, this is a system that consists in the fact that the poor actually add to the rich. This is another private sector leap to public money in the interest of banks. That's not true. You've got it all wrong. The social security experts, among others, write a great deal about this. Professor Leokadia Orzeziak. [[Applause]] I recommend to you who support this wrong solution, reading and I would like to say very clearly: The Left will never agree to include the privileges of the banking sector in the Polish Constitution. [[Applause]] The Prime Minister repeated the word "normal" several times, if not several dozens, in his speech, changing it by all cases. I do not know whether it is normal that Mr Macierewicz's colleague, Mr Macierewicz, dreams of a Catholic religious state. I don't know if there's a normal state where there's one president, one confession, and one ideology. [[Applause]] One. Ha, ha, ha! But I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that there is another Poland, that Poland is diverse. Smile. Poland in which also Catholics and Orthodox and Evangelicals and Jews and Muslims and atheists live. And contrary to what the Polish right often likes to say, each and every one of them is in Poland at home, because this is our common home. [[Applause]] Bravo! A few days ago, ladies and gentlemen of law and justice, I spoke to my friends from Hajnówka. They're Orthodox. They're scared to see the politicians of your group who worship the murderers of their grandparents. They told me words that I remembered - that when they hear politicians' statements such as the statements of politicians of Law and Justice, they feel that Poland does not want them. What? I want to say clearly and clearly: Poland is not the property of PiS, Poland is not the property of right-wing fanatics. [[Applause]] And this suffocating atmosphere that your governments unfortunately spread over the country is ending. The fact that only three women sit in Mr Morawiecki's government shows how this government treats the majority of society. I'm not surprised because it was visible what women's rights meant to your formation in 2016, when you tried to push through barbaric abortion law. We know that, in this term of office, your formation... Abortion is barbaric. ...will dance as the episcopate plays. I hear you're trying to stop abortion in the event of rape. I want to be clear: The Left will not allow it because the Left stands and will always stand on the side of women's rights. [[Applause]] We're not gonna key, we're not gonna take out the cards, we're just gonna make a bill that's gonna ease this inhuman law. [[Applause]] The women who weren't born, too? Left, ladies and gentlemen, wants freedom and wants Poland, which is a country of freedom. And that is why we really need a modern state of prosperity in Poland, because it is freedom from poverty, freedom from homelessness, freedom from fear and violence, but also freedom of choice. I think that Poles and Poles do not want any power to tell them how to live, who to love, who to start a family with. I don't think they want anyone to tell them what they have a right to believe. And I don't think they want, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, to have politicians play moral guardians. [[Applause]] They want to know that they have something to say about what our country looks like, how their workplace works, how the government works. They want to know that they can take risks, but they can also make mistakes because the state will not leave them to themselves in difficult moments of life. And after these years of reign of Prime Minister Morawiecki it is clear that you do not desire or respect this freedom. We're giving it to you. You've proven it too well in the last few years. The Left therefore wants to change, wants Poland, which is solidarity, but Poland, which is secular and free, because only in such Poland will we all feel safe, only in such Poland will we all be free and only such Poland will actually be a comfortable home for everyone. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the coalition club of the Left, Members and Members together, the Democratic Left and Spring Alliance will vote against the vote of confidence for Mr Morawiecki and his government. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u11	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Polish Prime Minister's exposé is not a joke, it is not a wish concert, it should be a serious matter - a serious discussion about Poland, a diagnosis and then a presentation of appropriate treatments, treatment to heal those areas of the country that need this support most. In his own style, the Prime Minister presented such a wish concert - all the best for everyone, without concrete answers, without the most difficult questions, without proposing solutions on issues that concern health and life security, concern energy security, concern economic security, job security. There may be good will in all of this, but there are no specifics, there are no precisely listed areas that need to be fixed quickly here and now in cooperation. Here we can agree, but can we believe it? For the past four years, we have heard an invitation to cooperate - an open door to the offices and the possibility of making a bill - only later it ended as always: a freezer or a shredder. There was a lot about normality today, about the state of prosperity, about everything you said in the campaign. But is it normal for a retired woman to leave the pharmacy with tears in her eyes because she can't buy all her meds? It's already been done. Is it normal for a country where the assistant president of your nomination earns more in a month than a nurse in a year? [[Applause]] Is it normal for a farmer to wait months or even years for his farm to be modernised and not even know what he has applied for? Is it normal to divide Poland and Poles into better and worse kind, patriots of these real and traitors? Is there a normal country in which the common denominator, which is named Poland, has been assumed somewhere by one political group? There is no consent to such treatment of the state, there is no consent to milking the state, there is no consent to such enmity on the state property, but also on our history, on our tradition, on our values. Poland is the common good of all citizens, all Poles. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lot about entrepreneurship. Besides, it is not the first time, because in his previous exposé in December 2017, the Prime Minister said: Our next goal is to strengthen Polish companies and entrepreneurs. Well, you've strengthened them. They had contributions to the ZUS, as you took over the power, in the amount of PLN 1100 per month, and from next year it will be almost PLN 1500, or PLN 400 per month more, PLN 4800 per year. That's how you appreciated them. That's how you put them. But it was not enough, so before the election you promised that for all Poles - this was said in the radio studio by Prime Minister Sasin - the price of electricity will be lower. After the election, it turned out to be different. There is pre-election truth and truth of PiS-owska, post-election truth. [[Applause]] We heard it today. Today we can hear that electricity charges for small and medium-sized enterprises will increase. You often like to brag about rankings. Well, that's the World Bank ranking that the Prime Minister called for today, Doing Business. When you took over, we were in 25th place in the world, now we're in 40th place. We have fallen by 15 positions, and we are ahead of Azerbaijan, Rwanda, Kazakhstan and Mauritius. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ha, ha, ha! That's not much to be proud of. So using different statistics, take into account all, not just the ones that fit you. A state of prosperity. A state of prosperity for entrepreneurs during the day, and under cover of night - reaching into the pocket. It's a quadruple. This morning about the country of prosperity, about entrepreneurship, about the appreciation of entrepreneurs, and at night - departure from thirty times and liquidation of the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, [[Applause]] de facto liquidation, because the transfer to a completely different purpose. Entrepreneurship is the basis for the economic functioning of the Polish state. Not the service of big corporations, but the support of small and medium-sized Polish enterprises, Polish craftsmen. We as a political representation of Polish craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, people of hard work, say - now a little in your style - hands away from Polish entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] Bravo! We will not allow such treatment, exploitation, and then rejection. They are the salt of this land, they are good things, thanks to which good social programs could be introduced, for which we also voted. In addition to the issue of entrepreneurs that you can't, as you can see, appreciate, but put further burdens on them, it is very important that health safety, health safety and life are at stake. This is perhaps the most important issue, and thank you for taking this subject up too, returning to the Left Sejm. We may differ, we may argue with the Left, but I will never say that you are worthless. [[Applause]] Bravo. Your voice is needed, too, and we respect it very much. Ha, ha, ha. Health is a shared responsibility. The foundation of the state and the fundamental task of the state respecting social sensitivity, but also those values which the Prime Minister so often referred to, is to ensure the availability of health care, to ensure a decent approach to the patient, to give the doctor, the nurse, the paramedic, the physiotherapist a chance to work under decent conditions. This isn't about the wall, this isn't about where he's gonna work. It is very important, but the most important thing is not to wait in queues to a specialist, so that it is not like in Barlink, Mrągów, Głubczyce or in Cieszyn, where there are closed pediatric units, or like in Zakopane and Kamień Pomorskie, where gynecological and obstetric wards are closed, or in Wodzisław Śląski, where there is closed surgery, or in Rzeszów, where only patients are received in sudden, life-threatening situations, and the planned procedures are postponed to the next year. Many SORs are threatened with liquidation. Hospital debt. And that is impudence, that is talking about a balanced budget, when hospitals in Poland are in debt for 14 billion PLN, [[Applause]] and many county hospitals are simply threatened - their functioning, their existence. And the basis for state security is the availability of health care in the place where you live, where you live, not 100 km away. That is why we need a rapid solution and cooperation between all political communities. We have signed, Prime Minister, a health pact - Mr Szumowski, on your behalf, Mrs Kidawa-Błońska, Mr Włodzimierz Czarzasty, on behalf of the Left. The four largest groups in this Sejm have signed a health pact. We demand and demand the immediate implementation of the Health Pact, [[Applause]] not to talk about billions paid by Polish workers and entrepreneurs, because 100 billion on the NFZ budget is not due to transfers and good decision of the government, only because Poles worked, paid contributions and paid taxes. Polish entrepreneurs and Polish workers finance Polish health care. Unfortunately, you haven't done anything in the last few years to make it work better. There is no National Institute of Oncology. There is no - he is only as a project, as a test activity, but there is no meticulous, holistic action. If you were credible, the excise duty you wanted to raise tonight would be for the fight against oncology. We will make such amendments. Will you support them? [[Applause]] Are you ready to repair the health care? How many specialties did the waiting time extend? For 43 specializations in 26 extended the queues, did not change in 13, and only four were shortened. This is the state of Polish health care and its availability. Doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and paramedics are missing. They're underfunded. They're tired. There's too much red tape, there's too much paperwork, you have to fill it out every day. This makes Polish health care difficult and does not give you a sense of security. Who brought it in? Social dialogue. There was a lot about it, too. Again, you say beautifully: freedom, democracy, justice, solidarity and social dialogue. You have to agree with everything, but is everything being realized? How did you treat the social partners? Not only trade unionists, but also entrepreneurs, workers and employers, all who are on the Social Dialogue Council? You said two years ago: the Social Dialogue Council will be the place where we will work together on the most important solutions. Please stand on this platform and show us what this solution you have worked out together, because you haven't even informed the social partners of 30 times. Most laws are introduced as parliamentary projects, not government projects. Parliamentary projects do not require mandatory consultation of the Social Dialogue Council. And even if the Marshal of the Sejm sent a bill for consultation, how were these unionists and employers supposed to gather within 12 hours and review your bill, which you adopted as a matter of urgency? What do unionists and employers say today, what do employers say? We are very disappointed to announce that the Social Dialogue Council does not meet the majority of its hopes. It just doesn't work, you didn't give her a chance to expand her wings. It didn't work in your day. Direct democracy. Please accept our declaration of support and cooperation in the area of road safety improvement, special consideration of pedestrian safety, but also openness to cooperation on this subject. You said that there would be direct democracy in this area, that there would be consultation. But why only in the area of road safety? When will the consultations be launched? When the real freedom you're talking about and the social control that you need, because both have to complement each other... As much freedom as you can and as much support as you need. And as much civil engagement as we can offer, as we can pass on. We will propose our package of civil laws, what Paweł Kukiz has been carrying for many, many years in his proposals concerning the referendum day, concerning judges of peace, the change of ordination, concerning really increased social control and changes in the system, which will lead to full democratisation of the Polish state. And that's what needs to be done. in dialogue. If there is no direct democracy, there will be yellow vests in Poland sooner or later. And no matter who's in charge. [[Applause]] My dear fellows, this is a very important topic of energy, that is access to cheap electricity, that this current is produced in the purest possible way, so that environmental protection is the cornerstone of the future of future generations. The earth is not only given to us to use it, to cultivate it, but it is also given to us, the environment is given to us to take care of it. You have to bet on renewable energy. But not like this. You did. You've blocked the windmill bill and the Prosumer bill. Unfortunately, these were the first decisions still in 2015 and 2016. We'll get back to that. We present the climate pact. These are actions related to the betting on renewable energy sources and the transition to the green side of power, the return of the ability to put windmills in Poland, on solar energy, on water energy, on the energy that is available. This is real energy security - independence from the East and the West, drawing from energy sources available daily in Poland, not dependence on anyone. You put it on coal, but you couldn't even do it because you put it mostly on Russian coal that poisons us and smokes us. And you're on Russian gas. [[Applause]] What did you do with the Polish mines? Employment 11% down, 25% down production, 16% Low efficiency. But the cost of coal production increased by 1/3. Even if you were betting on coal, you couldn't do it. We're making a climate pact. We'll do everything we can to get the next generation of our planet Earth... Hypocrite. ...our environment will pass in better condition than we found, undamaged. About agriculture. The Prime Minister got, your government, you yourselves got a lot of votes in the country, also from Polish farmers. And what did you do? You exploited, cheated, and rejected again. [[Applause]] 30 seconds, my dears, was about agriculture in this exposé. I know that there is nothing to boast about, because every year the budget is between 5 and 7 billion lower than the one we left you, no raised subsidies, ASF spilling all over the country, sold Polish land, and forest, and agriculture, 2.5 thousands. ha during your governments - these are data from the Ministry of Interior and Administration - agricultural and forestry land was sold to foreigners. The best picture of what a mess you've made in agriculture is the stable in Janów and Michałów. [[Applause]] Bravo! We demand an immediate equalization of the payments. We demand that we block the unfavourable free trade agreement with South America, the Mercosur agreement. We demand a higher budget than we do. We've done, which is 35 billion euros, and we've unlocked trade with the East. These are tasks immediately, because for the last four years you have slept through the crucial moments for Polish agriculture, for European agriculture. We didn't do anything for the village, and they chose us again. 2004 My dear fellows, by screaming, you are trying to drown out the lack of courage and your effectiveness not only in the area of agriculture, but also in the area of agriculture. [[Applause]] in the area of building a national community. Because for the finale, the most important thing: there will be no state security without a national community. She is the foundation that guarantees the security of the state. She's the foundation that can't be destroyed. Because alliances may not work, the army will never be strong enough as we would have. They expected, and we will never have so much money that guarantees full independence and full security. The only guarantee of the sustainability of the independent Polish state, the only guarantee of the sovereignty of the independent Polish state and the prosperity of Poles and Poles is the national community. All citizens aware of their rights and obligations, regardless of who they voted for, regardless of what views and views they have, have the right to feel at home in Poland (Applause), have the right to feel good. It's a guarantee. We will build a national community. We are simply saying: There is no today - and this must be repeated again from the good times of our history - there is no freedom without solidarity. Oh... But there is also no freedom without entrepreneurship, there is no freedom without respect, there is no freedom without economy and there is no freedom without self-government. You forgot about local governments, too. You talk about subsidiarity, subsidiarity, and you take away further competences. You don't give money to raise teachers and today local governments are in crisis. They need to be restored to real self-government. The raises were. We in the Polish Coalition, in PSL, in Kukiz15, in the European Union of Democrats deeply believe in the good future of our country. An independent state that treats every citizen with dignity. A state of prosperity, not spoken of in this pulpit, but true to each of our fellow countrymen. Write good laws. Poland is a great responsibility. Poland is our common cause. Poland requires us to make the most important decisions and these decisions will be taken here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll do everything we can to make sure they're as smart as possible, but your government doesn't guarantee that today. We can't support him, we can't vote for a vote of confidence in your government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u13	Now you have a voice for Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can see how it was necessary for the Confederation to enter the Sejm, since even PiS and PSL speak our language. Good. It is good that you take over rhetoric, but the rhetoric should also be followed by political and legislative practice. Ladies and gentlemen! In the best possible summary, because time is little, I'm going to talk about the most important things. What really is the future facing Poland today, what challenges Is Poland ahead of him? This challenge is such modernization and the development of our country, which will not repeat the mistakes of the West. The point is that Poland is strong, rich, proud, modern, and at the same time to reject all the bad practices that today lead to the West being a zone of economic, cultural and even biological death of nations that make up it. And three things in this context are most important. Case one, a matter of the idea of a state guiding society. This idea is repeated today by Prime Minister Morawiecki, the ideology of warm water in the tap. This is a functional entrance to Donald Tusk's shoes, even if there are a pair of national flags more and a little more of the God-born rhetoric. The truth is that, functionally today, the PiS is taking the place of the Civic Platform, because the Civic Platform is boxing on the left flank, tearing out this rainbow sickle and hammer that they are trying to attack us here. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that today the ideology of primitive materialistic consumerism has become a state ideology and this is going the way of the West. Problem two: the customary revolution. Lots of beautiful words, lots of lofty declarations. The truth is that the PiS government is yet another government of surrender against the moral revolution, against the rainbow, leftist revolution. Capitulation, because the minister of higher education, the deputy prime minister in this government is Jarosław Gowin, yes, this Jarosław Gowin, who wants to lay down himself in the defence of gender studies - and this is a disgrace, this is not a pro-family policy, this is not a defence of traditional values - because this government allows rainbow Fridays, because it is this government that has government television, which also has rainbow propaganda in series, in films, including everything that concerns tens of millions of Poles. The truth is, it's exactly going the way of the West. The truth is also that it is also when it comes to migration policy to go to the West. Last year the Polish state allowed the most visitors from outside the European Union from all countries of Europe - more than 600,000. Germany is in second place - 0.5 Million. In short, state ideology - materialistic, submissive, passive towards the leftist moral revolution. And thirdly, a radical change in the ethnic, cultural, religious character of our country. It's happening under your rule, and it wasn't at all. In fact, it was mentioned about concrete steps in these matters in the Prime Minister's exposé. More stuff. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the economy is concerned, another portion of the bureaucracy you are preparing. Thirty times as far as the ZUS contribution limit is concerned. This is ruining the already fatal pension system. What you are proposing is also - and today it has already sounded out of this speaker - total submission to global corporations that do not pay real taxes and today in Internet space, for example, censor public debate in Poland, are beginning to censor public debate in Poland. You will not oppose this for one simple reason: because instead of a multi-vector foreign policy in an increasingly multipolar world, you are proposing a unilateral dependence on the United States of America, and that is another problem. That's another problem, because you don't understand this reality. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the efficiency of the management of a country - which simply does not exist. Because if, on such key issues as energy and climate, competences are divided between your Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, Mr Wosia, Mr Kurtyka, and finally Mr Szymański, it means that this government is cut up as a party, political, and not to the challenges to which Poland aspires today. Unfortunately, this is the continuation of the fatal state, the fatal path that the Western states took a few decades ago. The Confederacy cannot support this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u15	Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Club of Law and Justice, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard in several statements today that it is a government of continuation. Yes, in many, many areas where there are positive things, it is a government of continuation. And it is good that this is a government of continuation, because Poles want positive, good things for our nation to continue. Security is such an area, especially internal security. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2014, when Law and Justice adopted a programme of action in Katowice, we already concluded in this programme at the very beginning that democracy overcomes the dilemma: security or freedom. A well-functioning democracy makes sure that security does not rule out freedom, does not rule out the whole sphere of civil liberties. It is only security that guarantees that the civil liberties that President Jarosław Kaczyński spoke about today, said Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, all those freedoms which Poles pride themselves on, are proud even in relation to what is happening in Europe, including Western Europe, can be implemented and respected. And, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, when Law and Justice won the elections, we were aware of the challenges we face. The Poles in their huge mass did not want the theoretical state, Poles in their huge mass rejected the cardboard, which was probably best described by the Minister of Interior of the Civic Platform and PSL, who in a comfortable situation, because in a private conversation, said that the Polish state exists theoretically, practically Polish state does not exist. Of course, there were a number of other, more vulgar words about the functioning of the Polish state. Today I know that the Civic Platform is hard to remember about those moments, but Poles had a huge regret about the Polish state, that it did not function when it should have accepted, ignored all the big scandals of times of the Civic Platform and PSL, but also Poles had a great feeling that the world was changing, that bombs were exploding in Western Europe, that there were terrorist attacks. And under these circumstances the first government was formed by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, then Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. What's the effect today? What is the situation today described by the Minister of the Interior of the Civic Platform? Well, today, ladies and gentlemen, 98% Poles state that the place where they live is safe, 89% our compatriots state that Poland is a safe country and 75% Poles are positive e.g. the action of the state police, the Polish police. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the best results since... These surveys show that Poles have evaluated this area best since 1989, since 1990. And who, if not our fellow countrymen, has the right to actually assess this situation? Ladies and gentlemen, have the recent years improved this situation, as it were, in abstraction of what the government or the Sejm were doing? No. It was hard work. Minister Mariusz Błaszczak is present, Minister Mariusz Kamiński is present, Minister Jarosław Zieliński. We have adopted a whole series of legislative amendments, anti-terrorist laws, the Anti-Terror Ops Act, a great programme of modernization of services, where more than 9 billion zlotys were directed to the service, fire department... Pegasus. ... Border Guard and State Security Service, Police. And this programme will continue in 2020 and will continue. The current government, the new government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, will be doing this policy, ladies and gentlemen, implementing it. There have already been such situations in history that the police and state services were strong, even provocative to the weak, and quite weak to those who actually threatened the security of the state. Please remember - here I want to address the politicians, for example, the Confederations we see on the marches of independence - what the marches of independence looked like in the times of the rule of the Civic Platform, when they always turned into a fight with the police. And this digging policeman, digging a man who's already lying on the ground, will go to symbols, will continue to symbolize the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL. He kicked women. And what are the marches of independence in later years: 2015, 2016 and 2017, 2018, 2019? These are peaceful manifestations of Polish patriots who can pass peacefully... ...in Wrocław. ...through Warsaw. Ladies and gentlemen, during the rule of law and justice, we had a climate summit in Katowice, a Middle East conference in Warsaw - a very difficult one, because in the Middle East there are conflicts - World Youth Days - hundreds of thousands of young people from all over the world, from all continents - finally NATO summit, but also sports championships of all rank. Ladies and gentlemen, what were sports events like in the days of the Civic Platform? It is easy for you today to forget how you ensured the safety of Poles. You already forget how you could surround thousands of fans in Warsaw, drive them over the Vistula and there, whether they are people with children or not, throw them all into a single bag. Action fork. And what all these great events of international rank, the European Championship in various disciplines, in the times of the rule of law and justice, we all know. And this will continue, because Poland today, in terms of mass events, is a safe country against the backdrop of the whole of Europe and the world. This is why we have different events of this type and will be held in 2020. For example, in 2020 we look forward to a great United Nations conference on rescue, search for precisely these services, because our services are highly rated. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to Polish services and their efficiency in action in the country, I must say that I am talking to police officers, firemen and they are very happy because they do not participate in such social conflicts in which they participated in the times of the government of PO-PSL and maybe in much earlier years. Remember: February... What did they participate in? ... 2015, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. Do you think those cops were happy because they were armed with smooth-bore weapons and shot at the miners? What is the situation in Silesia today? And today they stand under the Seym. All conflicts in Silesia, ladies and gentlemen, have been calmed down. Silesia works normally. You can make a deal. Yes, you can. A Pole can talk to a Pole. You don't have to shoot him. The wounded are to this day. Those were the times. Before the Seym... Exactly, it is worth remembering what the manifestations of the CODE, the Polish citizens, the Civic Platform - safely, one dumpster has not been knocked over, very safely. And the police without weapons, with short sleeves, in baseball caps looked at these manifestations, professionally protecting these manifestations, not brutally attacking, as it used to be. in the case of independence marches. Ladies and gentlemen! Those days won't come back. Yes, it will be a continuation, because every Pole, every social group, every political party has the right to manifest its views and it was in the times of the rule of law and justice in a professional way that was guaranteed. Hence today Poland is a safe country. Pay attention to the terrorist threat map. We are a safe country, but let us remember that the Government of Law and Justice has adopted the Anti-Terrorism Act, that we have adopted the Law on Modernization of Services, through which our services have been equipped very professionally. This will continue in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of new things - fire department: 2026 cars went to volunteer firefighters. Without precedent after 1989: voluntary firefighters received support in the order of PLN 1400 million. Never has such a great amount been sent to volunteers, because we know that security is also when it is rooted in Polish society. Volunteer firefighters are rooted in Polish society, fulfilling an extremely important educational and law and justice role, so it was the Law and Justice that directed such great help to volunteer firefighters. But also in those areas that are not directly related to safety, such as the equipment of the firehouse or the issue of uniforming, or the issues of fire orchestras, this is the first time that has happened. I would also like to say a word about the situation of the Border Guard. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also been aware that the Border Guard is a requirement that arises at a time when we, as Members, want to offer support to someone. This is why the buildings for the Border Guard, which is why in the north the new Border Guard headquarters, which the Civic Platform had previously destroyed, was located in the south of Poland, near the mountains. It's all been refurbished in the Border Guard. And that's how we avoided what happened in other countries, Western Europe, the fact that, as part of this escape from the countries fighting in the Middle East, there was someone else entering the territory of France or Germany, someone completely disrespectful... Then the bombs went off, the people of the countries I mentioned were shot. Here the Border Guard has been greatly strengthened and, attention, has been noticed in the international arena. Frontex, modern airports, border guards again at airports, agglomerations that are now returning to the largest cities. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the path we want to pursue. This is the area of work in the field of government that will continue. I very much hope that other countries of Western Europe will be particularly paying attention to Poland in this area, because it is from whom to take an example, because Poland is a country without such bloody attacks. This is not happening by accident, ladies and gentlemen. This is due to the extremely hard work of responsible people in the ministry, associated with created institutions and legal mechanisms. I look here again at my friend Mr Jarosław Zieliński, who is sitting in front of me... Confetti. ...because it had to be done through parliament first. Today, these institutions are functioning well and will continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] How do confetti cut...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u17	Thank you. Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition Club, will now speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I was expecting a serious candidate for the Prime Minister, and in the meantime I had the impression that the speaker of public television, who lives in a completely different reality, stood on this speaker. [[Applause]] Bravo! I had the impression that the PR had built you, Prime Minister, a virtual parallel world in which Poland is a country with the best health care, where there are no problems with the functioning of the administration, where investment is at European level. In fact, the Prime Minister seems to have mistaken the chambers or misplaced the worlds we live in. Dear Prime Minister, There is a very simple question: can you honestly tell us all what, even one investment - one that you could boast about - you have made over the last four years? [[Applause]] One, one. One. One. Prime Minister, one investment. Not that you put into use because the Civic Platform and PSL government left behind a number of start-up good investments, but one that you started and ended. You guys brag about it... After eight years. 4 years. I have the impression that this question, like most people, will remain unanswered. There's no such thing. Dear Prime Minister, you have said many times, changing by all cases, the word 'normal'. And it is really important to consider whether in a normal country symbols can grow into the things we have been dealing with over the last four years. Must the symbol of the investment be the famous keel that represents the state of the maritime economy in our country? [[Applause]] No! No! Is the symbol of the new elites that you are so meticulously trying to build, to be your colleague from the Ministry who just applauded... He clapped. ...your speech, Mr. Banas? Is that normal for you? [[Applause]] Is it supposed to be a symbol of the independence of the judge's authority that your party colleague, Mrs Pawłowicz, is sending to another section, that is to say, the Constitutional Tribunal? This is not the Prime Minister's jurisdiction. Is reform supposed to be a deformity of justice and a deformity of education? Is it supposed to be a symbol of public service to bring the president of the governing party certain items for rehabilitation by the hospital director... General. ...while patients die in the S.R.? That's mean of what he says. Is the foreign policy to be symbolized by the failure of the 27th to 1st government in which you were Deputy Prime Minister? Is it supposed to be a symbol of environmental protection to exclude tens of Polish cities from the Clean Air programme and eliminate renewable energy sources? [[Applause]] Bullshit. Shame. Finally, should the symbol of support for parenthood, protection of motherhood be thousands of decisions issued by the Social Insurance Institution, in which these decisions are ordered to Poles, mothers, the return of tens and even hundreds of thousands of leave benefits just because you patch the budget hole? Is this a normal country? [[Applause]] This is a disgrace. Is the economic power to be symbolized by the decline in the value of companies of the State Treasury, e.g. power companies, for 4 years in some cases by a dozen percent? This is the symbol of your economy? The family silver was stolen. Is coal imported from Donbass or Mozambique supposed to be a symbol of economic transformation? And finally, is the matter of two towers to be a symbol of equality before the law? When a person with such serious accusations is not even called before a prosecutor because your government colleague is the head of the prosecutor's office? [[Applause]] Is that what you're talking about? And finally, the most appalling thing. You're talking about protecting Polish children. You're trying to use such a very powerful socio-technical procedure. You're talking about defending Polish children while you're sending a man to the Constitutional Court... Yes, sir. ...procurator of martial law, who in an appalling way tried to justify paedophile behavior. Is that normal for you? [[Applause]] Scandal! Shame, shame! You, Prime Minister, are talking about a thousand zero-carbon schools you'll bet on. But I wanted to tell you that you've done a better show. You already have nearly 6,000. A zero-carbon school. 'Cause it's almost 6,000. The elimination of junior high is a symbol of how you can act. [[Applause]] I wanted to congratulate you. You wanted a zero-carbon school, you've got nearly $6,000. junior high. Your government refers to great values, but your government has become a symbol of the loss of dreams. Your government has become a symbol of the loss of dreams of tens of thousands of Polish children who, instead of having normal childhood and normal education, must sit late at school due to the double yearbook Only because you missed your dream mode, the PRL-bis, and you eliminated the Polish middle school without any rational argument, because that was your will. [[Applause]] And this destruction of dreams of tens of thousands of Polish children no one will forgive your government. Prime Minister! I refer to your exposé, although I had the impression that the exposé really took place a little later, that you switched roles with the President of your party, who had left the Parliament very quickly, showing how important this debate was to him. Now I would like to refer to some of the basic values that you spoke about. Where's Schetyna? If you change the word "freedom" through all cases, I am really worried about that freedom. If you want to tell Poles what the framework of this freedom is, and at the same time you have the symbols I told you about earlier, you can only be afraid of what you mean by it. Do you not really understand the fear of your own state by this notion of freedom, because the only thing that you are good at is putting one against the other, is in scaring the Poles, in showing that an ordinary citizen in a fight with the state has no chance at all? Would you be able to answer the questions of ordinary Poles in your exposé today? In this stream of words and close to a 90-minute monologue, did an ordinary citizen hear anything concrete? Will an ordinary citizen find out how a huge increase in energy prices will affect him from 1 January? Will an ordinary citizen find out how expensive he will be in relation to your terrible economic and tax policy? Let the opposition speak. Will an ordinary citizen learn how much more tax you will raise instead of cutting costs in administration and spending billions of dollars on propaganda and rewards for your own? Dear Prime Minister, The Lord speaks of honesty, credibility, respect, but these values are absolutely alien to you. You could have built credibility for four years. A million electric cars, 100,000. These are the symbols of your unbelievableness; these are the lies you fed, fed, and fed to the Poles. You say that you want to rebuild the European Union, and you trample almost every day on the basic values on which the European Communities were built, and today's judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union only confirms that. You have suffered an absolute defeat in the field of foreign policy and only thanks to the resourcefulness of Poles and Poles, thanks to the fact that they responded to the appeal and went to the United States more often, you are able to tell about the great success, which is supposedly the abolition of visas for Poles. I agree, but this is the success of Poles and Poles, not your government or the President of the Republic. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! We say, "I'm checking." Prime Minister, at this session of the Sejm, we will present concrete resolutions and laws that will show where your government really is. Firstly, we tabled a draft resolution on the state of the climate crisis. You talk so much about climate, so it's gonna be the first test. Second, we're filing a bill... Polish draft budget. ...on footsteps first. It was your government that was blocking. For many years, the good solutions that the Prime Minister is talking about today, as if they suddenly appeared in your head, and they have not been in this Seym for four years. Finally, we submit a project on the dignity of every person who will show whether you are able to rise above ideological divisions and treat Polish families equally. It's an in vitro funding project. This is a test of your credibility. [[Applause]] Finally, Prime Minister, I would like to say that I was counting on you to present your state report. I was hoping you'd apologize to the Poles for what you failed to do. Unfortunately, you slipped through all important topics for Poles, using manipulated statistics or generals, which I don't think anyone but you and Mr. PR understands and believes in. I regret that you did not apologize to the Poles for increasing poverty. 25% is the increase in poverty between 2017 and 2018. This is the failure of your social policy. [[Applause]] Finally, I was expecting one last thing, Prime Minister. In the election campaign, you talked so much about minimum wage. Has anyone here in this room heard any assurance regarding the fulfilment of the promises you have made in this matter? No. I feel that you still cannot do a very simple thing: apologize to the Poles for what you said about how Poles should work for a famous bowl of rice. That's what showed you your real face. Maybe the Poles won't work for free. That is why the Civic Coalition Club will not vote for a vote of confidence in your government. For obvious reasons, we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u19	Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Honourable Gentlemen of the Supreme Offices of the State! High Izbo! The Confederation didn't applaud, even though so many beautiful words came out today. Even though she wanted to. The Prime Minister referred to the ghosts of great poets, beautiful Poles: Norwid, Trzebiński. I remembered our other little news. It reminds me of Gałczyński. Remember? Who is this snowball from the heavens? Of course, Mr. Voivodeship. And then it goes on. It goes at the end: Hey, there's a minister in Warsaw. Grey and so nice, Through the window throws a sharp look, 'Cause I want them to be for you. in the winter of solls, snows and ice cream: all winter comforts. If you hear the sled then and their mysterious bells, Know: he's a minister in concentration of silence. He pressed a button like that, ♪ The stars are ringing ♪ ♪ And the stars are shining ♪ above the city and over the village. That was the speech, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Konstanty Ildefons Gałczyński's poem from the 1930s, how prophetic. Your friends... You are, indeed, a group of reconstructors of historical sanation. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That's a compliment. That's a compliment to you. Above your desk, Minister, hangs a natural size, if I remember correctly, Kostka Potocki from hell, a great master of great Masonry in Poland. Ha, ha, ha! These are the best patterns for you. We say no to them, we condemn them. Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of things, I'm just gonna say one sentence. They were talking about defending the lives of people who wiped out the issue of the safety of human life. They talked about national security of people who see its guarantees in bringing foreign troops into the territory of the Republic of Poland. This is treason, but the High House has become accustomed to the false doctrine of national security so much that no one reacts. You're reacting. As regards the Minister of Finance, who is no longer present - this is an insult to the High House, proposing to her that she support the candidacy - with all due respect for the absent and the Polish public opinion of the anonymous minister - of a colleague of the honourable Prime Minister. Oh, there's the minister. He's leaning forward. It's not that one. It's just like him. With all due respect, we're talking about Minister Kościński, whose biography begins around 50 years old. To propose such a minister is an insult to the High House. Ha, ha, ha! Let's reach for the roots. I hope they'll use questions that I wasn't supposed to ask today. Another representative of our club will speak in a few minutes. I'm not gonna say names. See you in your current questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u21	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u22	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Prime Minister! Today's exposé is an extremely important moment for Poles, who decided on 13 October that once again governments in the country will rule law and justice on the basis of their own majority. I recall the words of one of the opposition leaders spoken in November 2015 after the exposé Prime Minister Beata Szydło, quote: You will not make it. You will not be able to help Polish families by giving away money for which you are not covered. You can't build a strong Poland. End of quote. But you didn't. The envoy who said those words is not in the Seym today. A handful of fellow Members were from his group. And the Law and Justice? We got a solid mandate to rule for our next term of office, because we did it. The Poles trusted us because they saw that our trademarks were credibility and effectiveness. We managed to help Polish families and we managed to build strong Poland. We consistently implement a good change, which we started after winning the 2015 elections. We have put in place solutions of a systemic, long-term and lasting nature for families, seniors, but also for young people who are entering adult life. We can safely say that four years of the rule of law and justice are four years plus for Poland. The government's plan of action presented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki guarantees the continuation of the programmes for which we have concluded a social agreement with Poles. The government's social policy puts the family at the centre of its attention. It is with satisfaction to assume that the Prime Minister, in his speech, strongly stressed the need to continue supporting the family in raising children. Thank you for the firm declaration that the pro-family and pro-social nature of the reforms carried out in the previous term will also be a priority in the current term. Pillar of pro-family state policy, i.e. The 500+ family programme, implemented and extended to include the first children without having to meet the income criterion, significantly improved the material situation of families. This flagship government agenda should be defined as a dignity programme. Guaranteeing the continuation of the programme in its unchanged form is extremely important from the perspective of its beneficiaries, families with children. It is important because of the country's demographic policy. What is also important is that it crosses the temptations and speculations of the opposition, which would gladly mess with it if it could, limiting it or eliminating it. It is also important to decide to strengthen the "Maluch+" programme, thanks to which the number of places in daycares is increasing dynamically. This increases parents' access to safe childcare. The number of places in nursery and children's clubs today is more than twice as high as in 2015. However, there is still a need for new care facilities and facilities. Further implementation of the "Good start" programme is PLN 300 for each student at the beginning of the school year and related expenses. From the beginning, this programme has been of great interest to families, and nearly 4.5 million students have benefited from real support. It is important and valuable to continue the "Mama 4+" programme, which has been bowing down to those who have dedicated themselves to raising their children and have resigned from their work, so far having no right to benefits and have often lived on the poverty line. The programme is one of the elements of support for families of many children. Attention should also be paid to the planned increase in wages. In the previous term, the government systematically and significantly increased the minimum wage. It's a good thing we're done with the myth of cheap labor. Poles have the right to work on decent terms and receive a decent salary. It is also expected that women and men's wages will be balanced in line with the principle: the same pay for the same work. Seniors are an important social group. Today, 9 million people in Poland are over 60 years old. This figure is expected to increase to around 14 million by 2050. Older people will be 40% the general public. It is good that we live longer and enjoy good health and fitness. However, this situation poses many challenges for society and for the government. The senior programmes introduced by the government respond to the challenges posed by demographic processes in Poland. The task is not only to improve the living conditions of people in the silver age, but also to exploit their potential and life experience for the benefit of all. The main objectives are to improve the quality of life of seniors, to enable them to be as independent as possible, to provide security and to create conditions for activity as widely as possible. The government has taken a number of measures in the past term. The lowest pensions and pensions have been raised. Minimum pension today is 1100 PLN gross. Let us remind you that in 2015 it was 880 PLN. The lowest benefits for pensioners and pensioners have increased by 1/4 over the last four years. Quota-percent valorisation has proved to be a good and fair solution. It is hoped that policies aimed at improving the situation of the poorest groups will allow senior citizens to be more financially independent. Respect for the eldest, the gesture of social solidarity, was the introduction of the "Emerity+" programme. The programme supported 84% Poles. Senior citizens welcome the inclusion of the thirteenth pension as a permanent element of financial support. It is good that this solution will be implemented in the following years in the form of the thirteenth as well as the fourteenth pension. The follow-up to the 75-plus programme will help to ensure a decent, independent life for the elderly, both alone and with families. The Prime Minister drew attention to the need to appoint new houses and senior clubs in cooperation with local governments. This is a chance especially for the inhabitants of smaller towns, where the offer of activation classes is not as rich as in larger cities. The Senior+ programme contributes to increasing the number of places in day-to-day homes and clubs. In 2015 there were only 100 such facilities in Poland, and in them there were just over 2700 places. Today it's 741 houses and clubs and over 18,000. senior seats. However, they still need new ones because seniors want to be active and feel needed. They want to stay up-to-date, get active, and meet other people. Thanks to the program of free medicines, about 3 million senior citizens received 167 million packs of medicines. At the moment, it's over 2,000. medicines used to treat the elderly. It is a total of nearly 1800 million PLN saved by people after 75 years of age. This is real support. Particular attention should be paid to the concern of the state and society for persons with disabilities. For four years, we have put in place a wide system of support for them and their families. This system, as the Prime Minister has assured us, will continue to be implemented. Let us remind you that in 2018 we allocated PLN 19.5 billion to support people with disabilities. This is PLN 4 billion more than in 2015. Social pension increased to PLN 1100 in 2015, amounted to PLN 739 in 2015. System support was given to people unable to exist on their own. In view of them, we have introduced a supplemental benefit of 500+. This is additional financial support, which will reach around 800,000. persons. In order to ensure access to public space and services for people with disabilities and seniors, an Accessibility+ programme has been set up to remove architectural, communication barriers in public places, so that they can access offices, health institutions, schools and universities or cultural facilities, because we believe that everyone has the right to live independently and actively. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister in his exposé devoted a great deal of space to social policy on family and children, young people, seniors and people with disabilities. Plans for the continuation of existing programmes and systems in social policy in the areas of family, work, support and activation of seniors and integration, including intergenerational integration, should be welcomed. The important thing is that the Prime Minister, creating an action plan for the next four years, sees the Polish society as a whole, a generational cross-section, from the youngest to the oldest generation, addressing each of them with concrete solutions. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! With great hope we accept the government's action plan on the social situation of all Poles. It is a plan based on the continuation of systemic and permanent solutions, a programme to continue fulfilling the promises made and social agreements, built on the pillars of freedom, dignity and credibility. It particularly welcomes the strong emphasis on further support for Polish families, including the protection of children, and the appeal in family policy to strengthen the institutions of marriage and the values deeply rooted in our culture: dignity, community, love and responsibility for the common good. The government programme presented by your Prime Minister deserves support and support in implementing not only by Members of the Law and Justice, the United Right, but also by all Members, through the entire Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u23	I would now like to ask the floor of Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We would also like to say, Prime Minister! But the Prime Minister won't even listen to the speeches relating to the exposé. It's very arrogant. And listening to his speech, you'd think we had a premiere of a visionary and a dreamer, and we know perfectly well that we have a cynic. Because social policy isn't just the effective names of programs, ladies and gentlemen ministers, it's not just beautiful words and many slogans. It is a comprehensive and strategic thinking about the future of the state and the smart financing of social policy, and this government is simply lying and screaming. Instead of preventing inequality, you generate some and deepen the existing ones. Instead of taking care of the stable development of the state, you only care about the development of your colleagues in the Treasury companies. Instead of building apartments, you only build housing programs. Instead of developing health care, you're shutting down hospitals. And instead of fighting violence against women, you're fighting your invented gender monster. The Prime Minister was talking about programming. Instead of teaching programming... You can't do everything. ...teaching your kids into the classroom in a crowded hallway in a crowded school. Well arranged for now. The PiS governments have come to a time of great economic prosperity and resources that have flown from the European Union. It's just the facts. It just happened. And how did this economic situation translate into an improvement in the economic situation of men and women? Let's see. There are seven women's names on the list of 100 wealthiest Poles and Poles plus nine women's names added together with their husband or family. As far as employees are concerned, the difference in average pay for men and women is 18% to the detriment of women, which means that the average Polish, ladies and gentlemen, earns about 700 PLN less than the average man. What about Europe? Even worse is the situation among pensioners, most of whom suffer from poverty and exclusion. 70% The poorest pensioners are women. You talk so much about women's work, and you don't even want to work with women yourself. In addition, there is full disregard for wage demands in feminized professions, namely the education sector, teachers, kindergarteners, health care, nurses, midwives. Okay, we're poor under the PiS, but maybe we're safe? No, it's not. On 4 January 2018, the Prime Minister submitted a draft law tightening the penalty for perpetrators of violence, including rapists. So? Nothing. The government is obliged to implement the Istanbul Convention, which introduces mechanisms to help victims of domestic violence. So? Nothing. We must withdraw from this convention. They're talking about equality in the workplace. And let's look at the government again. And 188,000. For the Rydzyk Foundation it was absolutely found. It was a priority. As a result of family killings, beatings with fatal outcome and suicides caused by domestic violence, 400 women are killed in Poland. The Prime Minister was talking about the bastion. And I wish the house wasn't a bastion, the family wasn't a bastion, it was a place where each of us feels safe. We're not rich, we're not safe, so maybe we're healthy. There goes the fiasco again. A Disaster in Health Care It's not just queues or expensive and inaccessible drugs. It's a lack of gynecological offices. 78% rural communities in Podlasie do not have access to a gynecologist's doctor. Sometimes you drive 50 km, and the offices are open for 10 and 13 hours a week. Every other Pole suffering from cervical cancer dies. Mortality in us is higher than in the countries of the European Union by as much as 70%. The Polish people want to be mothers, they want to have healthy babies. And what did the PiS government do? And he eliminated the in vitro funding, replacing it with an untested, ineffective method, but very expensive. That's not true. Women's discrimination in the area of health protection has an even darker card. It's a fundamentalist restriction on access to sexual education and it's an attack on reproductive rights, including access to prenatal research and safe legal abortion. What's going on in Polish? We inform you, Prime Minister and Ministers, that women in Poland will not allow us to take the right to safety, to health. Today I thank the girls who fought for women's rights in 2016. Women account for more than half of the population. It is high time to see us in rights, in politics and in the economy, to ensure equality, for a safe home, not for a bastion with a torture chamber. Nothing about us without us. Ha, ha, ha! We'll live to see the day because today we have the president a man, a prime minister a man... Family... God, no. Mrs... ...that a woman will be president because it's 2019, although as much as you don't like it in the PiS, we see it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u25	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Two years ago, at your first exhibition here in the Seym, you were talking about fighting violence, violence against women. You promised it then, and tell me how you can believe it if nothing happened about it. Let me remind you that there is such a thing as the Justice Fund with the Minister of Justice of Mr. Ziobra. A fund that should help victims of crime. What's going on? What's the money going for? Millions go to the organization without any experience, created quickly by Solidarna Polska. The Supreme Audit Office has shown that a lot of money for violence goes to the so-called. Pegasus program that's supposed to keep people under surveillance. Why should we believe the words you're saying today? You said a word once given, it's a sacred word for us. Prime Minister, you're not here, but unfortunately you're lying, so how are we supposed to believe you? [[Applause]] Finally.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u27	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation. Shot. It's a short ride.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the absence of time, I will talk about what I did not hear in the Prime Minister's speech. And I didn't hear anything about a million electric cars. I didn't hear any nonsense about building the Central Communication Port either. I hope that the fate of Berlin's port of Brandenburg, a terrible fate, will instruct the Prime Minister that such foolishness should be done. It shouldn't be. Secondly, the Prime Minister said that tax havens must be fought. I have a much better idea. To make Poland a tax paradise, then everyone will flee to Poland instead of fleeing from Poland to the Bahamas. The Confederation will vote against the exposé. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u29	Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It has been my privilege to give the Prime Minister's speech on Polish foreign policy, in particular the last 4 years, as well as the challenges of the future, after the exposé. The recent years have undoubtedly been an extremely dynamic, turbulent time in the international arena in terms of foreign policy issues. There have been many new threats in both the European Union, Europe and the world, and of course many opportunities. In front of our eyes, international order is broken in many places, which involves conflicts, including armed conflicts, terrorist attacks. We see that in many places in the world and in Europe, also beyond our eastern border, there are dangers. We are also witnessing the great migration of the population that has not been in recent decades. This is why there are many challenges in terms of international security, but also challenges in terms of international policy. With this greater satisfaction it is important to stress that the Polish foreign policy led by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in close cooperation with President Andrzej Duda faces many modern threats, but it is also an expression, as the Prime Minister stressed, of responsibility for the entire region in which the Republic lies. Without a doubt, which is an important element, this policy is autonomous. Decisions are taken in Warsaw. Foreign policy priorities result from the calculation of the interests of the Republic of Poland and its geopolitical position. In such a short speech, it is difficult to mention all the activities of Polish diplomacy, but most I would like to draw attention to security issues. First of all, it's about safety. In the last 4 years, we have been able to significantly strengthen our cooperation with the North Atlantic Pact, as well as significantly strengthen the eastern NATO flank. This was confirmed by the last NATO summit in Warsaw and the increase in NATO and US troops in Poland. Today almost 6600 NATO soldiers reside in the territory of the Republic of Poland, which increases the security not only of Poland, but also of the entire region. The presence of allies in neighbouring countries and, above all, the presence of four battalion groups of NATO troops on the eastern flank of the Alliance, i.e. in the territory of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, is a clear message, a signal that the attack on one of the NATO members is an attack on all States of the Alliance. Thus, decisions taken at the NATO summit in Warsaw are undoubtedly a significant success of our international policy. In parallel to cooperation with NATO, we have stepped up bilateral cooperation with the United States on both security and economic, military, energy and political issues. The tangible effect of this cooperation is to increase the presence, number of American troops in Poland to 5,500 soldiers and to modernise, modernize the Polish Armed Forces in cooperation with the USA. This also means purchasing state-of-the-art weapons and compatibility with NATO and US forces. Poland is as safe as ever in its history today. And that is also the tangible merit of the rule of law and justice. The importance of the symbol of very good Polish-American relations is increased by the decision, the consequences of which Poles felt on 11 November, the abolition of tourist visas for Poles travelling to the United States. This historic decision could only be achieved thanks to the great determination of President Andrzej Duda and his excellent relations with President Donald Trump, but also thanks to the great involvement of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Cooperation with European partners is also ongoing. We are working for a strong, democratic and efficient European Union based on the Treaty principles of subsidiarity and solidarity conducive to the sustainable development of all Member States, without dividing into better, worse, faster and slower. We are working effectively to ensure that there is no division of the countries resulting from Europe's first and second speeds in the European Union. This objective is served by our cooperation in the region, in particular cooperation with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Our priority is to create a level playing field in the European Union for both companies, entrepreneurs, farmers, agricultural producers and ordinary citizens. Our aim is to fight all barriers created by EU bureaucracy, and these barriers are unfortunately a lot. In particular, the Prime Minister's declaration on the fight for equal rights for Polish transport companies and the competitiveness of Polish transport companies, which are trying to rumble from Western Europe's markets, but also to increase subsidies for farmers, must be welcomed, because we have been fighting for these subsidies as a country since the beginning of our presence in the European Union. We have also been actively involved in regional cooperation, engaging in a number of initiatives to develop security, stability and the development of the countries nearest to us. This is not only a lively economic, political, regional cooperation with our neighbours from Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia within the Visegrad Group, which has become an important group and an important player on the European chessboard, but also a Tri-marine project supported by the USA, Germany and the European Commission, which has moved from the conceptual phase to a measurable phase of action to improve road, rail, energy infrastructure and modern information technologies. Speaking of cooperation in a group of countries in Central and Eastern Europe, it is important to stress that it was in the previous term of the Sejm that projects such as the Via Carpatia project were launched to integrate and connect the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, the Via Baltica project, which will connect Poland with the Baltic countries, or finally ambitious railway projects such as the creation of the Amber Railway Corridor, the aim of which is to provide rail transport with countries located in the south of Central and Eastern Europe, from the Baltic to the Adriatic. These are undoubtedly large and ambitious infrastructure projects aimed at projecting our political and economic influences in Central and Eastern Europe. An important element of this policy is the construction of the Central Communication Port or finally the excavation of the Vistula mine. This is undoubtedly an ambitious policy of the Government of Law and Justice implemented over the last 4 years, the effects and effects of which are obviously far-reaching, but undoubtedly the aim of these great initiatives is not only the impact of our country on our region, but also the building of our position in Europe and in the world. Poland's involvement in a number of European projects and initiatives also deserves attention. There is no doubt that the Eastern Partnership activities and the Berlin Process need to be mentioned, which gives Poland the opportunity to cooperate with the countries that are members of these initiatives. It is also our significant impact on security and economic policy and on improving security in the countries with which we have cooperated. We are also working effectively for development by promoting and supporting regulation that enhances the European Union's global competitiveness and contributes to the better functioning of the single market by combating unfair commercial practices, improving data regulation and eliminating roaming charges. We constantly increase our energy security and diversification of energy supply sources, including: through the construction of large projects, the extension of Baltic Pipe and the extension of the Świnoujście terminal. For the first time in its history, Poland has decided to diversify its energy sources and has implemented very ambitious goals which aim to make Poland, the Republic of Poland independent of Russian gas. We are also working effectively to open up new trading and investment markets in non-European countries. Here, for example, important, important economic and political visits by President Andrzej Duda to Vietnam, Australia, New Zealand, China or the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Singapore, Indonesia can be mentioned. Today Poland is not only an active player in the European arena, but it also initiates contacts with distant countries in Asia, Africa or South America. We are undoubtedly a committed and responsible partner in the international arena. We participate actively in international military and advisory missions and training under the auspices of various organisations - NATO, European Union, OSCE, UN - and in various regions of the world such as Moldova, Ukraine, Georgia, Mediterranean Sea, Balkans, Iraq, Afghanistan, Central African Republic and recently Lebanon. We are actively involved in the work of the UN, including the Security Council in the years 2018-2019. After a 20-year break, we returned to the UN Security Council, where we promote respect for international law and seek European and global security. We work actively in the area of climate policy. The COP24 climate summit in Katowice, during which the so-called climate summit was adopted, was a great success. the Katowice package. We actively sponsor and maintain links with Polish and Polish people abroad, promoting the teaching of Polish language - we use more than 200,000 today. students in more than 3.5 thousand. centers - and support the communication of Poles with the matrix. We continue to provide development and humanitarian aid in 2018, amounting to PLN 2.8 billion, supporting the countries of the Eastern Partnership, Africa or the Middle East. It is our policy that helps those in need of help in their countries by building schools and supporting hospitals. We do not serve the policy proposed by the Civic Platform in the previous term, bringing a number of refugees to Poland and planning such initiatives. We also modernize foreign service to work even more professionally and effectively and to take care of the Polish state right in the most remote corners of the world. One effect is the expansion of the diplomatic network. Only in the last 4 years were the embassies of the Republic of Poland in Dakar, Panama City, Dar es Salaam, Baghdad, Manila, Valletta, Consulate General in Chengdu, Houston, Belfast, and the Polish Institute was established in Tbilisi. I remember, in the previous term of the Sejm, under the rule of the Civic Platform, the consulates and embassies were liquidated. In our rule, these consulates are being formed. We constantly expand the network of foreign trading offices of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency. We have also established new institutions on which we count expertise, such as the Central European Institute in Lublin and the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. In conclusion, I would like to stress - which is extremely important for me, but also for millions of Poles, Polish citizens - that we are effectively fighting for historical truth. We take care of the good name of Poland and the image of Poland abroad. And reparations. At the same time, it must be stressed that the matter of settlement after World War II between Poland and Germany was not legally and politically settled... There you go. ...and the immensity of harm, human and material losses, the consequences and consequences of which are still felt by the Polish nation and the Polish state... They still haven't been made up to this day. Also Polish citizens who were injured during war activities have never been able to make effective claims. It should be stressed that this issue is also a major challenge for our foreign policy. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u31	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition. Finally, the truth will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I'll tell you what Prime Minister Morawiecki didn't say in his exposé, but he should. You haven't said a word about the three laws from which you start a new term of the Sejm, and this is your real program and the real face of the PiS - a jump on the Poles' money. 40 new or higher danins from the previous term were not enough. [[Applause]] You need to start with your timetable, like you said. You just didn't say again that for warm-up, tonight, excise duty is 10%. Up, 400,000. creative Poles will reduce their pension at the request of PiS Members, finally, that you will rob people with disabilities. You have to admit, Prime Minister, you're starting this new term with a bump. That's why you're gonna leave with a bang and I can assure you that you're gonna leave sooner than four years from now. Here we should say one important thing: the clichés you are talking about a balanced budget - and everyone is focusing on it - are really going to cover your real problem. Well, the Prime Minister knows you've crossed the line this year and violated the spending rule. You did it in May and July. And what we really need to do is rob our children and grandchildren by taking money from the Demographic Reserve Fund, so that Marian Banas doesn't stand before the Court of State. Because the fact that he's going to stand trial for tax evasion is certain, but now you want to do this Solidarity Fund bill so that Banas doesn't stand before the State Court. By the way, the golden thought of your predecessor, Prime Minister, i.e. All you have to do is not steal, you could have given Marian Banasi and those crooks you hired with him at the Ministry of Finance. Maybe today you wouldn't have such budget problems. It is not surprising, in this context, that with a smaller conspiracy than usual, you were talking about the fight against the VAT mobs and the crazy mobs, because it turned out that they were actually crazy, but not where Mr. Horala was looking for them. They were crazy at the Ministry of Finance, you're right. [[Applause]] Just not at the time. They were crazy exactly when you came to the Ministry of Finance. What could he have done? Just hiring. Considering the fact that you're really... Because it's still worthwhile to disappoint this problem of VAT sealing and these successes. Well, you know how much VAT revenues have increased in relation to GDP - because that's what it says - during the PiS governments in relation to our governments? About 0.4 percentage points. Given that they are strongly correlated with economic growth, today we see that Banas has actually distributed fiscal control. The question is, why did he do it? Because we thought he was incompetent, and today we're wondering if he did it to make it easier for those of his colleagues at the Ministry of Finance. And the question that actually stands in front of the High House is whether Prime Minister Morawiecki of incompetence knew about it or not. Why are you pressing charges? I ask questions, and I have every right to do so - I am an MEP. And I'm asking on behalf of 36,000. the citizens who voted for me. They, I assure you, would like to know the answers to that question. Finally, some evidence that your ugly manners of lying to Poles are quite well. Well, you were talking about reducing spending on administration, and you are the prime minister, who tripled the expenditure on the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. You're saying there's an increase in education expenditure. After all, this is a lie, Prime Minister, you were the finance minister, you should know that... I understand that you can come out and say that it was 10 billion then, and now it is 14, and you are happy that 4 more. If we're talking about the budget, about public finances, we have something to refer to. We refer to gross domestic product. So let me repeat: unfortunately, you lied to the High House, [[Applause]] that education subsidies are increasing because it has decreased in relation to GDP, Prime Minister. Check it out, this is CUS data. You announced an increase based on qualifications. Again, a lie, because in a few hours in this House, all these people with the highest qualifications will be reduced by your salary. You're gonna bribe them with a pension fee, which you know they're never gonna get back to, and you're not gonna admit it's just a tax. Last but not least, write in the Constitution employee capital plans or individual pension accounts. Prime Minister, do you really want the PiS to protect Poles from the PiS? No need to take 15% And you're out of your mind, no one steals from anyone, no one needs to be included in the constitution. What's more, you guys have a problem with constitutional regulations. Why are we supposed to believe you're not following the articles on the National Judicial Council, and you're going to keep the articles on the National Judicial Council? I think that's too much too. And last but not least, you put a few points in your exposé from the Civil Coalition program. It's exciting, it's worth learning from the better, so it was also about the sketches you called local roads there, and it was about equal pay for men and women, it's all important and that's good. You also told me about the Estonian tax. Yeah, we worked it out, I encourage you. Our show. I gave one of the ministers on one of the TV shows. It's worth reading. But you don't even know how to move this idea, because you want to introduce this Estonian CIT for small businesses, while the essence of it is that the company doesn't pay profits to grow, and you do this little company, as it's going to be a little bigger, it's going to blow your mind and say, oh, buddy, now you're paying higher CIT. It doesn't make any sense. And unfortunately, it is precisely because you do not understand the economy, do not understand public finances, do not respect the law or spending rules that our country imposes on itself for the safety of its citizens, so the winter that will come after the summer of the grasshopper, which unfortunately ends, and the Prime Minister knows it will be very painful, and it is only sad that it will be painful for Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u33	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! The Left Club, outrageously listening to the Prime Minister's exposé, did not hear a word about local finances. You've given very little time to the prime ministers. Today, it is the responsibility of local governments to run institutions that serve the everyday life of Poles and Poles. You told the Prime Minister that there was a 3.5 billion increase in education, and that is true. But the Prime Minister didn't say that the expenses that this subsidy is supposed to cover are 3.5 times higher, which is 12,250 million more spending. They will not be covered by the 3.5 billion that are included in the state budget. This is outrageous. Today, budget sessions in cities and cities don't even have, which hasn't happened before, in subsidies to cover teachers' wages. And the Prime Minister said (The bell) that since January there will be additional wages. It's just not true. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u35	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We welcome the Prime Minister's declarations of additional resources, including, in relation to what the previous speaker said about education. e.g. to modernise the school, to invest in the school - this is specific support for local governments and I think that many will be happy - and above all for increases for teachers. Without teachers it is impossible to implement a really good program for schools, you have to involve them, they need to understand what is happening, they need to be appreciated, valued and well motivated. Finally, most importantly, the role of parents and their right to decide on the upbringing of their children - a very, very important request. But I listened to this discussion from the very beginning, to all the club speeches, and I was amazed to see that almost none of you, almost no head of the club, paid the slightest attention to matters of education. I therefore think, Prime Minister, that you can assume that all the opposition clubs in this situation... You have to listen. ...but they accept and appreciate these demands which were expressed in the Prime Minister's exposé, and they support it. Indeed, it has fallen - I answer you already, please don't be nervous, I listened carefully - there was a kind of reference to educational matters, but as usual going back to history, telling stories about various things that took place in the previous term, so I will be happy to do so too. For the last four years, you have been defending the supposedly fantastic education system, which has existed in Poland for several years and you think it was great. You said, and today it has been repeated as usual, that Law and Justice destroys very good middle school, that 3 year old high school works well, in general the Polish education system was fantastic. That's right, yes, some junior high schools were good, primary schools were good, as well as high school. But some had access to them because you know that the district was a myth, and their parents were extremely determined to get their children to better schools. In Wrocław, we were simply dealing with the mass check-in of parents, grandparents, friends, so that their children would get to the area where they are ranked, the description in the media so-called. Better middle school. It's the same thing with elementary school. You're gonna take it out, too? You defended this pathological, elite system built on the grounds of public school after all. There's one thing I've been wondering about all this time. Why didn't you say openly and honestly that, in your opinion, the neoliberal school is cool, that it suits you that it is a consumer factory, that the student is a customer, and that the teacher is just a service seller, that economics, putting on efficiency and usefulness - better science, you said, entrepreneurship rather than antiquity - measuring the efficiency of both schools and students, teaching how the market works? And the students, especially their parents, quickly understood what was worthwhile, and unfortunately it was not gaining knowledge as such, but early pathing, profiling, because why would a future medical student need history lessons, it is not necessary to achieve the goal. The most important things have become the content that would bring concrete results, quickly and best without much effort. Why don't you say openly that this is the kind of neoliberal school that's just okay and you're okay with it? Why were you looking for different stories and arguments when we introduced our reforms, and you didn't just admit that what you were building after the reform of Minister Handke and what Minister Hall continued is exactly what you wanted for the Polish school? And that's actually the fundamental difference between us. We are trying to reverse this unfortunate neoliberal trend for the Polish school, which after 1989 has invaded all areas of social life, and unfortunately the Polish school has not been able to resist it either. We talked about why we were changing it and we were doing it consistently and specifically. It was extremely difficult, because for years the discussion about education has been actually going on around the neoliberal dogma, as if there were never any other ideas, concepts. We were told, Poles, all participants of the system, that at this time and in the place in which Poland is located after the changes in the system, the school must be treated almost as an economic area, that there is no other way that it is to be a company. We say it's not. We do not agree to this path, therefore we consistently implement our plan. And I'm glad we're gonna keep this up. I'll remind you that in my previous term of office, because I don't want to go back to all the details and remind them, that's one thing. We have restored the academic course in high school, which was abolished in the course of Minister Hall's reform. We are betting on a school in which learning and developing skills, not indicators, are the most important, on a school in which the community is important, building bonds and cooperation, a school which gives cultural roots, and finally an egalitarian school, the same for all, regardless of the social status of parents or the place on the map of Poland in which it is located. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u37	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u38	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! President Kaczyński was gracious to draw a vision of the state, values, the world of values that are important to you. He mentioned - just quote - three: freedom, trust and family. Prime Minister! If you want to be faithful to these values, if you want to convince us that these values really mean something to you, if you want to earn our trust - by saying our own, I mean the Polish society - then you must be aware that a certain standard in Western civilization, the norm in terms of democratic standards, is the transparency of the assets of the highest civil servants. Unfortunately, you are the first Polish Prime Minister after the Polish People's Republic, who hides his income from Polish society, [[Applause]] Because this isn't your wife's income, because you're the one who owns the estate, you earn it, you run the financial operations with the Church, the diocese of Wroclaw, you own these parcels. You, not your wife. Before you took over the Prime Minister's office, you put this property on your wife's behalf. And standard... In order to meet certain standards to speak of trust, because words mean little, you must reveal this wealth. You promised us that. You told us it would take you a while to expose this property. Talking about values in the context of a family gives this a completely different context. You simply have to do this for Poland, so that we can meet certain standards. You and standards. For 30 years in this House, all Polish prime ministers in their exposé and their activities led us towards the West. You're the first prime minister to say this West, this bad West. You are the first Prime Minister to draw us, verbally and in fact, from the West to the East, not only without revealing your property, as you do. in Ukraine, but also denying the basic values on which Western civilization is built. I am really ashamed that after 30 years when we have rooted Poland in Europe, we have rooted Poland in the values of the Western world, we have returned to where we were taken from. It is a shame that the Polish Prime Minister is pissing on the West, says about us that we have some other system of values than the Western world. We are from the Western world, and please don't take us, Prime Minister, from this world. I've listened to a lot of speeches, a lot of premieres. They always have a structure, natural, intrusive, obvious. I mean, we're being listened to by the diplomatic corps. The prime ministers of many countries came here. There is always a discussion after the exposé, which the country is mentioned first. The point is, is it mentioned first, e.g. France, whether Germany is first mentioned, in which order Ukraine is exchanged, what is said about Russia. You didn't say anything about these countries. That construction wasn't here. [[Applause]] You didn't say a word: Germany, you didn't say a word: France, you didn't say a word: Britain. You used Britain once in context... Let's talk about Poland. Here's Poland. And all your Polish complexes. And the point is that Poland is not a lonely island, but lives in a certain world. And when the diplomatic corps sits here, the Prime Minister should give the world some news. He should pass on some knowledge of the government's policy. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Your Marshal, would you allow me to... I'm asking you to calm down. You have a lot to say to the world right now. Too bad you didn't say that when you had the time. This is very bad news for Poland, that to all the ambassadors who are now writing notes to their countries, we have not given any knowledge about what our policy is, for example, in the Middle East. Word didn't come out. North Africa - you said: migration, migration. But there are challenges. As far as these countries, geographical areas, you have only said about the Western Balkans, that we will support them. Very well, Prime Minister, it was only your government that completely lost this case because the last summit was unfortunately a burial for many years of the Western Balkans in the Union, a dam on their way to the European Union. I'm rooting for you, but you're the only one who's failed in this case, and so have transporters. You were talking about the Polish truckers being able to drive... But at the expense of our economic interests, you have suffered an absolute failure in this sphere. That's because when you have a chance when you should be talking, when you should be giving good news, you just have nothing to say to our partners. Nothing. And then you're surprised that, actually, in every area of foreign policy, we're failing. Among your achievements you have said, I quote from your head, but precisely: we have managed to block the wrong nominations in the Union. This is a positive agenda? Is that a signal to our partners that you've blocked someone? And what did you do positive in the Union? What have you done in our union? What did you do positive, what connected Poland to the Union, what connected the Union to Poland, what rooted us in the West? You're talking about a strategic alliance with the United States. That's not true either. You have a strategic alliance with Donald Trump, not the United States. And that's the big risk you're putting our country at, because Trump might not be here in a minute. Trump may not be here any minute, and you're not having a dialogue, you're not building a strategic alliance with the United States, with all the political forces in the United States, you're just betting on Trump. How some of Trump's allies end up here today was already mentioned here. Of course, let Poland not end this way. We do not wish Poland to be so alone. But the fact is that you are putting us at such a risk that a politician who can fail is the only guarantee of our political interests. This is a big mistake. We must build our alliances on the basis of the European Union, based on NATO, which is not only the United States, but also our NATO-European allies, who often have a completely different opinion than President Trump, whose policy towards our region, towards Russia, is not at all beneficial to us. We need to see these alliances wider. And today in this speech, Prime Minister, I just didn't have it. Why wasn't it? Because you didn't even stutter about it. I don't understand one sentence at all that you said. I don't know if you fully understand them. You voted in favour of fiscal convergence in the Union, talking about the fight against tax havens. I have been following the discussion in the European Union on this issue for many, many years. I do not know if you have noticed, but we have made some kind of return on this matter as Poland, because for years there has been a French-German alliance, which aims to unify corporate taxes, income taxes, which Poland opposes. You opened the gate to the French and Germans today to make tax convergence. I would like to say that this is also detrimental to Polish politics, because our competitive advantage, the advantage of our companies, the attractiveness of Poland is precisely that we have lower income taxes. You want to introduce 40% tax on companies, companies in Poland. You just announced it. Your speech is a lot of very worrying announcements, which are unfavorable for Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Czarnecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u40	Prime Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The exposé of the Prime Minister necessarily refers to the future, as we have just heard, of a good future for Poland. But from this place it is impossible not to go back a few years, specifically until 18 November 2015, when you presented your exposé to Prime Minister Beata Szydło. During the club speeches from one of the opposition leaders 14 times the password came out: you can't do it. Today Richard Petru is not with us, and Law and Justice have achieved a historic outcome in recent parliamentary elections, which is probably the best summary of both the credibility of the opposition and the effectiveness of our governments. Also today we have been faced with a canonada of accusations from our political opponents, but there are what Poles have become accustomed to, typical blanks. This is where I have to disappoint our antagonists. As in 2015, we will be able to meet the expectations of our fellow countrymen today. This has also been reflected in the speech by Prime Minister Morawiecki, who in a very graphic way, but very rich in content, details, presented us the plans of his office. Total opposition often uses arguments not to go back to what was. In the case of 8 years of their rule, it may actually be better to put a veil of silence over them. It is the last three years that are both the best determinant and the guarantee of the effectiveness of the intentions of the government of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Let's remind you one at a time. GDP - growth in 2014 at 3.3%, last year - more than 50% more, i.e. 5.1% GDP growth. Here's a little hint for the Brussels people: it's the third largest economic growth in the European Union as a whole. The revenue of the state budget in 2014 - PLN 283 billion, and this year - over PLN 100 billion more, or an increase of 35%. Thanks to this, without increasing taxation and deficit, we managed to finance the epochal social programmes. Here it is impossible not to refer to the classics from the Civic Platform, i.e. Jack Rostowski with the famous: the promises he makes to the Law and Justice, there is no money, and in the next four years there will be no money, or Donald Tusk himself: if anyone knows where there are billions buried in Poland that can be distributed to people, he should not delay it. They're not here today, man. You have to steal them. From here, I will answer to Prime Minister Tusk. Those people who knew where they were not buried, but stolen by the VAT mob, were the president of Jarosław Kaczyński and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. And Banana. Also Minister Banas, sir. But, of course, the success of the Polish economy is not only demonstrated by the increase in budget revenue. After all, we can juggle financial and economic indicators as much as we want. Unemployment from 8% in 2015 it went to 3,3% According to the latest Eurostat data, which is the third lowest value throughout the Union, and all this with hundreds of thousands of employed foreigners, who are the best testimony to the Polish economic success of the Government of Law and Justice. Let's move on. The inflation from which the opposition wanted to make political weapons in a passing campaign, including today in this Chamber, last year was just over 1%. Only four countries have been better than us throughout the Union. And all this, once again, with an increase of more than 35% in budget spending on a scale of four years. Such facts as 2/3 of the EU industry's jobs, which have been created in Poland in recent years, or fifth place in foreign direct investment in Europe, best testify to the perception of Poland by our foreign partners, contrary to what Mr Nitras said just now. There's no way to emphasize everything that's happened over the last four years. Under conditions when Law and Justice, taking over power in 2015, encountered the situation that practically every field of social life in Poland was in decline: whether it is education, health care or infrastructure projects. Not to mention the complete lack of support for the family, which - I will remind you of the words of Prime Minister Beata Szydło - is not a cost, but is an investment. The investment, thanks to which we are dealing with the historical growth of Polish potential, including the economic one. And this is all under the conditions of the mafia of VAT in 2015 or the complete distribution of the state administration. We have also heard a great deal about civil liberties and freedoms in this Chamber. At this point it is impossible not to repeat, after you, President Jarosław Kaczyński, that true freedom also has, and perhaps above all, an economic dimension. Here I will remind you of his words: Freedom has this aspect that is in its pocket. A man who has empty pockets, empty wallet, is not free. To those for whom President Kaczyński is unfortunately not yet an authority, I will remind you of the slogan of another politician, Bill Clinton's slogan, which gave him victory in the 1992 elections, namely: Economy, fool. I am pleased that these aspects have found the right place and sound in the Prime Minister's speech. This is the best guarantee for further development of Poland. Slower, slower. It is not an art to be a good prime minister when the global economic situation allows it. True statesmen are recognized by their ability to run a country during crises and difficulties. The biggest challenge is to care for the welfare of the country, citizens at these moments. And here again the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki gives an exam on responsibility for the fate of Poles and Poland. The awareness of global threats and prescriptions, such as reducing the budget deficit, supporting Polish innovation, investment incentives for entrepreneurs or changes in the settlement of CIT, clearly shows the prospects for Poland's development and the right direction chosen by the whole camp of the United Right. Also emphasising the role of strategic government projects, such as the Central Communication Port, digging up the Vistula mine, the program of 100 bypasses, Via Carpatia, Via Baltica, Baltic Pipe, that is all we can call the historic programme of modernization of Poland, indicates the active role of the state in economic processes, so important in meeting the challenges of the 21st century. The development of industry, including heavy investments crucial for our development in the energy sector, the struggle in Brussels for Polish right state and interests of the Polish entrepreneur - all this found a significant sound in the speech of the Prime Minister and demonstrates the long-term perspective of Poland's development, which will allow us to use our strategic place on the map of Europe. The credibility of the previous four years of the rule of law and justice allows us to look to the future with confidence, and the fulfilment of the assumptions set out in the speech by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is a guarantee of the success of social solidarity policy and a strategy for responsible development, which, as the outcome of the last parliamentary elections clearly indicated, is important for most Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u41	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Kowal, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In one matter, I would only really like to address you, because it really frightened me - when I listened to your speech - how little was there about foreign policy. It frightened me because today is a moment when there is a particular change in the world - when we look at what President Macron is doing, how French politics is changing, when we look at changes in the European Union, when we look at Donald Trump's policy in the Middle East and the nearest East. There are questions about what Polish diplomacy has instruments, how the Polish government intends to deal with it. These are the real questions your government has been facing in recent years and will be standing for the next four years. We have seen in the last 4 years, despite the efforts of different people, at the highest level no interest in Eastern politics. And here I would like to appeal to you. You must be in Kiev, you must be in Chisinau, you must be in Tbilisi. This is where Poland's position in Europe is determined. [[Applause]] That's where our strength came from. That's where the Eastern Partnership came from. You can't ignore it, you can't close it with two round sentences in an exposé and then be silent for four years. You need to think about it, that's what I wanted to appeal to you today. There is also the future of Polish interests. If you want an offer in the West, you'll have to bring something from the East, say you're involved. Please note what is happening in Ukraine today. Pay attention to what's going on in the Caucasus. Our partners from all over the European Union are present there. Poland isn't there. I would like to appeal to you not to put you to sleep on unsolved issues such as the Crimea case, such as the Donbass case. These are not things that are part of our hobby. These are matters that are indeed relevant to the situation and security in Europe. I was very surprised that you couldn't even say a few sentences today. And I was surprised that the Foreign Minister didn't make sure that there were at least a few sentences in your speech about it. [[Applause]] On behalf of our club I would like to tell you very clearly and unambiguously that this is not a matter of hobby, but it is a matter of Polish tradition, it is a matter of the achievements of many governments of the Third Republic and it is a super important issue for the Polish state right. Don't forget that. [[Applause]] This, however, is a MEP.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Horała, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the exposition of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki... Banasia needs to be... ...on which we are discussing today, there have been many very important accents. But the most important accent at first is the roots we grow from, the source of our identity. There are many who say that we should look to the future. This is, of course, based on Marxism, a vision of progress, which is to cross the past, to cut itself off from the past, to overcome its past in such dialectical progress. This approach is of course the attitude of such a stupid gardener who says: I care about beautiful fruits, I care about beautiful leaves, fresh, green. What's with the roots? Let's cut out these roots. Let the trees be made up of leaves and fruits. Just as the tree needs roots, so the nation needs its roots, so the state needs the identity on which it is built. We have seen a multidimensional attack on this identity in recent years. We observe, of course, coming to us from abroad, such an intellectual current that seeks to create a man without property, to destroy what is rooted in man, which builds his identity, which determines his place in the world: faith, religion, family, patriotism, attachment to his homeland. All these values, which we once obviously thought were sacred, important, valuable, are now subject not only to criticism, but even to attack. It is a very important statement that the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Right, will clearly oppose this attack, that it will clearly defend our family, our faith, our identity. Ladies and gentlemen! Defense is here the word key. 'Cause who's the aggressive side here? Who's the attacking party here? Was it the politicians of Law and Justice who wanted, I don't know, to introduce in schools some card of a Pole Catholic? No, it's the politicians of the Civic Platform who put an LGBT card in schools. Two hours of religion are in high school. Do Law and Justice politicians go to some kind of heterosexual marches where rainbows are desecrated or other symbols of this environment? No, it is the politicians of the Left, the politicians of the Platform, who go to marches of LGBT environments, where religious symbols are desecrated. You can clearly see who's the attacker and who's the defender. This big identity, this big story. After all, Poland begins with the baptism of Poland. Without the baptism of Poland we would not be here, there would be no Poland at all. There would be no Poland without the Lviv vows of John Kazimierz, without Our Lady of Czestochowa and Our Lady of Ostrobramska. In the Polish national epoch in Invocation we read: "Miss Christmas, what you defend Jasna Częstochowa/ I in Ostrze you shine Gate! Think about whether you really want to erase all of this from our identity. And if you erase it, what's left of it? What are we gonna build on? But who wants to erase it? And in the days of our contemporary cardinals. Wyszyński, pope of St. John Paul II or Blessed John Paul II. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, these are the characters from which we can draw the pattern, the strength for our actions. Jędraszewski. Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And one more important point. I was talking about defense here. For this defence to be effective - I am addressing a slightly different side of the political scene - it is the government that is needed, a parliamentary majority is needed, and not a bunch of dozens of loud publicists who can speak beautifully, harshly from the stand, will be so radical in their patriotism, so radical in their conservativeism that they will finally get 10 and the majority of the population will permanently expose these values and achieve that they themselves will be able to live comfortably with the preaching of these too, and most for long years will hand over to the left-liberal option which will destroy all these values. Yeah, I'm sure. Ladies and gentlemen! In this great Polish tradition, in this great Polish identity to which we refer, from which we draw our strength to our actions, there is, of course, tolerance. The Warsaw confederation is located. It was Poland that was always a country of tolerance and it was here that people from other countries fled from persecution. So if you are now talking to Poles about some particular intolerance, some particular xenophobia, it is either ignorance, total ignorance, ignorance of elementary facts from the history of the Polish people, or simply a deliberate lie. Freedom. If we look at this Poland rooted in Western civilization, then the value which Poles from this civilization especially loved, especially elevated to the pedestal, is precisely freedom. We observe that this attack on the roots of our identity is also an invasion of freedom. Suddenly, it turns out that a man is merely engaged in a business activity or in a relationship with a contract of employment, he is to be forced to promote ideology with which he disagrees. Moreover, there are such requirements that this country is to be the institute, the institution of oppression which, on behalf of these ideologies, is to punish citizens. The same people who say that protection of religious feelings must be removed from the law, the same people say that punishment for so-called. homophobia. They're not even hiding that it's about some particular freedom of thought, they're just saying that there are sacred things that the law is supposed to protect. Except this sanctity is LGBT ideology. We will, of course, oppose this. It is the government of the United Right that guarantees this majority in the Seym, this power, that social support, which will make this defence effective. But our tradition, our identity apart from freedom is also a tradition of solidarity. Peterovich. Banana. It's a tradition that we're together, that we're a community. This has not been the case in Poland for many years. For many years in this Polish community many Poles, millions of Poles, were left on the margins. Millions of Poles have heard that they are unnecessary, that they are some by-products of transformation, that they actually harm Poland because they live, they are just trouble. It was the Law and Justice government who broke up with this approach. He said, but not only did he say, but he translated it into a specific policy, into concrete actions, that in Poland there is room for every Pole, that there are no unnecessary Poles in Poland, that everyone, so it is commonly said, is going in one wheelchair. Maybe we should say better: we are on one ship and no one from Poles appears on this ship as a ballast or someone who needs to be thrown overboard to make this ship better sail. That's how you guys act. We have turned these words into concrete actions. These numbers were already falling here, for example Gini's coefficient, the coefficient of social span. Millions of Poles were rescued from poverty, Polish poverty finally ceased to have a child's face, which was the biggest disgrace of all years after the transformation. If we were to gather the qualities that predispose a person to be poor, then of course it was sometimes poor education, lack of work, but it was primarily having a large family, a large number of children. This guaranteed that it was living in poverty, such was the anti-family social and economic system in Poland. Only the Law and Justice was the formation that broke away from this state of affairs. But the community doesn't just have a social dimension. These exclusions had not only a social dimension but also a geographical dimension, a spatial dimension. Very many things that we had in Poland, better, worse, those that we could afford, such as: health care, education, but also culture, also entertainment, after all entertainment is also for people... Theoretically, we had them, but they weren't really for everyone for a simple reason: because someone just didn't have a way to get to the theater, to the hospital or to another institution. The fact that he had been shut down by bus connections, that he had been shut down by a railway connection, that he had a poor quality local road, a commune road, a district road. Here again, we are not just talking about announcements - of course, in the new term we will carry out these activities - but about actions that are already being implemented, for example. The great program of the Self-Government Road Fund. In recent months, I have often met with local governments, I have participated in signing contracts. It was very often the case that local governments told me that they were participating in signing agreements for local governments of a given county, and the amount of funding is the same as before 2015 was for the entire voivodship, that this is the increase multiple jumping, five - Seven. - ten times. What kind of voivodship is that? Pomeranian, sir. But that's what happens in every voivodship. Not in Mazowsze, believe me. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not only the implementation of the basic obligation of us as caring for our community that everyone in this community will be able to benefit from this, both in terms of social mobility and this real mobility, mobility in space, but it is also a huge boost of strength for our economy, that is to say, the connection to our economy of huge resources that have been disconnected from it so far, which have not participated in this economic system. Of course, it translates into results. But this community has another dimension. It has a dimension of a political community. These calls now from the beginning of the term of office, in general, call to the community, to work out a field beyond the divisions on which we can cooperate, however, are mixed, especially from the opposition side, with the insertion of the option of governing different pins, so as not to say: sometimes the whole sword. Ladies and gentlemen! This is really your decision. We have two traditions in Poland, I would say. One is the tradition of 1918 - we recently celebrated another anniversary of regaining independence - when outstanding Poles from very different political camps, with very different views: Marshal Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, but also Ignacy Daszyński, Wojciech Korfanty, Paderewski, Wincenty Witos and many, many others, were able to rise above these divisions and together, ba, maybe even thanks to this diversity more effectively, because everyone had their share, their contacts, their environments, working together for Polish independence. But we also have a second tradition, a market tradition, a tradition that a group of magnates who have lost... And 1926? ...influences, money, said: The Constitution of May 3 is an assassination of the rule of law, that is the destruction of the sacred principles of the Polish rule of law. They were even slightly right, because the Sejm was sitting in a permanent confederation to bypass the veto liberum, and after Easter, not all Members were effectively called back to the meeting. And they said this: this is a threat to the rule of law, this is a threat to our rights, we have every right to call for help from the outside, to restore this wonderful rule of law with Liberum veto, with all the institutions in Poland. And here I am addressing the Members of the opposition: this is your choice. There was an appeal not to divide people into Poles, traitors. I totally agree. I would very much like this tradition of the trade fair confederation in Poland to disappear completely, so that no one will refer to it anymore. As I say, it is a choice whether we can recognize that someone else is in charge, that someone else has won the elections and that we can also as a constructive opposition some of the most important actions for Poland, support or choose the path of total opposition, which some of you have chosen earlier. Let's hope he's done with this. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about this dimension of communityism and political freedom, see how this discussion today illustrates the enormous political freedom that exists in Poland. Not only do we have people here who, you know, have been living for years from attacking the government... If Max Weber were alive, he could write the second part of his book, this time attacking the government as a profession and calling. They've lived well with it for many years, a hair doesn't fall off their heads. And that's very good, because that's what democracy is all about, and that's what freedom is all about. Is that a preview? Enough of that, you can still attack the government from very different positions. This attack has wide-ranging wings: from Marxist-Leninist to Nationalist, Anarchocapitalist and, of course, as always with a powerful huff of no-idee thieves inside, this is always the strongest. There is no obligation to use all the time. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to continue my speech. Smart. You have your time, too. Banasio. The issue of public finances. Ladies and gentlemen! We will come to the issue of public finances. Banas, too? I was talking here about infrastructure, about this infrastructure, let's say small, but very important, because it triggers full unity, full communality where communes, communication begins to reach the districts, bus connections are restored, rail connections, good roads are being restored. But it also has this strategic dimension. If we look at this great challenge, which we will face in this term, the National Railway Programme, the National Road Construction Programme, it will turn out that it is a great investment programme for about PLN 200 billion, which we will invest in Polish infrastructure in the next few years. In a slightly longer perspective is the Central Communication Port, but connected with it a new communication framework of the country, rail connections will finally break these out-of-election events in Polish communications connections. It has to be said that they were fought in quite an original way in the 1990s, because in the year, let's say, 1990 there were very clear boundaries after the partitions, and that's because there was a much denser network of rail connections in the area of German acquisition. These differences were combated by the method that further railway connections were closed so that railway connections were as rare as ever across the country. We reversed that trend. We are building railway lines and we will restore rail connections, just like bus connections, and finally we will build a new communication framework, where the Central Communication Port will perform as the heart of the passenger traffic. This communication will spread to every commune, just like the human blood circulation into the smallest vessel, so that all Poles living across the country also have the right to communicate, to connect to the world and the rest of the country and can use it, just by running their small business, because we support the development of Polish entrepreneurship. It was a question of the passenger dimension. Freight is still dominated by maritime transport. This is also the case for large projects which are already in the next stages of development: the central port in Gdańsk, the external port in Gdynia, even the deep-water container terminal in Szczecin and Świnoujście. Their implementation - and as they have been said, these business projects are being implemented, are already in the process of a public-private partnership, there are private partners who see profit for themselves here - will mean more than doubling the capacity of Polish ports. They're already breaking records year by year, they're already bringing billions into the state budget, but in the coming years, making these investments, more than we're going to double these values. Poland, especially the Tricity, will become the dominant transhipment hub in the Baltic Sea basin. This, of course, must be followed by investments in access infrastructure, in the distribution of these streams of goods across the country. Economy. Because of course this development, these goods must come from somewhere, there must be something to reload, there must be economic development. We have already shown that we can manage this development so that it is record-breaking. Of course, Poland is subject to various world trends, in the world economy, only that as so far it has been said that as Germany sneezes, we have flu in the economy in Poland, so now we see that it is actually the other way around, in Germany they have flu, and in Poland the economy can hardly sneeze. We have shown that a model of spontaneous development can be built and that it is an effective model. The OECD forecasts that in the coming years the Polish economy will develop as soon as possible compared to the economies of all OECD countries. Further institutions, such as the World Bank, forecast sustainable, stable economic growth in Poland despite the global slowdown of the economy. This shows how effective economic policy was first adopted in the Responsible Development Plan and then consistently implemented over the last years. Of course, we'll continue. The economy, however, is never an end in itself. We will never pursue an economic policy that I would call the Balcerowicz model, i.e. The fact that the posts agree, the international institutions praise, and, by the way, the companies are bankrupt, people commit suicides out of despair, out of poverty, increasing unemployment. It will never be that way, because economic indicators are not an end in themselves. Of course, we have and we want to have good macroeconomic indicators, but the most important goal is the welfare of Poles, and it is universal prosperity. And here if we look deeper, e.g. As in Poland, for example, pensions are shaped, including additional benefits run by our government, and as salaries are shaped, we can see that we are finally getting out of this trap, as the Prime Minister said, of medium development, but I would even say: low development. This is because Poles make little money, they have little in their pockets, so they only buy the cheapest, without looking at the quality, without looking at the source of production. So in order to survive in this market, you have to cut costs, among others. in such a way that people who work on trash contracts pay little. Because these people don't make much money, so they don't buy much again. It's a spell circle we managed to get out of. The wages are growing rapidly while economic growth is at the same time, although we have been threatened that rising wages will result in an increase in unemployment. I kindly inform you that we have the lowest unemployment in Poland in history, that more than 1.5 million new jobs have been created. And such a model of economic growth, which primarily serves to increase what the statistical Pole has in his pocket, will continue. Ladies and gentlemen! The economy also translates into the budgetary situation. You've been very demanding to talk about public finances. You're welcome. Miss Isabella Leszczyna in her statement... I must appreciate such great intellectual disvolution, the ability to find such indicators and to refer one by one to the third, so that it does not turn out that the Government of Law and Justice has succeeded in sealing the tax system. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this government has been a success. Growth. The fact that we have PLN 100 billion more in the budget is that we have achieved at the same time three goals, which basically according to classical science economics are simultaneously impossible to achieve, i.e.. the budget deficit has been reduced and sometimes even eliminated, the level of government debt has been significantly reduced, while expenditure has been significantly increased, various social programmes have been launched, and taxes have been reduced... ...these new taxes. The day of tax freedom had a record early, which was June 6th, last year it was June 8th, which was about two to three weeks earlier than it was under the Platform's rule. Of course, the classical science of economics does not take into account the scale of theft and fraud that previously occurred in Poland. It was that factor X, to put an end to all this stealing and cheating... Transfer to the Ministry of Finance. ...have generated additional measures which are not explained by any macroeconomic indicators. If economic growth in a given year is less than 5% , growth in consumption 6% And the increase in VAT revenue is 23%, and that shows what the scale was. If fuel consumption grows by 20% in Poland day by day, it shows what part of the market was going, in colloquially speaking, to the left. But excise duty doesn't grow by 20%. Well, please, the honourable Member is asking for an explanation of why excise duty is not increasing. Because in one of the basic schemes of the VAT carousel in the case of fuel, the criminal group paid excise duties in order to authenticate the turnover and to extort VAT of much greater value. We're talking about these days. Ha, ha, ha! So now that this VAT isn't cheating, when it's... It's about today. Okay, one more time. Maybe you don't understand. That scheme paid excise duty on fictitious turnover. Therefore, now that this fictional turnover has been eliminated, the VAT receipts have increased in particular. Revenues from excise duties also increased, but not so much, because, as I say, earlier on the fictional, criminal trade, excise duties were carried out in order to make it credible. [[Applause]] It doesn't bother anymore. You're mistaken. Bravo. Well, there will be questions, then perhaps the Prime Minister will answer. Allow me to continue my statement. Ha, ha, ha! You've had a chance to learn something, it's always worth it. It's worth coming to the debate. That didn't work out so well. Ladies and gentlemen! Another major challenge for the coming years is the transformation of Polish energy. Here, too, voices appear completely irresponsible, e.g. one of the leaders of one of the parties sitting here said that he wanted to close all the mines in Poland. Not to mention what the miners would have done then and where would we have taken coal to Polish coal plants, which would necessarily continue to function. Why should there be electricity in our sockets? Other proposals, absolutely irresponsible, are e.g. a proposal for a rapid, rapid closure of these power plants. We must, of course, carry out a transformation towards the use of renewable energy sources, but it must be a rational transformation, taking into account the needs of the Polish economy, which will not cause Poles to have two or three times more expensive electricity from day to day. This is the kind of transformation we're going to be doing. An interesting project to which I would like to draw the attention of the High House, which was announced in the exposé, is the offshore wind energy project. The state is terribly critical of the law that civilized the land-based wind energy industry, where there were a number of irregularities. With all due respect, land-based wind energy is this, I'm sorry about colloquialism, dummies. About five windmills, about ten. One offshore wind farm could be 1,000 windmills operating in much better wind conditions. She can deliver 0.5 GW or a whole 1 GW power to the system. These projects are already underway, and they're already advanced. In this term of office, we will introduce a law on energy, which will accelerate development and cause us to gain gigawatts of pure energy from renewable sources into the Polish system, and at the same time, in a wise manner by carrying out this investment, we will gain a whole package of orders for the Polish steel industry, steel construction, shipbuilding and Polish ports, which in the meantime will also expand, as I mentioned. It will be one of the flywheels of the Polish economy. Energy transformation - I would like to repeat that to break out - we can carry out so that it does not harm the Polish economy, but drives it to be beneficial for our economy. We'll do it in the next term. If we're talking about energy, it's often associated with the subject of ecology, clean air. Of course, we all want to breathe clean air, we want pure nature in Poland, we want to pass it on to our children and grandchildren. Who's really doing this? Ladies and gentlemen, all these years we have been scared of our governments by the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. What's our verdict? Judgment for the lack of anti-smog policy under the PO-PSL regime. This is a real sentence that has touched us. This government was the first to do so consistently and, of course, with its head. If someone e.g. He's criticizing coal power plants and it's associated with smog, which means he has no idea what he's talking about. Smog does not arise as a result of the combustion of high-performance coal in power plants or power plants. If all the houses were plugged in, of course, it's impossible, but if they were theoretically plugged in to the power plant, to the system heat, then the smog problem would be solved. Our real actions are, for example, the Clean Air programme, which, contrary to what you say, is a huge success and is very interesting. He's a complete failure. Over 30,000. signed contracts, over 100,000. contracts are processed and the money is guaranteed for the following years. 4 million, 4 million. Then help people. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd even take criticism of 100,000. It's not enough, but it's not from the formation that made zero. That's not true. If someone did zero, don't criticize, they don't say 100,000. It's not enough. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Security is an extremely important area to which the Prime Minister drew attention in his speech. Poles in their country feel safe, for they feel much safer than in many Western European countries. We are in such a mental film that we are chasing this West, we want to join it, we want to catch up with it, and in many areas of high standard of living it is. But in the area of security, Western European countries could do a lot. Poland is envied. In the area of security, we are such an island of security, also in the European Union. And that's also due to this government. See how it all goes with the other is connected in this consistent policy of the Government of Law and Justice. If we were talking about social exclusion, about the fact that all areas, including geographical ones, were excluded, then one of the elements of this exclusion was the liquidation of police stations, and it was also that Poland was only a beautiful word for many Poles, because they in their everyday life did not actually meet with any manifestation of the activity of the Polish state. If something bad happened to a Pole from a criminal, he knew that the police were somewhere far away, there's no telling where. Maybe she'll be here in two hours or she'll be gone at all. We're breaking it off. We restore police stations, invest in uniformed services, which, on this occasion, owe great thanks for the huge success of raising the level of security and security of Poles. Poles view their country as safe and, of course, we will maintain this state of things. But security is not only an internal dimension but also an international dimension. Spiritual. I was very concerned about the statement by the representative of the Left who criticized the purchase of F-35 aircraft and the increase in defence expenditure in general. You only buy cars for VIPs. Ladies and gentlemen! This is absolutely irresponsible. If someone criticizes and says that we should not spend money on F-35 for the Polish army, then they must be aware that they are asking us to fly Mig-35 planes in the Polish sky for free. There was also a voice about some kind of collapse in defence shopping. It's exactly the opposite. The Polish army, the Polish Armed Forces during these 4 years significantly increased their potential. We have created a new type of Armed Forces: the Territorial Defence Army, which responds to the challenges of hybrid war. We formed a new division, the fourth in the Polish army: 18. The Mechanized Division. General Tadeusz Buk, so-called. The Iron Division. Command, not division. But above all, we have created a great program to buy artillery resources. You don't talk about it, and it's worth mentioning. Experience from the modern battlefield, for example from the Donbas War, shows that 80% of the losses of Ukrainian troops came from artillery fire. Artillery has once again become king on the battlefield. And here we are doing a great program of purchasing hundreds of units of artillery equipment, armatohaubic Krab and self-propelled mortars Cancer. This is already realized, these are deliveries taken over by further units of the Polish Army. It's our show. Did you do this? Yeah, we are. We did. And it was done in our governments. Your marshal, I like to argue with Mr Kierwinski and others, but maybe not necessarily during my speech. Ladies and gentlemen! If we criticize the F-35, we say we don't need them, maybe it's worth looking around the world for a little bit. It is worth looking at what, for example. Recently it was happening in Israel, when an excellent Israeli missile defense system, the Iron Dome, was unable to capture all missiles, some homemade, fired by terrorist groups, let alone talk about a professional saturation attack. That's why we need anti-missile troops, hence the purchase of more Patriot rockets. The effective fight against such threats can only be done through counter-batery fire, by such weapons as will be able to destroy positions from which anyone would like to launch rockets or other unpleasant objects on Poland. Hence the F-35, hence the Himars sets and the development of the barrel artillery, and we must be aware of that. We want the Poles to have tens, even hundreds of years of living in peace and peace. But in order to do so, any potential aggressor who would consider attacking Poland needs to know that he will meet with the determined and adequate response of the Polish Armed Forces. Only then will we be able to enjoy peace. The fact that the Polish left criticizes the fact that we want to defend Poland and increase Polish defence is very strange for me. After all, it is the left-wing poet, and even the communist poet, who wrote that sometimes he tasted bitterly on this land prison bread, but behind this hand raised over Poland - a bullet in the head. I would prefer that the Polish left refer to this tradition and this thought, not to the tradition of leftist movements in Western Europe in the 1980s, which criticized aggressive American rockets, completely disregarding the peace-loving Soviet rockets. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, foreign policy is also a dimension of security policy. I am very pleased that the opposition Members have touched on this subject and have approached it so widely, because earlier in the statements of the opposition I did not see such a broad look. The opposition politicians were like a geography student who spent the whole year skipping school, he only came to one lesson and now he thinks that there are only Berlin and Brussels all over the world and nothing else. European relations with our partners are crucial for us, they are most important for us - whether bilateral or within the European Union - but we must see Polish interests. At least the situational consciousness is around the world, and this is the kind of policy that runs this government in very different formats. The Western Balkans, for example. We hosted the Western Balkans Summit. It is about how important it is for Poland to expand the European Union to include these countries, as it would change our position in the European Union. It is the Visegrad Group, we have repaired the solidarity of the Visegrad Group, unfortunately destroyed by the previous government, which, contrary to the interests of Poland and against our close allies, agreed to bring illegal immigrants called refugees into Poland, directly pursuing the German interest. The Germans brought this problem on their heads, did not know how to deal with it, they were looking - pardon my French - suckers who would rescue them from this oppression and the Polish government, as I say, completely contrary to Polish business. There's one thing you can say. I always say that there is a huge credit to the Civic Platform in stopping the settlement of illegal immigrants in Poland, and this credit is that the Platform lost the elections and gave up power and did not have time to implement this program. For example, the Bucharest Nine - you forget about this country in general, about the active role of Poland in this format, in strengthening the eastern NATO flank, including that it is with the countries of the V4 group, i.e. Bulgaria, Romania, the Baltic countries, we find a common language in the field of security, we co-ordinate our actions together, that Poland is building a coalition within the European Union and that is the historical dimension. Until recently, it was so that if Germany and France were to agree on the head of the European Commission, it would simply be the head of the European Commission, there would be no topic. And this is Poland, Prime Minister Morawiecki, who built a coalition that changed this state of affairs, which showed that Poland... She chose a German. ...is an individual player in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! I have talked a lot about the challenges we face in this term of office. We approach these challenges boldly, with our foreheads up. We have already shown in the first term of office how much Poles can achieve if they remove these restrictions that were in them. These are the limits resulting from a very unsuccessful, lame transformation, from the operation of different sits, the mafia, from the dependence of foreign centers, from the fact that we do not conduct subjective politics. If Poland is liberated from these occasions, it can really do a lot. Maybe. seal your tax system like this We did. After all, this is a basic function of the state. Since ancient times, the state has had territory, some armed forces, and a collection of danins from this area. And in this elementary, basic function, the state failed. The state was like a shark who walks on honest taxpayers and takes their money to pay off the mob. This reprehensible state of affairs has been changed - even though everyone said it was impossible - because Poles are capable of great things. Therefore, I, while joining the appeal of the President, the Prime Minister, wanted to invite you to work together on the future of Poland, on building great, wonderful things for Poland, because Poland is a country of great history. We're proud of her, no one's gonna take that away from us. It's a big, great story. But I am convinced that with this government before Poland there is a great, wonderful future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u45	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Your exposé sounds like a mockery of the intelligence of Poles. You are no longer a political virgin, and in fact you are responsible for four years of PiS rule, and after four years of PiS rule it is difficult to fall for all the fairy tales we have heard. If Pinocchio had a face, he'd have your face in Poland. Beautiful promises fall from the mouth of the rulers, often promises of cooperation, and at the same time what is dripping from television? The venom, the gibberish and the propaganda belief that white is black and black is white. After four years of government, we're just wondering if it's gonna be bad or if it's gonna get worse. The saddest summary of these 4 years is the fact that in 2018 the average life expectancy of Poles was reduced - for the first time since 1989. What does one PiS politician say? Poles must die of something. Statistics are quoted which say that especially many Poles die of oncology in relation to residents of other countries of the European Union. This is not a coincidence, because when ideology replaces sound mind and knowledge, and the desire for political revenge on doctors, officers, teachers, judges, illegitimate journalists becomes the main driver of action, this is exactly what happens. This shows the attitude of the PiS to its citizens. During these four years you devastated the foundations of the Polish state. You dismantled the justice system, deepened the crisis of Polish health care, one step at a time deprived the Polish army of defence, bringing it into the role of parade toy for boys. And finally, you massacred Polish education. In this way you deprived Polish children of the chance to compete with their peers in other European countries. In education, the PiS governments are: the biggest teacher strike since 1993, combined with massed action, among others. public television hating this profession. The deformity of the education that brought us what? Of course, chaos, mess. The gaps in the programmes, especially between the sixth and seventh classes, which were to be completed according to the assurances of the Minister of Life of that time. Reloaded new programs and horrible, underdeveloped textbooks. Heavy bags and no room in schools for lockers, because if two consecutive yearbooks in primary schools and two yearbooks in secondary schools, it turned out that there was no room for lockers anymore. A double yearbook and wasted dreams and hopes of many children. Destroyed bilingual education. What could have been a glory has now fallen by half. Flying teachers, working in several institutions at the same time. The costs of reforms that have been passed on to local governments, so that they actually bear the costs of your sick and unjustified ideas. Your political curators, like Mrs. Nowak from Krakow, are trying to monitor teachers with the help of students. And in addition, they were given power over local governments. And we have a plague of tutoring, this affects 1/3 of all Polish students. You like to talk about Poland as the best country to live in, about overcoming the problems of the Polish People's Republic, but you do not introduce the standards of Estonia or Finland at school, modern educational systems, just the standard of the Polish People's Republic. We will not achieve high quality Polish education without changing our attitude. There won't be a good, friendly school when teachers are treated like slaves by you. We need more practical education, practical skills, cooperation skills, soft competences instead of ideology, more autonomy and prestige of teachers instead of murder and contempt. Therefore, the Civic Coalition has proposed in its programme a flexible structure of the school, which gives real freedom of functioning of local governments, shaping their educational network. The creation of a national education commission, which depolitic programs, then you will stop digging into them, referring to your ideological ideas. Providing real help to students after school, as well as developing passion. Restoring the prestige of teachers and the real autonomy they should have. Helping local governments to expand their school networks, but also so that the school can adapt to the fact that the number of children is increasing and that there are no learning for two or three shifts. None of the solutions we propose are in your proposals. In general, I'll be honest with you, you've treated your stepmother's education as if you didn't understand the value of it. I know that your children mostly go to private schools and therefore you are not interested in the level of public education. It's a $1,000 password. Ecoschool and 2 billion for this purpose within 4 years is a drop in the sea of needs, and this password strangely reminds me of a million electric cars and I'm afraid it might end the same way. School isn't just walls, it's not walls, it's mostly teachers, people and their competences, their autonomy, their willingness to teach. And modern school is not only a matter of computer science and new technologies, but of skills that are so important in the modern world. These skills, which the Polish school not only does not teach, but even, you can say, kills. Okay, practical, friendly school in Poland is possible, but not when ideologies and surveys replace brains and experts. You talk a lot about the best country to live in Europe. It is only a pity that this best life is meant for people with legitimacy of law and justice, not all Poles. We want every Polish child to have the same chance and every Polish family to look forward to the future. Because the best country to live in Europe are not benefits, it is a worthy and valuable job, it is not breaking the law and manipulating public media, it is a good school and good health care, not lying to reality. And that's what the Civic Coalition wants. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u47	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u48	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We heard a long exposé today. I would like to focus on an extremely important topic for millions of Poles and Poles, on the climate crisis. In the climate crisis, because things have to be called by name, that is what responsibility for Poles and Poles requires of us. In a climate crisis that the Prime Minister did not even mention with a word, he did not find time for it. Despite the noisy announcements, we have heard many empty words and promises concerning environmental and climate protection today. A thousand zero-emission schools were promised, just like a few years ago, a million electric cars. A love for renewable energy has been declared and a representative has been appointed to develop - today, when the RES industry is in decline after 4 years of incompetent governments. It has also declared a dynamic fight for clean air, similar to the one so far, which is an inefficient, slow fight that has got stuck in bureaucracy and is centrally controlled. Great words were said about energy security and independence, about big investments in conventional energy - after 4 years of fueling it with Russian coal. With these empty phrases, the Prime Minister wants to convince us that his government will be the most pro-climate and environmentally friendly government that Poland had in its history. Prime Minister! No one's gonna fall for that. Not after lex Szyszko, not after cutting out the Białowieża Forest and looting forests. Not after the burning garbage dumps. Not after the reckless shooting of wild boars. Not after the russian coal heaps. Not after the constant inhibition of the European Union's ambitious climate policy. Not after repeated denial of science, denying that the climate crisis is a fact and is caused by human activity. Not after constantly defending coal as our national treasure, which we will burn to the end of the world and one day longer. Prime Minister! We need courage and ambition to tell the truth. To tell the truth that Poland is in a state of climate crisis. To tell the truth is that we have to get away from coal not in 200, 150 or 100 years, but in 10, 15 or 20 years. To tell the truth that the safety, health and welfare of our children and grandchildren are at risk. Today we need the will to listen to thousands of young people strike for the climate, strike for their future. We need real action today, not just empty declarations. It is time to set up a permanent climate committee, which will create and control these activities in the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]] It is time to create a plan for a fair energy and economic transition that will allow coal to move away once and for all and create new, stable, green jobs. It is time to set up an expert and independent climate council that will help create this transition plan. Time for climate policy based on the current position of science. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's time to act here and now. This is the normality Poland needs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u49	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, also the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Justice is the area of the state, apart from education, in addition to the health protection that PiS has suffered the most. This is the result of such amateur, dylanist reigns of the Terce: Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister Ziobro and President Duda, actions which are aimed not at reform, but at ordinary staff purges. How much have we heard over the last four years about reform, about decounization? But do you think Poles are idiots? These words have nothing to do with reality. Using the method that the Prime Minister used during the election campaign, let's verify your words, see if the justice system was better before or after the PiS government. Simple tests. Jury. The average time of recognition of cases, i.e. what Poles are most interested in, mainly in regional courts, there are more than 90% of cases, has increased by more than 1.3 months. You're record-breakers, because no one else's government has gone on trial. For the first time, both in the area and in the districts. It's an event. Jury. Let's check the prosecutor's office, cases carried out in preparatory proceedings lasting more than 6 months, because this is what Poles are interested in. In 2014, there were 3700 such cases, but in 2017. - It's 9,000 already. Cases settled over 1 year in 2014 - 920, in 2017 - 2600. What's going on with these blockages? What happens when there's a blockage in the D.A.'s office? You're saying you're running a lot of cases where you catch bad guys. Well, let's check the number of indictments coming into court. The year 2014-290 thousand. cases brought before the court in 2017 - 270 thousand, decline, including indictments in 2014 - 282 thousand and in 2017 - It's only 200,000 already. What's going on? The D.A.'s getting weaker under Mr. Ziobra's authority? Well, why don't we check the court settlements at first instance? Good. The year 2014 is 365 thousand. cases completed in the first instance, 2017 - only 300 thousand already. What happens when the D.A.'s office isn't up to speed? Let's move on. Why don't we check the execution procedures? Did you know that in 2018 Polish entrepreneurs, Polish citizens executed from over PLN 62 billion... Do you know how much? It's $9 billion. The Ministry of Justice itself states that enforcement proceedings are becoming less effective. Totally embarrassed. And do you know what connects these three areas: the judiciary, the prosecution and enforcement proceedings? It's that the PiS team went after the so-called. Reformation and that is the result. You can swear by numbers, but the statistics are prepared by the resort, they show the whole truth and expose your forgeries. And to the end. How much we've heard about decommunization. A symbol that will remain for the rest of your public life. Stanisław Zabłocki, distinguished lawyer, cardinal, President of the Supreme Court Penalty Chamber, responsible for the rehabilitation process of Captain Pilecki, expelled by you from the Supreme Court. Throwed out, brutally. And what do you do in return? You're bringing a U.S. Attorney to the tribunal. Aren't you ashamed? Are you signing up for decounisers of the Polish justice system? Lies, ordinary lies and forgeries. This is the true picture of the last four years, and this is the picture of the next four years under your rule. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u51	Thank you very much. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You promised a lot today, Prime Minister. But how can you believe a man who's been convicted of lying? Prime Minister, when you made further promises, I remembered the words of Winston Churchill, who said that every government that is strong enough to give you everything you want is strong enough to take away everything you own. That's how it is with you guys. With one hand you give out promises and with the other hand you steal democracy, destroy the rule of law, limit the rights of all of us enshrined in the Constitution. It is today that the Court of Justice of the European Union has negatively assessed the changes that you have made in the judicial system. He emphasized that your changes undermined trust in the courts in Poland. The Court has made it very clear that the way in which judges are appointed to the National Courts Board is illegal. You're the gravediggers of the state of law. You treat Poland and the justice system just like your party pasture. High Izbo! However, it is not only the National Judicial Council that is included in the list of victims of PiS policy. You also dismantled the independent Constitutional Tribunal by pushing government representatives into it, pushing social discoveries, as well as people who indirectly defend paedophiles. You carried out a direct attack on the Supreme Court, trying to carry out a purge that never happened in any democratic state. Let me be clear: I have no expectations of this government, and I have only concerns about this government, because you can expect everything, but certainly not the law, certainly not justice. The only vote this government has worked for is a vote of distrust, and it's already at the start. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The PiS government is very often talking about defence, about state security, and the impact of this government is that the fighting potential of our Armed Forces has radically decreased. This is particularly well seen in the example of aviation. Ladies and gentlemen, four battle planes were destroyed in the crashes, four helicopters destroyed. For the past eight months, two air bases in which we have combat aviation have failed to perform their tasks. This is a situation that has never been in Poland: that for 8 months people should come to work and not perform flight tasks. This situation is of no interest to the Commander of the Armed Forces, the President, not to the Minister of National Defence. You're talking about F-35, Prime Minister. This talk of yours is an escape from disasters that are the result of your governments. You are talking about getting the F-35, and I am asking you because this is the answer that Polish pilots are waiting for, on which planes Polish pilots will fly next week at the base in Malbork and in Minsk Mazowiecki. What kind of planes are they gonna fly next year? And in two years? I ask because even if we get F-35, in the perspective of 5, 6 years, and for 5, 6 years on which equipment will Polish aviation perform its tasks? You're talking about national defense? What about the Navy? They're finishing their service in the Navy's submarines. Crews have nothing to swim on. A rescue program is needed for the Polish Navy and for Polish aviation. Today people, listening to you, wanted to hear about Polish aviation, what about the Polish Navy. You didn't say a word. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u55	Thank you very much. Anyone else... Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Last parliamentary elections for Law and Justice voted 67% farmers. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister spent a minute in his exposé on farmers and agriculture. This symbolic minute shows the true attitude of your group to the problems of farmers and villages. The Prime Minister made a promise that payments of Polish farmers would be equal to payments of German or French farmers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's another promise that makes you press on your mouth saying, "This cow that roars loudly doesn't give you enough milk." Thank you. [[Applause]] (Speaking outside the microphone)
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u57	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for questions? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice, is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for the exposition of the Government of Law and Justice, which gives the opportunity to develop Poland and guarantee a good future for Poles. The Government of Law and Justice has already done a lot on the development of road infrastructure, including an increase of up to PLN 6 billion per year for the Fund for Roads and Roads, a programme of construction of 100 bypasses in Poland, as well as the construction of motorways and expressways. I have a question for Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. What are the most important road investments envisaged by the Government of Law and Justice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u60	Dear Marshal! Abraham Lincoln had this saying: Sometimes you can fool someone, but you can't lie to everyone all the time. Prime Minister Morawiecki consistently tries to overthrow this wisdom. No wonder your speech was called an exposé of lies. And there was a symbol of this speech - the president of Marian Banas sitting there, applauding the Prime Minister standing up. Every day new information appears, as his co-workers robbed, cheating on VAT, Polish pensioners, patients and disabled people. Prime Minister Morawiecki may say that he created prosperity and Poles in the Islands are already packing suitcases to come back here. And what is the situation, High Izbo? In 2018, 414 thousand died. people, most of all since World War II, the collapse of health services, armagedon to the SOR and record levels of extreme poverty. There's 5.4% of it. (Bell) Poles. Shame, Prime Minister, for lying. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! In your speech, you said that children are untouchable, that whoever raises an ideological hand to them, here you added, I thought you were gonna chop it off, and it turns out you're just about to start a war. What about those who raise their hands on them in a literal sense, beat them, abuse them, torture them, kill them, starve them, rape them? According to the reports of the Foundation dealing with children's rights 41% Polish children suffered family violence, physical violence, and 7% children were sexually abused. What are you going to do with those who are not subjected to ideological violence, because there is no such thing, unless in religious lessons, but are subject to physical, economic, mental violence? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u63	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u64	Thank you very much, Marshal. Prime Minister! You've paid a lot of attention to working with seniors in your exposé. I wanted to ask you, Prime Minister, what happened to the Pension Act on women in 1953, why you withdrew this project in the previous term of the Sejm. Specialists. You've paid a lot of attention to national roads. I wanted to ask if the people of the north Wielkopolski will see the modernization of the Obornik ring road within the national road No 11. You've talked a lot about NGOs. I wanted to ask if the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland could count on stable funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] By the commune.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u65	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, It was very good to hear words about a special prodemographic program in the exposé. This can actually help complement this 500+ family support programme that has been presented so far. We're interested in details of this program. We ask that you present them as soon as possible. This is particularly the issue of support for the third and fourth children. This is shown by all associations of families of many children, that it is crucial to support childhood. It is about giving special facilitations in the case of the third and fourth children. We also want to point out that not only do finance decide about children, but above all culture. Here we could model more in Hungary, where the Fidesz government also implements cultural impact programmes. It's about social campaigns, child-related pro-family campaigns. It seems that this sphere has been completely neglected in the last four years despite some announcements, so we hope that this will also start to change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u68	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, For my part, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for the fact that all these social programmes that started their activities in the last term, your term of office, our term of office, will continue. I am glad and thank you for the announcement that the 13th pension will be a permanent 13th pension for the next years, and for this announcement that I think has been misunderstood, because some breaks have arisen, a 14th pension. Prime Minister, since when will the 14th pension be paid? Because I've heard that someone dares to doubt that it won't be next year, which is 2021. Prime Minister! I'm asking you to answer the question that is being asked publicly, aren't all these social programs in debt to our country? Will the debt not be even greater than the debt of the country that we received after previous governments, those magnificent 8-year-old PO-PSL governments (the bell) when pension cases were just raising the retirement age rather than higher pensions? Thank you. They're in debt more and more.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u69	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have a question about education. You slipped over the subject, bragging about the fact that education subsidies had increased. Well, Prime Minister, in April 2019 local governments, local governments signalled that PLN 6.6 billion was missing for reform of the education system and increase in teachers' salaries. You're offering $2 billion. How about instead of 2 billion from the fund, which you're going to share at your discretion, give the local governments this $6.6 billion for what you've destroyed, for the reconstruction of schools, for the funding of educational institutions, for the salaries of teachers? The municipality of Kolonowskie, 5900 inhabitants, the district of Strzelecki, indicates that in 2019 she received information about subsidies for 2020. She's gonna miss $730,000. zł, i.e. seven times more than in 2015 [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will you say to the students, teachers and parents of this particular community? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Prime Minister, As a few days' minister of sport, you have raised a few important points in your speech. It is true that sport combines, sport is important, beyond political divisions it can be done. First question: How will the government support Kraków and Małopolska in the organisation of European Games? Second question. You said there were 6,000. sports facilities. They were not created from the state budget, but from the funds of local governments and the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture, which was created just in the time of the Left. The second fund, which also works perfectly, namely the Fund for Extracurricular Activities, was also created in the time of the Left. I would like us to look for solutions, further sources of non-budget funding for sport, especially for sport of children and young people, because one of the articles of the Constitution says that public authorities support the development of physical culture, especially among children and young people. That's the kind of cooperation you can count on in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In August, you announced drought aid to farmers of 1 000. zł for 1 ha. Somehow I can't find those who got this kind of help, and already in October the others are waiting for this help, because not only $1,000, but even those 125 zlotys for 1 ha didn't get it. I asked the Minister of Agriculture a month ago, which are municipalities, because supposedly farmers don't get drought aid because the municipalities don't file protocols. $1,000. municipalities, approx. 1 000. municipalities. I asked the minister at the interview, I didn't get an answer. I would like the Prime Minister to commit the Minister of Agriculture because I have repeated the interpellation. I want to know which municipalities, which mayor makes it impossible for farmers to get help and which voivods send back the protocols, which also makes it impossible for them to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u75	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. There's no envoy. Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr... You're an MP, he's coming. Is it? There it is. Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u76	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Health is our common social value, our common treasure. So you cannot, in an unfair, unethical, hypocritical manner, depreciate this value, as this is done by total opposition. What have the Law and Justice done in the field of health care? A successful, statutory increase in healthcare expenditure to 6% GDP. Blocking the dramatic transformation of hospitals into companies. Practically eliminating queues for cataract surgery and seriously shortening queues to endoprotesoplastics. Excellent improvement in line for imaging diagnostics, CT scans and MRIs. Refund of innovative medicines for many cancers and many other diseases. Medications are free for 75+ seniors. Mechanical Trombectomy Program, i.e. a breakthrough method for the treatment of ischaemic strokes. Fixed flat-rate correction in a network of hospitals providing a graphical sense of health security in each district. Patriotic bonus for resident doctors. Question, Prime Minister: (The bell) How many modern medicines for breast cancer treatment were there in 2014, and how many are there now? What kind of care will the Prime Minister now have for people, patients who have breast cancer? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u78	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I regret to say that today's exposé was like bad stew: very much water, very little content. We have not heard anything about your preparation for economic slowdown. That means you don't have an idea for this difficult time. You ignored the basic fact that prosperity comes from work, not from benefits. Today, not a single good word has been heard by businessmen, workers, those who are active. Only the announcement of new taxes. What if it isn't? You weren't listening. Finally, the regional theme, which, as in the lens, shows problems in infrastructure: the Beskidska Integration Road. You guaranteed four years ago that there would be funds to build this road, and you haven't done anything about it in four years. Please answer the question in concrete terms: Will the government return to the preparation of the work, to the construction of the Beskydy Integration Way? In line with the 2016 government's promise (the bell) will there be funds for the construction of this road and the construction will begin in the perspective of 4 years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You said today, and I quote: the word we once gave is a sacred word. Well, if it's so sacred, tell me what you've done for two years on the subject you spoke of two years ago. You said you'd handle violence against women, isolate the perpetrator from the victim. You didn't do anything. I also gave you this publication of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights two years ago. You got it from me. You promised me you'd take care of it, too. How do you take you seriously if you just lied to us and didn't do anything about it? And the second point I agree with. You said children are untouchable. Yes, children are untouchable and nothing should be wrong with these children. And I'm also saying this as a mother who has three sons. Three or three? So my question is, what did you do? How many bishops have you punished hiding paedophile priests who have committed violence against children? How many? How many bishops are tried? How many priests are in prison? I would ask (the bell) for a written reply from the Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u82	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I would like to ask you about energy transformation issues. You spoke to the Prime Minister in your speech about a significant paradigm shift towards renewable energy sources, prosumerism and all these new technologies that will allow for a significant change in the energy generation sector. But the specific question is about cogeneration. Cogeneration, and especially Polish heating, has great potential, because according to information it is able to produce up to 10 thousand. MW of flexible energy, which would be an important complement to renewable energy sources. Question: "Will this sector be supported?" I have a second question. There are large European projects, such as the circular economy - it requires implementation, you only talked about plastics - but also a new concept on green governance. Do we foresee in the Polish programme, the Polish government, financing this green order? 'Cause for example... What is the Polish view? What could it be financed from at European level? We as PSL say (the bell) that it could be British money, under the conditions of Britain's exit, because access to the market will be occupied by certain money that the UK will have to contribute to the European budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u83	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Three questions. Will your government carry out the construction of professional centres of naprotechnology in every voivodship? That's question one. The family is an archbishop's value - bravo, Prime Minister, a beautiful formulation. Children under protection - also beautiful. Prime Minister, will your government fight to ban eugenic abortion in Poland, or will it be consistent in PiS hypocrisy in this matter? And one last thing. How does the Prime Minister intend to tackle the political problem of local authorities' influence on police action? I mean especially events in Wroclaw. It was found in this room that the marches of independence are safe and peaceful in Poland under the rule of the PiS. Prime Minister, unfortunately, the attitude of the Polish police in Wroclaw raises some doubts, especially the use of telescopic batons to put the father who had a 4-year-old son on his hands. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u85	You're welcome. Mr Paweł Chezernaker, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Today you presented a very ambitious programme of development of Poland, a continuation of the direction which has been being pursued by the Government of Law and Justice for 4 years. In 2015, the politicians of today's opposition did not imagine the implementation of many programs that are being implemented by the government. One such programme is the largest ever local road financing programme, the Self-Government Road Fund. Within the framework of this programme this year, all applications submitted by local government in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship were co-financed. Thanks to these measures, the region from which I am a Member, the Central Pomerania, has a chance to finally become a region that is not excluded by communication. It was possible to refurbished roads for which people, inhabitants of the region had waited for many years. Prime Minister, I have a question: How many kilometres will the road be able to be renovated in the next term of office? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u87	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u88	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You spoke a lot about credibility, but I think that unfortunately Poles watching this debate did not see this symbol, which is when you spoke here, sitting next to you and watching this debate President Banas, President of the Supreme Chamber of Control. This president, who is not on public television because there is no public television anymore, but PiS TV told us how to avoid paying taxes, and he created a VAT mafia in the Ministry of Finance. This is your prime minister's responsibility. But as a Member of the Szamotulski County, I also wanted to ask about the specific commitments that the Prime Minister presented during his visit to Wronki. The Prime Minister is now also the Minister of Sport and you have stated that 20 million will be at the training centre in Wronki for Lech Poznań. When exactly can you expect that money? And which (The Bell) of the city of Wielkopolska can count on the construction of bypasses? I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Trela, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is in the company of two parliamentarians from Łódź, because I want to say a few sentences about Łódź or on the example of Łódź. You were kind to say about education that there will be a higher educational subsidy, but you did not tell the Prime Minister how much money the local governments are adding to the Polish school today. I will give you this information: 20 billion PLN each year local governments add to what the government should do to make the Polish school work. So I would like to ask you how and how much money will be spent on teacher increases, how much these increases will amount to from 1 January and how much will have to be added to these increases by our Polish local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You mentioned that you would create a network of breast Cancer Unit centers in Poland. After all, in Poland already there are 10 such centres, the first one was created in 2014, they are internationally certified, the next ones were created from local resources, also from European projects such as, among others, European projects. in Łódź. I have a question of why you present this in your exposé as an author's project, since we know that the establishment of a network of Breast Cancer Unit centres is a European requirement, the European Union obliges us to do so. And the second question - about the sport you mentioned in your exposé only once, and it's a joke. I think the sports community will remember it properly. I have a question about the Physical Culture Development Fund: Do you, as Minister of Sport, intend to return to the regional governments this fund, which was centralised in your previous term of office by your government? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u93	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Only one thing you said about Polish and Polish people on the Kresów. However, we are a nation, one nation outside the borders, we are responsible for all Poles around the world. Could you and your government, however, put more emphasis on the subject and not put international relations above the welfare of our fellow countrymen, as in the case of Lithuania? And the second question, concerning the JUST Act 447 on unjustified Jewish claims. Could the Polish government take a clear stand on this matter and on the international stage say that we do not agree to such a law that is against the Polish national interest? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u95	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Undoubtedly, one of our country's biggest problems is bureaucracy, which makes it impossible or very difficult for citizens, businesses, to deal with various matters in offices, in those offices under government, public administration or under special administration. Very often, citizens face a situation where the rules are unclear, inconsistent and questionable. I think that this is one of the elements that makes it very difficult or difficult to develop our country, but also individual local governments, cities, municipalities, voivodships. I think cutting red tape should be one of our government's priorities. Therefore, I have a question for you, Prime Minister, which government plans to implement the instruments and take measures to reduce bureaucracy and speed things up in the Polish public administration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u97	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you where this balanced budget, which your government supposedly submitted in September in the Sejm. Why didn't you tell the voters in the election campaign that he was like a check without covering and really at the start of a new term, the ninth term of office of the Sejm, you're gonna jump on the money of Poles and Poles? You were convinced today that you were lowering taxes and taxes. Then why do you start your ninth term with an increase in excise duty, an increase in fuel levy - as we hear - or an increase in the ZUS for self-employed people, which are already included in the budget? You said you healed public finances. Then why are you looting money from OFE? You really don't have to write anything into the constitution as you follow certain standards and laws. So why are you looting funds from funds that would improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, or dismantle the Demographic Reserve Fund that was supposed to serve us in the skinny years rather than the fat ones? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister spoke very beautifully about the challenges of modern capitalism, about the taxation of large corporations, about the elimination of tax havens. Really, Prime Minister, honey for my left heart. Hence the question: Why, instead of taxing these big corporations, as the Prime Minister said, now at the last moment, desperately looking for funds to patch up the budget, are you reaching into the pocket of the weakest, you want to take the disabled? Why did the Government of Law and Justice chicken out and withdraw from the introduction of a digital tax despite its inclusion in the multiannual plan? Why did we hear about this decision, not from the Polish government, but from the Deputy Prime Minister of the United States? The United States doesn't have a prime minister. In this context, stories of a strong, sovereign state fall apart like a house of cards. Why have you chickened out from big corporations, and you're brave only to the weakest, to the disabled (the bell) and to their pockets? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u101	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u102	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I am glad that you have spent so much time in renewable energy, but I would like to say that it has already been done, Prime Minister. You were misled for several years because there was a renewable energy law, there was a prosumer law, there was a proxy, there were fixed prices of 75 gr per kWh, but your predecessor and her surroundings were doing everything they could to destroy it. In December 2015, you blocked everything. The world has gone forward. You said the world was running away fast. These four years aren't four years, it's been eight years and today we're eight years behind. What do you mean? 4 years. It's a good thing you're noticing it right now, but why would you do that? You weren't listening. 4 years. Prime Minister! The Minister of Energy said from this stand that we have too much renewable energy. And he was right. Was he right? He was right, there you go. But the Prime Minister says the opposite, so you had to listen to what we said here, and you were deliberately doing everything you could to block renewable energy. What's with the whining today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u103	Thank you. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u104	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Today, a lot of wise words came from this speaker, some less. There was also a lot of talk today about what security is. There was talk of how we should secure our country, and I'm interested in one thing right now. And I'm not interested in what has been said before, but I'm interested in your political will for the future. Tell me. Today in the European Union is one of the arms directives that allows it to be owned. Poland has further tightened these rules by implementing this directive. We, as the Confederation, are quite interested in reviewing these provisions. Is there a political will on the government's side to re-sit on the arms and ammunition bill and see if it can be simplified? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u105	Please, Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In your exposé, you spoke a lot, Prime Minister, about normality, about the normality that your government restored in the previous term. I'm talking about restoring normality in the medical rescue system, bringing this rescue state to life. At the end of the term, rescuers are also happy with the new ambulances that reach Złoczew, Wieruszów, Wieruszów. However, there are still a lot of problems, many of them. One of them is a shortage of medical staff, a deficit, a shortage of staff, which is the result of the long-standing negligence of the predecessors, and even the consent of young doctors to travel abroad. These are particularly noticeable shortcomings in district hospitals today. One way that can reverse this trend in the long term (The Bell) is to increase the number of doctors. Prime Minister, what were the admission limits for medical studies in 2009, 2013 and 2018 and what would they be in the following years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u107	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! During the exposé, you stated to the Prime Minister that politics is a promise. I think if you did, you'd be history as one of the most talented leaders. Of course, I disagree with you. I believe that there is no policy without responsibility for the consequences. [[Applause]] Therefore, I ask about the further fate of the Gdynia shipyard Nauta, which before the so-called. the reconstruction of the shipbuilding industry was profitable, while the past year ended with a loss of more than PLN 50 million and struggles for life with difficulty. What are you going to do to save this important shipyard for our economy? I also ask about the promises made before the elections concerning the construction of the Red Way in Gdynia, absolutely crucial to the development of our port. Will and when will work begin? Please specify the time limits and reply in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u109	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u110	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Law and Justice change the dignity of work through all cases. The Prime Minister spoke so beautifully about Poles and Poles who are to return to the country. I am a Member of one of the most remote areas - Opole, so I know how urgent this action is. However, what is the situation in Poland? According to Eurostat's 2018 survey, 43% young people aged 25 and 34 still live with their parents. The salaries offered to young workers rarely go beyond the lowest wage. 20% The income of young people aged 20 and 25 comes from garbage contracts. Studies show that young people choose to emigrate due to lack of housing, lack of stable work and lack of security. A lot has been said about the failure of the apartment+ programme, so let me move on to the next question. In 2015, the Council The PiS has announced the liquidation of the trash contracts. When is the government going to keep that promise? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the last four years, you've had a majority in the Seym, the president, the government. If you're waiting for a special invitation, please. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. There isn't. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u112	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, I would like to point out that Mr Zandberg here, from this speaker, said that both Catholics, atheists and Muslims live in Poland, etc. I would like to point out that Catholics, atheists and Muslim women also live in Poland. [[Applause]] Bravo! I would ask that these groups should not be excluded in future speeches. On the other hand, quite seriously, this exposé of the Prime Minister did not surprise. All Poles learned that the government wants our good and thus found out why we have less and less good. On the other hand, I have a specific question. Prime Minister, you said you would increase your excise duty on alcohol allegedly because you want to fight alcohol addiction. So my question is: Since when does alcohol sold in bars, because this is the effect of increasing excise duty on alcohol, make it less addictive? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u113	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today we listened to the Prime Minister's exposé with great optimism and hope supported by the effective and credible work of the entire government that you were leading. And I would like to refer here to the statements of the parliamentarians from the opposition, who had a lot to say... It's time for questions. ...about fighting smog, about clean air. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a record-breaking lot of money. Is it true, Prime Minister, that the record-breaking money for fighting smog has been spent in our country? This amount is over PLN 100 billion. By now, about PLN 2 billion has been spent, and 100,000 will be signed. agreements. Finally, there is an interest in clean air and I believe that 2020 will be groundbreaking and that these agreements will be 300,000. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u115	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Joński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u116	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Prime Minister! You've been talking a long time, but I'm gonna ask you what you're not talking about. First of all, I would like to ask you about inflation. 3.5%. Poles ask what the government's idea is that inflation should not be so galloping. The same applies, of course, to the fact that it relates to the inflation of the cost. That's also the question. The next question is, and I'm asking you, please, for a specific answer, about the public debts of the zoos. That's almost PLN 14 billion. People are already asking about the apartment+. Although you promised a decade ago, exactly a decade ago, 3 million apartments, less than 1,000 apartments were built. And the last question concerns the Ministry of Environmental Protection. You've divided them into two ministries. You didn't say anything today, you didn't say anything about garbage mafias that settled in Poland and bring garbage from all over the world to Poland, unfortunately also to the Łódź voivodship. And the biggest dump like this is in Zgierz in Borut. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question is, when will the government take care of this dump? When's he gonna clean this up? And I'm asking for a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u118	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you about the fate of the bill you voted for on 16 December 2016. It entered into force in October 2017. So far, it has cost us 59 deaths because so many people have died as a result of this bill. We're talking about the bill on the officers' pension supply. She touched 50,000. people, including widows and orphans. Among the causes of death are suicides, there are strokes of blood into the brain, there are heart attacks. The Federation of Uniform Service Associations of the Republic of Poland keeps a list of all these deaths. I wanted to ask you, Prime Minister - I know it wasn't your government, it was Mrs. Beata Szydło's government that introduced this bill, but I wanted to ask you if you were going to do something about it. Because it should not be so in the state of law that collective responsibility applies and takes away the rights acquired to officers who served Poland bravely. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u119	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u120	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Volunteer firefighters, firefighters from volunteer firefighters are undoubtedly the pride of Polish firefighters. After all, not only do they put out fires, they help victims of accidents, but in small towns they fulfil another important role. Well, voluntary firefighters are a pillar of cultural, sporting and social life, you might say. Appreciation of this activity, which other countries envy us, is not only the financing of equipment, training, but also in our view should be a kind of thank-you, a symbolic even congratulations to retired firefighters. During the last term of office, both PSL and Kukiz15 submitted appropriate draft laws. Unfortunately, these laws were not given a run. But with over 200,000. Such a citizens' project has also been signed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the question of the government's position, of the Prime Minister's position on the project on the additions to firefighters' pensions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u122	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! During your exposé, you asked yourself whether you acted for the whole society. And unfortunately, I have to say no. I'm the person who, before she got here, ran her own business all her life. Those who, like myself, had a one-man business activity have received from your government such a small charity in the form of a 1-point reduction in income tax. But we also got a kick in the form of an increase in contributions to the Social Security Office, from year to year. Here someone calculated that it was 400 PLN during your reign. This is, of course, the result of artificially increasing the lowest national level, which then affects the average, and this has a statutory impact on the Social Security Office. The question is mine. First: What are you going to do for those people who run a one-man business, like me, like many young people? And the second case, you didn't introduce the lowest tax-free amount of 8,000. zł, just as President Andrzej Duda suggested. The Confederation today (The Bell) proposed - this is a project by Sławomir Mentzen, our economist - the introduction of a tax-free amount of 31 thousand. zł, 12 times the lowest national. Will you support this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u123	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Government of Law and Justice is characterized by care for Polish school, Polish teacher, Polish student and Polish parent. We do not close schools, we do not fire teachers, we do not leave without financial help schools to create the right conditions for learning, to work so as to create a modern school. When we took responsibility for Polish schools, it was only 38% Junior high school had the studios. Among the many activities providing real aid to schools, I will mention two: the Active Table for which the government has allocated 279 million in the years 2017 to 2019, and funding for school laboratories, natural workshops under the special reserve, 0.4% the educational part of the general subsidy. The creation of the Investment Fund in the School (Bell) is a continuation of the efforts to create a modern school. When, Prime Minister, will this fund be created and what funds will be allocated to it? Thank you. [[Applause]] Einstein didn't have one.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u125	Thank you very much, Member. [[Applause]] Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For 4 years the government has not decided on further development of the Eastern Wielkopolska oil and energy industry. This caused that, as residents, local government officials, politicians have been asking the government for several years to create a special compensation programme for Eastern Wielkopolska, following the example of the programme for Silesia. Hence the question: Will the next four years give you time to make a strategic decision on how to make the transition in the region and be a fair transformation? But it takes a decision. Finally, make a specific decision about this case. I would also like the government to confirm that it will support our efforts in Brussels, in the European Commission, so that the Eastern Wielkopolska is on the so-called. a carbon-based platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u127	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Two specific questions. First on education subsidies for local governments: When local governments receive a 100% education subsidy actually incurred costs, because the current subsidy covers only 60% of the demand? It can't be that locals almost 10%. its budget in cities of up to 100,000. they spent on supplementing this missing amount. Please also remember the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and art. 70. The second question concerns renewable energy sources and the government's programme, my current. Do you, as Prime Minister of the Government, provide for an increase in the resources earmarked for this purpose so that those benefiting from the programme can receive more favourable conditions, as these installations cost on average (the bell) from 20,000. up to 30,000, and the cut in funding is at 5 000. zł, what's just a dozen percent compensation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u129	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Two questions. Dear Prime Minister, in your exposé, you have stated that you are fulfilling all your obligations and that we are particularly close to the health of all citizens. I therefore ask, Prime Minister, with great concern, that statistics show that more and more young women are suffering from malignant tumours, breast cancer and cervical cancer, the amount your government intends to allocate to health prevention associated with the promotion of early detection of malignant cancers, breast cancer and cervix in women aged 35 years old. You all know that a woman is the backbone of a family, and her health is the future and health of this family. That's one question. And second question. Referring to the issues raised regarding the construction of local roads and the 100 bypasses programme, I would like to ask specifically whether there will be room for two bypasses: the Liman ring road and the Miszana Lower ring road. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u131	Thank you very much. The next question is asked by Mr Sosnierz, the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u132	I was amazed to hear you say that you were going to reform the Union from the inside, that you would save Europe. I'm afraid this is the height of optimism greater than when a couple of homosexuals buy a baby carriage. Because I do not know that your colleagues in the European Parliament are not telling you that we have nothing to say there, we are voted out on every matter that we do not count at all. The direction of the European Union's march has long been decided, and last year the European Commission clearly explained to your government that we are no longer an independent country. One night, Mrs. Gersdorf, who was supposed to be a private person, became president of the Supreme Court again. So it's already been explained to us without one soldier. Let me remind you that your colleagues, your party is in favour of building a European army, so what happens when the Union becomes militarized and has its own army? So if you're talking about how you want to reform the European Union, I'm asking you what tools and means of pressure you want to use to reform the Union from the inside. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u133	Thank you very much. Another question. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u134	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! In recent times, extremely common news of the bravado and the lack of responsibility of drivers causing fatal pedestrian accidents has come to our attention. Dogs die in places where they should be safest: on pedestrian crossings. The lack of imagination of drivers, excessive belief in their own skills and, above all, disregard for traffic regulations are the cause of human tragedies and family dramas. Urgent changes to legislation are needed to ensure that pedestrian safety is improved. This is what the Prime Minister said in today's exposé. Prime Minister, how quickly will work on changes to the rules be undertaken and will a provision on the absolute priority of pedestrians still before pedestrian crossings be introduced so as to force drivers to be extraordinarily careful? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u136	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Many general promises have been made in the stream of your wonderful speeches. These general statements, promises know very well Poles and do not believe you, so they call me and ask for specifics. That is why I am asking, Minister, what will you do to get the children's unit in Hawk-Zdroj opened in May and closed immediately after the election to return to the disposal of unhealthy children and save their lives and health. What will you do to prevent the closure of the surgical unit from happening again at the hospital in Wodzisław Śląski, as has been the case so far? You were talking about the railroad. The people of Jastrzębie-Zdrój, a 90-thousand-dollar city on the county's rights, ask you when you will lead to the start of passenger transport in this city, the city on the county's rights. The inhabitants of Wodzisław Śląski ask if it's true that Intercity will shut them down because they are scared and written about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do you say to the inhabitants of Rybnik, Wodzisława, Pszczyna, where there is the greatest smog? Thank you very much, sir. How do you want to save their health and their lives? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u137	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u138	Prime Minister! In 2017, you promised clean air in your exposé. Unfortunately, nothing has changed since then. Still... It's worse. It's changed. I'll get to the facts. Every year, over 45,000. people die from smog. Of the 103 billion you planned for the 10-year clean air programme, less than 1 billion were spent. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] How do you know that? How do you count it? Over 900,000 are accepted, that's less than 1%. At this rate, this program will not last 10 years, but 100 years. During that time, over the course of 100 years, we'll all be dead before the PiS fulfills its electoral promises. I don't want any more promises, which is why I ask you, Prime Minister: What exactly are you going to do this year to fix the Clean Air programme, and where are you going to get the money for it (the bell) when the European Union said it wouldn't give a single euro to replace one of the coal kilns with another coal furnace? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u139	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Krajewski, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u140	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, I have a question: How are you going to help Bielmlek's dairy plant, on the verge of bankruptcy, which has been managed by a representative of your government, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk? Before the election, we heard there'd be help. Suppliers and suppliers haven't received money for milk delivered for 3 months and are wondering what's going to happen next. You are happy to speak before the elections, how you love, support the Polish, Podlasie village, and after the elections you no longer remember it. I sent an open letter to the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, but he did not want to write back until today. The letter was sent on August 12th. You're talking about support, about help, you're bragging about more money. What's next? I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL in the construction of roads, national highways appeared a total mess, chaos, dylance. Lie! Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Minister Nowak, who fled to Ukraine, from where they chased him because he could not build roads in Ukraine. The culmination of your success is the breaking viaduct near Łódź on A1. Prime Minister, my question is how you intend to fight the delays in the construction of roads and the situation of subcontractors. Not building anything. Several hundred companies fell during the government of PO and PSL because they did not receive any help from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u143	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna ask you about unfulfilled promises, because that's what's been asked. However, I must ask about the future and the most important areas for the economy and prosperity of Poles. First of all, what is the government going to do in the fight against a demographic disaster? According to the United Nations forecasts, Poland's population will fall from 38 million to 24 million in this century. Society is getting old and will not do without a negative impact on the economy and the pension system. Secondly, despite many social programmes in Poland, the number of people living in extreme poverty, i.e. at the minimum level of existence, has increased. In 2018, it was 5.4 and the year before it was 4.3. Is the government going to do something about it? Third, I'm asking for investment. You announced an increase from 20 to 25% at the beginning of your action. GDP, as usual, dropped to 18%. Prime Minister, it's better said, it's getting worse (the bell), but just do something for Poland... Thank you. ...because you're gonna go down in history as Mateusz the liar. It's too late. That story's already written down.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u145	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u146	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You spoke in your exposé about security and development, actually more was said by the president, but I am asking you a question. In 2017, Minister Macierewicz moved command 16. Pomeranian Mechanized Division from Elbląg near Warsaw, making a harmful decision for the Polish army, hurting Elbląg and its inhabitants. The Polish Army is significantly related to the development of Elbląg and its surroundings and there are most units of this division. Are you going to make amends to the people of Elbląg and reverse the consequences of a bad decision by restoring Elbląg's command? Such a possibility was discussed by your voivode during the election campaign. This decision will certainly affect the development and safety of Elbląg land and the entire region. Here's another topic. You've also said a lot about normality that a normal family is a man and a woman. What about families with only one parent, one parent (The Bell) taking care of children? What support do you provide for independent parents, mothers and foster families? Please respond in writing. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u147	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u148	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, in your speech, you spoke of enlightenment. In fact, as a long-term self-government officer, I know that education today is one of the most important problems facing local governments. Prime Minister, I call on you to do one thing: let the government finally take responsibility for paying teachers on its back. He's actually looking into someone's pockets and he's pulling money out of them, but it's indecent. Prime Minister! There's 15,000 in the West Pomerania. km of local roads. Today, 1 km of the local road is, ladies and gentlemen, not as it used to be, 700.800 thousand. zł. This is already PLN 1.5 million. In Western Pomerania this is 25 billion PLN. How long, Prime Minister, are we going to build these local roads, 40 years? A specific programme is needed, a national programme for the reconstruction of local roads. I also have a question about the monuments. Prime Minister, are these monuments west of the Vistula River worse? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will we have to wait a long time in the Pomeranian Stone to rebuild the cathedral? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u149	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Przemysław Czarnek, Law and Justice, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u150	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Before I ask you a question, I'm going to say that what you said is insolence, because the amount of money spent on municipal and district roads... In this term of office, these measures are seven times more than in your governments. And how much did you build? You're talking about other situations... I'll tell you what. The Prime Minister has already been straightened out. Don't go that way. Prime Minister! In Dorohusk, Lublin, we have the largest freight border crossing in the east of the European Union. That's where 50% crossed the border. goods east and east to the European Union. Our predecessors tragically neglected this passage. As part of the construction of the S12, together with the General Directorate, we have prepared a project for the construction of a new freight terminal in Okopy, 2 kilometres before the swamps to reduce costs. My question is: Will the Prime Minister's government guarantee the means for this terminal to be created in a perspective of 4 and 5 years in order to further seal the tax system in Poland? Second question. Can the Oncology Centre of Lublin Land Oncology also count on an increase in investments in (Dawn) equipment that is needed in a newly developed building? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u151	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u152	Przemek's fine. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! In your exposé, you published slogans about support for micro-entrepreneurs and passwords about women's invisible work. This work is not visible primarily to the Social Insurance Institution, which, looking for money, massaged this year attacked mothers conducting business activities, controlling the leading micro-enterprises of mothers who are e.g. at 8 and 9 months pregnant as if the main objective of the establishment and controlling were to undermine the right of pregnant women and young mothers to L4. The suspension, undermining this year's payment of the benefit by the Social Security Office informs, among others. numerous media and social movement women on DG versus ZUS. I will be obliged to reply in writing on administrative control procedures in 2019 conducted by the Social Security Office in the case of women engaged in economic activity, in particular pregnant women and mothers, compared to the last five years. What are you going to do to stop the ZUS hunting young mothers and pregnant women who (The Bell) dared to conduct business activity in Poland? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u153	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Władysław Dajczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u154	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Prime Minister, in your exposé you mentioned a very important, perhaps strategic topic for the future of our homeland - demography. You were talking about mechanisms that would make it easier for young couples to decide whether to have children. This often involves the possibility of combining motherhood back to work. It fits perfectly into the children's care programme under the age of 3. I had the opportunity, Prime Minister, as a Lubuskie voivode to pass over PLN 30 million to local governments in our voivodship. For this reason, more than 1,300 childcare facilities have been created for such children. In comparison for our predecessors, coalition of Civic Platform and PSL, in our voivodeship - less than PLN 3 million and only 180 seats. They didn't appreciate the problem at all. The local governments continue to report a very high interest in this programme, hence my question (Ring): Prime Minister, will the next budget have a similar level of co-financing for this programme? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u155	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! You said that your government's priority was the housing+ programme, but you're denying it with your actions. You transfer this program, like an unwanted child, first from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Prime Minister's firm, then to the Ministry of Investment, and now to the Ministry of Development, which means no one can realize it. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, I wanted to say that you announced ub in April. I think you're gonna build $40,000. apartments. What's the truth? Less than 900 apartments built, 900 apartments currently designed and implemented. Unless you're counting on $36,000. apartments that are at the stage of design and economic analysis. The National Property Resource paid back 125 million last year, and this year it will pay back another 50 million. So I ask you, what are you doing, who is going to do it? The housing+ programme was designed by the state for medium-sized and large cities. What's the program for small towns? For them (the bell) you have prepared nothing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u157	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much - and the Poles thank - for the exposé that has been given, which really refers to the facts, to what the government has accomplished, and contains a vision for the future. I am also pleased that the continuation of the good change will go further with regard to the policies taken by the Prime Minister as well as by the government. I'd like to point a lot here... There have already been words about ecology, but there is a very important issue of reconciling the share of coal and RES in the energy mix. From the Prime Minister's statement, I read this program for ecology three times. E - economy, ecology and energy. This is a very important strategy that will develop Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will paraphrase the Prime Minister's words and say this: There is no agreement for ideological revolutions, but there is agreement... Thank you, Member. ...for good ecological solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u159	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u160	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You asked for a vote of confidence, but trust is built on actions, not words. So let's compare what your announcements and their effects look like. This year, 100,000 were to be put into service. housing under the government's housing+ programme. How much was given back? Only 1%. Young people have lost their chance at their own M, and this is the big failure of this government. Secondly, you promised to build electric cars. Nobody's doing it yet, and they probably won't do it soon, so the second key project of this government turned out to be a failure. And, what's important, shipyards. You announced the construction of ferries by state shipyards, you announced the Batory programme. Instead of Batory, we have a program: sorry Batory. There's nothing going on out there, wind hula. As a Member of the Western Pomerania, I invite you. Why don't you come to Szczecin and see how the keel rusts, that piece of sheet metal that you were proudly knocking on over two and a half years ago. Instead of a vote of confidence... Thank you very much, sir. ...there's a vote of distrust for lack of effect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u161	Thank you, sir. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You said today that politics is a promise of a better future. Unfortunately, in your case, this is a very often uncoverable promise. You promised me $1,000 today. zero-emission schools. That's a really great idea. The question remains whether you will come to this idea with determination to deliver on the promise of the previous term of office, the replacement of 3 million old boilers, the smog of which kills almost 50,000 every year. Poles and Poles. The Clean Air programme you announced was implemented by your government in only 1%. Do we expect that from the promise of 1000 zero-emission schools the last of such schools 10? You promise Polish schools modernization, solariums, interactive plates, but you forget that the school is primarily people. That's, among other things. teachers whose education policies forced them to leave the profession. Thanks to you, even a dozen thousand teachers are missing in Polish schools today. Those who have stayed work in many cases for minimum wage, and that's only because I'm asking for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister! I didn't hear in your exposé how you wanted to attract young teachers to your profession. Thank you very much, Member. How do you want to keep the best from quitting? I'd like a written reply. A better future without good education just won't be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u163	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, A farmer is a difficult profession. A workshop under the sky. Over the last two seasons of vegetation, there's been a drought in the last two years. Will aid to farmers be maintained if adverse weather conditions occur in subsequent years? Will it be at the same level and in the same way granted? Farmers receive support and protection from the Minister of Agriculture, support for raining plantations, construction of retention tanks, water tanks, so-called. A little retention. These are good programs. All farmers hope that this will continue. Key question: How does the government intend to fight the effects of drought in order to reduce adverse weather phenomena and at the same time to counteract price increases, mainly fruit and vegetables? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In your exposé you have devoted little space to investments, but in Poland we have achieved the lowest level of investment for your government for 25 years. Lie! If you want to build 9,000. One kilometer of railroads, when you and your government aren't handling the investment today? This is a list of 28 delayed rail investments. How would you like to invest in roads as soon as 10 contracts were terminated this year? Your officials have not yet read that there is a European TEN-T regulation in Poland. This regulation provides for the construction of the Y project, which is in the core network. Will you lead them to read these regulations? Would you like to implement the law in force in the European Union? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This regulation also refers to the S74 expressway between Łódź and Tomaszów Mazowiecki. And what about the S12 expressway? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u167	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u168	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! Prime Minister! My question concerns the appointment of Mr Piotr Gliński as Minister of Culture and National Heritage. This nomination raises serious concerns in various international environments, as well as among people of culture. The best minister. I remind you that Minister Gliński has led to a deterioration of our relations with Jewish and American environments in connection with the long-standing scandal around the Polin Museum. He has been refusing to appoint Professor Dariusz Stoli as Director for many months, who won the contest announced by Minister Gliński. In general, Minister Gliński's personal policy in the most important cultural institutions raises the greatest concern. Museum directors, independent persons are exchanged for mediocre, passive, but faithful persons. All those decisions that remind me of... Among other things, recently the Centre for Contemporary Art Ujazdowski Castle experienced the exchange of Małgorzata Ludwisiak. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister! Does the appointment of Minister of Gliński mean that you gave him permission to continue his cultural and historical policy in its controversial form? Thank you very much, Member. Is there any way to correct this policy? I'm calling for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u169	Mr Richard Bartosik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u170	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, The Government of Law and Justice invests in the family, invests in the youngest generation and therefore introduces many reforms serving Polish families. I would like to ask what the modernisation fund will look like. How much will the funds of the fund support our local governments, especially in smaller towns and districts? And how much will this fund be created? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The exposé that we have heard today, I have the impression, could also be about a lot of things that you have not been able to do. I recall that, a year ago, after putting into service the Radom ring road present in this room, the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, a member of your government, together with other parliamentarians of Law and Justice, promised 20 million at a press conference to renovate the national road no. 7 within the city limits. Of course, as the vice president of the day, I sent the right proposals. The information presented at this conference was that it was all settled. The answer, of course, was negative. That's why I'd like to know from you if you're planning to use such funds for the renovation of Route 7 in Radom. Prime Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Several months ago, at a conference in Pawns, you informed me that an old gunpowder plant in Pawns would be being expanded. Thank you very much. But do you also consider that there is 350 t of old nitrocellulose buried there and, frankly, it is a bomb placed under Polish families? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u173	20 seconds later. Thank you very much. Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u174	High Izbo! Prime Minister! Why is the Minister of Culture so afraid of independent artists and independent cultural managers emerging in competitions? As my colleague said, Professor Stola of Polin still remains uncalled for. On the other hand, you have no problem with the director of Ujazdowski Castle, without the competition of Piotr Bernatowicz. Did it happen as a reward for the fact that in the gallery Arsenal in Poznań he promoted a poster with the slogan: You are mean, ugly and lazy - become a feminist. You only talked about culture in a national context. Fortunately, the world and Europe note that we have transnational creators. Not long ago, even Nobel hit us. When will the ministers of education and culture begin to draw on the wisdom and sensitivity of Olga Tokarczuk? When will Olga Tokarczuk be invited to the Sejm so that we can hear what he has to say to us? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Probably never. But why don't you at least send your friends with flowers to the airport? Thank you very much, Member. After all, you have a specialist in this type of event. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! The Government of Law and Justice has introduced many good regulations concerning Polish entrepreneurship, which are compacted both in the constitution for business and in other laws. I'll give you some. Since January this year. reduced CIT tax for small and medium-sized companies with 15% up to 9%. From 1 October this year. PIT was reduced from 18% to 17%. Four times, as up to EUR 2 million, the revenue limit for companies to settle on a lump sum basis will be increased in 2020. In 2019 taxpayers may make a single depreciation write-off of up to 50,000. Euros. As of January 2020, a small CSO will benefit more than a quarter of small companies. Prime Minister! You announced further support for entrepreneurs in today's exposé. When we get to know the specifics about this support and about (the bell) among others. simplifying tax law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u177	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u178	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Such a first doubt, note: the little disciplined government of yours, everyone split up, you were the only one left. That's a bad sign for a start. But you've talked a lot about security issues, the security of Poles, so I have a question for you: can there be a safe country where special forces allow that the head of NIK has contacts with gangsters and unclear finances? Could there be a safe country where the services allow the Prime Minister to hold a meeting involving neo-Nazis? Could there finally be a safe country in which the VAT-owska Mafia is installed in the Ministry of Finance? These are really questions about elementary political responsibility. Today, Mr Mariusz Kaminski is once again in your government - a person who has not fulfilled his duties, a person who has allowed services in Poland not to work. Under what conditions are you going to benefit, you are going to take out the political consequences of the malfunctioning special forces against the mess that prevails in your subordinate institutions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u179	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u180	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In your exposé, you spoke a lot about increasing the number of daycares and supporting mothers in their return to work, but the "Little+" programme for 2020 does not support existing places in daycare. As a mother, I ask you: Why should we parents pay for nursery more? Over the past four years, the situation regarding daycare has not improved enough for us parents to be able to count on places in public daycare, and without this only private day care is a way out for us. You are happy to reach into our pockets, you are afraid to tax big business, so I would like to get a written reply as to why there will be no subsidised place in daycare and what financial support you are offering for parents of daycare children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u181	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Lichocka, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You spoke in your speech about two great elephants whose elites in Brussels do not see. One elephant symbolizing the lack of income from CIT tax, the other - as a result of the absence of income from PIT tax. We, the government of law and justice, your government... You personally committed yourself to sealing the tax system. And we have successes - successes that we can boast about in Europe. Can these ideas be implemented in Brussels? Can we effectively propose such solutions to the European Commission, so that VAT and CIT collection is better, so that it is not the same as in the governments of POs and PSLs, when theft, the VAT mafia can act freely. It would be good for us to complete this process also at the level of the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u183	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u184	Mrs. Marshalkini! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You were talking about the cultural war, assigning it to the coalition, the opposition. I think I am sure that the person who caused the cultural war in Poland is Jarosław Kaczyński. He's the one who created the anti-LGBT campaign. Let me remind you that the former head of the culture committee, Mrs Elżbieta Kruk, asked the question when Poland would be free from LGBT environments. This is a fascist reflection, ladies and gentlemen. Why does Law and Justice violate human rights? Will your government be violating human rights? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u185	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u186	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Prime Minister! There wasn't much about culture in your speech, and I'm sure that's not surprising. After all, it is your government that fights only for the right perception of culture, sees a threat in women's endings, sees a threat in the work of a Nobel Prize winner, sees a threat in non-heteronormativeness. So must there be situations like Bagatela's Theatre? I would just like to add that in this Krakow theatre, the director molested actresses, and because of bad law they cannot rely on the help of the State Labour Inspection, the director cannot be suspended because the regulations do not allow it, and the trade unions cannot help here. It's a scandal, isn't it? However, it might be worthwhile to lean on the anti-violence convention and start to see the dangers and counter them where they really are. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u187	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. I have a big request, ladies and gentlemen. If you can't use the phrase "marshal," then just skip the part, because I don't feel like a marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Prime Minister, in your exposé, you have set out a very good intention of simplifying the law. Entrepreneurs are to have new, simpler operating rules to reduce bureaucracy and give these companies more opportunity to develop. The right law for entrepreneurs, the simplification of tax law - is a good direction, even expected by them, especially by small companies, which I would describe as the good of our country, because they are most connected with the regions of our homeland. They will not take capital to a tax paradise and will give such important jobs, especially in small towns. Prime Minister, I have a question: How does the government intend to simplify the law and improve the legislative process? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I listened very carefully to your exposé. You said equality, dignity, normality, solidarity. That's right. But how does that apply to people with disabilities? I'd like you to listen to me, Prime Minister. I have two questions and I would like to ask for a written reply. How do you intend to protect people with disabilities from the plundering of the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, de facto by your government? Do you intend, and at what time, to eliminate the income criterion for 500+ for people with disabilities who are incapable of self-existence? Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u191	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, You spoke very much about the great things in your exposé: the great future, the great demographic programme and the great return of Poles to Poland. However, you did not mention other great things that characterize Polish reality, namely the great climate crisis, as well as the great import of coal to Poland, especially from Russia. Do you know, Prime Minister, that Gdansk, from which I come, is today the headquarters of the branches of the largest companies in the world producing Russian coal and that ships with this raw material enter the port of Gdansk every day? Gdansk today became a coal hole in Poland and Europe. And that's the best picture of how wasted our development opportunities are. The place, the region of Pomerania, which could become a depth of energy from the sun and wind, becomes a carbon hole. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question and I ask for a reply in writing: What concrete measures are you going to take to develop green, forward-looking jobs, as well as a fair energy transition that will include mining workers who are leaving today and those who are working there under worse and worse conditions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u193	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u194	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister regarding the country's food security in order to support Polish farmers. During all debates and during the entire previous term of office we talked about this very much and we did very much for Polish agriculture. I also believe that Mr Janusz Wojciechowski's candidacy as Commissioner, as well as his cooperation with Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski and Mr Andrzej Duda's declarations and declarations on support for Polish farmers in order to align direct payments to the level of the countries of the old Union, so that we can function equally in the European Union, these are very important things. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister what the progress of this work is and when we can expect an increase in this amount of aid. I, too, serve as a parliamentarians, who is also a farmer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Eugeniusz Czykwin, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In the last six years 1.5 million trees have died in the Białowieża Forest. The trees died on the surface of over 7,000. ha. Several species are at risk, but the population of the Białowieża Forest region is also at risk. The majority of these people belong to the Belarusian minority. The social and economic degradation of the region caused the population of Hajnów County to decline by more than 30% since 1990. At the same time, only 6% of the population, the inhabitants, were lost in the neighbouring district of Mazovia, where there are no minorities. Forced to leave, bullied, stigmatized by Polish nationalists in marches proclaiming the glory of those who pacified Orthodox villages and murdered their inhabitants, leaving and losing contact with their fatherhood, losing their identity, quickly polishing. Between the 2002 and 2011 censuses, the number of declared Belarusians (Dzwonek) in the Podlaskie voivodship decreased by nearly 20%. I have two questions. Will the government take action to prevent further socio-economic degradation of the minority-inhabited region... Mr... ...faith-national in the Podlaskie Voivodeship? And two: What will the government take to save the Bialowieza Forest from further extinction? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u197	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u198	Dear Marshal! By the way, I respect what you wish to be called. We, too, would like to see our will respected as Members of the Left, and the tablets point to the honourable Member. I'm happy to use this title as long as I know who it is. And there's no way to remember that, really. Good. I hope this time is counted off. Thank you very much. High Izbo! Prime Minister! Dear Prime Minister, in your speech you announced that you would pay attention to the safety of pedestrians, which you are very proud of, and we respect very much. I hope that the Prime Minister will also respect this declaration, take it seriously, accept the invitation to the parliamentary team created by the Left. road safety, pedestrian protection and will assure us in this team and in Parliament that it will not only take into account the announcement of the priority of pedestrians when approaching the pedestrian crossing, but will also take into account the valorization of parking tickets for traffic offences and speed cameras, because this is a very important issue that also affects pedestrian safety (the bell), road safety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneus Gains, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Energy security is one of the main policy objectives of the Government of Law and Justice. In the previous term, the government has taken many groundbreaking initiatives in this area. The strategic importance is the gasport them. President Lech Kaczyński in Świnoujście and construction of the Baltic Pipe pipeline, as well as a 10-gigawatt wind farm in the Baltic Sea, as well as the development of distributed energy in the form of prosumer installations, which in the last 4 years have been created under the rule of Law and Justice over 100,000, while for 8-year-old governments of PO-PSL only 4.5 thousand. It is a huge difference and also shows who cares about the development of green energy, distributed energy. Prime Minister, what will your government take to step up the energy transformation process (the bell) towards ensuring energy security in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u201	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u202	High Seym! The Prime Minister has presented many new promises today, but the old promises are still waiting to be fulfilled. One of your promises showing the scale of your hypocrisy is the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of October 2014. You demanded this sentence, you demanded equal treatment for caretakers of adults with disabilities. The whole term's passed, and you guys haven't gotten too excited about it. You didn't do anything to bring this sentence to justice. The Keepers are still waiting for your promise to be fulfilled. And if that promise is so meticulous and you are still not fulfilling it today, how can you take the new promises seriously? Similarly, mothers are waiting for the so-called. early retirement of EWK and senior carers with other welfare benefits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Since you are not fulfilling those promises, how can you take seriously the huge new promises made today? [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u203	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u204	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! The Prime Minister made an exposé, which we had the opportunity to hear, many far-reaching promises. I would therefore like to remind you of what the Prime Minister told us last year in order to encourage us. Well, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced that in 2019 tenders for the construction of the second-degree Vistula Vistula in Sierzewo will be launched and said: I am very glad that today - and it was October Ub. r. - I can announce that next year we will start the tender work and actually today we decided that the second stage on the Vistula will rise. He's very important. I am very happy, as are the inhabitants of these surrounding lands, Włocławka, Kujaw and Dobrzyńska, because they are at risk of flooding. Prime Minister, allow me to spare you a further quote (the bell) of these statements. I'd like to ask, perhaps as Minister of Sport, what are you going to do about it and... Thank you. ...will we be able to count on the fulfillment of the promises made by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki during the previous term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u205	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka asked for the opportunity to complete her question, but there is no such procedure. I would therefore allow myself, on behalf of the Member, if I may... The Member asked that the answer to her question be given in writing, Prime Minister, so if I may, then at this moment... Thank you very much, thank you very much. Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Piotr Sak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In your speech, you put a very strong emphasis, even an emphase, on improving road safety. According to statistics, a number of accidents are caused by the youngest and oldest road users. It is a notorious fact that due to the passing of years, natural processes related to the reduction of efficiency, so-called. Retardation, slow motion. In psychology it is referred to as the so-called. tenderness syndrome. Recently, there was a communication accident in my hometown of Tarnów, in which four teenagers were injured. The perpetrator was a 88-year-old person. I therefore address the question to the Prime Minister. Will special programmes for older people be proposed by countries such as Finland or France to check their psychomotors or possible prevention studies? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd be very grateful for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u207	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! You have announced a great deal that climate issues, energy policy will be one of the pillars of your government's activities, but we have only heard the generals. And Poland is on the best road right now. Because as the only country in the European Union, we did not meet all three of the objectives of the energy and climate package in 2020 and all the more so in 2030. At best, we'll be buying virtual renewable energy. This is estimated to be about 8 billion somewhere. We are also threatened with the loss of the possibility of using around EUR 5 billion from the Modernization Fund for energy transformation and access to a special EUR tens of billion, a facility for restructuring mining monoculture regions, if these criteria and conditions are not met. What about clean air? Yeah. Only the interest of Poles is real, the realization is pure fiction, because the current programme does not qualify for structural funds. We have received no answers and no announcements. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u209	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u210	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In your exposé, you have devoted a lot of space to the Prime Minister of Renewable Energy. This, I think, is a very good direction, and I'm saying this as a person who's been taking care of energy and doing it professionally. On the other hand, there was also talk of electromobility. Today we are actually facing a great challenge when it comes to the development of electromobility in Poland. The current law moves time and again with regard to the implementation of specific tasks. Therefore, my question is: Are you really planning a special programme for the development of electromobility during this term of office? What will the funds be and how will local governments be able to benefit from these funds, because today it is a huge, huge problem for local governments to buy such vehicles, but also to invest in infrastructure, because for this (the bell) they need financial resources? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Not long ago, from the mouth of the representative of the Left, we heard words indicating that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, formerly the government of Beata Szydła, is responsible for the death of people who have been affected by the law on the collection of pension funds from former employees of the Security Service. It's a very mean thing to do. It seems to me that the Left as this formation that inherits the entire legacy of the Polish United Workers' Party, should designate people who should change every day around the clock... Oh! ...to kneel in front of the graves of the people... It's thick. Look this way. How old are we? Enough... ...were murdered in Uncle's mines, shipbuilders, etc. It's just the meanness of what you've said with your representative's mouth. And a question. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not feel that this debate, this part of the debate about the Prime Minister's exposé, is absolutely unnecessary? This questioning is unnecessary because the State (The Bell) with the lips of its leaders has already said... Ha, ha, ha! ...that you will not support the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. We should ask such questions... Mr. President, it's time. ...which are appropriate, suitable for our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u213	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u214	Well, at this point, the words of the song are bowing down: Only they know what the world looks like and how it should be. Bravo! So I will ask the question that is needed, Prime Minister, namely about the local governments of the voivodships. Machining - removal of agricultural advisory centers, collection of voivodship managements of melioration and water equipment, collection of influence on voivodship environmental protection funds and at the end of the disabling of local governments to the Self-Government Road Fund. And here, Prime Minister, I would like a little focus. An example of Opole Voivodship. For 14 years the use of EU funds managed to renovate 1/3 of the voivodship roads in the region. 14 years of EU funding. 1/3 still needs remodeling, and it's rapidly, so if we don't include the Self-Government Roads Fund for the reconstruction of voivodship roads, we won't solve the problem. How is quality of life to be built in this context? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's the anti-depopulation look like? 1/3 of rural areas in Poland are depopulation and ageing. So is it possible... Thank you. ...the correction of your policy... Thank you very much. ...and restore or include local roads in the fund? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Pawłowska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u216	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! After today's exposé I know that not only TVP shows us the land of honey and milk flowing. Today we had a show of true arrogance towards citizens and citizens of our country. Prime Minister, more than half a thousand people in Zamość have completed their applications under the Living+ programme. There will be 96 apartments, but construction will not start until this year. Minister Soboń said in October that all over Poland is under construction 2731 apartments and will be ready to live by the end of this year. I'd like to ask you how that goes to the promise of 100,000. Minister Sobonia's apartments and words, which in March assured you that by the end of this year you would start the construction of this 100,000. apartments. Where, when and how much? Such questions arise, since at this point (the bell) you must transfer funds from the Solidarity Fund to the thirteenth pension. Thank you. The question has already been asked. Thank you very much, Member. Time's up. I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u217	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u218	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, I have questions. Do you know that there is a document like the Responsible Development Strategy? And do you also know that the Ministry of Development has a list of 122 cities threatened with the loss of socio-economic functions? On this list was a beautiful city, the city of Krosno. The city's authorities are doing everything they can to prevent marginalisation. For several million zlotys, the area was purchased to build a road connecting Krosno to the S19 road and prepare the investment zone. President Krosna has requested that the borders of Krosn be extended to this purchased area. The Podkarpackie Voivode has given a positive opinion, and thank you very much. On the other hand, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration issued a negative opinion and thus stopped the development of Krosna and neighbouring municipalities. Prime Minister, what about this strategy and the list of cities at risk of exclusion? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You spoke today about development, but the decisions of the ministers lead to a halt to development. What's your idea of solving this situation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u219	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u220	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, In his speech, the Prime Minister spoke a lot about normality, but he also spoke a lot about rejecting extremes. But unfortunately I have not heard a word about how your government will fight this worst extreme, which is nationalism on Polish streets. You didn't say anything in your exposé about intimidating statistics run not by any non-governmental organizations, but by the National Public Prosecutor's Office, which Minister Ziobro is overseeing, which means you are personally overseeing. The statistics of the National Public Prosecutor's Office are very clear: until 12 years ago we had 30 and 40 hate crimes reported to the Polish prosecutors, in 2018 there were almost 1700 of them. We're dealing with a brown wave that's growing. I would expect clear declarations and clear actions from the Prime Minister. Perhaps a good first step would be to restore a textbook for police officers, which was withdrawn 2 years ago (the bell) by Minister Zieliński, on how to recognize nationalism and fascism on Polish streets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u222	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, The Government of Law and Justice places great emphasis on research and development. The R &amp; D work carried out by entrepreneurs is the main direction of European funds in the current perspective. I was delighted to see young entrepreneurs at Congress 590 in Jasionka near Rzeszow present their achievements, which are highly rated internationally. Prime Minister! How much more investment in R &amp; D has increased, and to what extent will this contribute to the development of the Polish economy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u223	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! There was no information in your exposé today on how the government is going to take care of culture and historical heritage. And yet we build a sense of identity by knowing our history and experiencing culture. Unfortunately, the traces of this heritage are disappearing forever, I'm talking about monuments. Historic conservationists from Warmia and Mazury are calling for an alarm. They took the task of making the government aware of how many monuments have been destroyed over the years. Many of him should have been involved in conservation work long ago. Due to the very small resources, the work is spread over the years and at that time some monuments are lost irretrievably. If your finances are as good as you ensure, then why is there so little money to save the monuments? How does the government plan to take care of culture, including the protection of monuments? Please answer me. [[Applause]] That's the most in history.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u225	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I've run out of commitments for you. You want to defend Polish children from ideology in textbooks, but you wrote them in time so-called. deformities. What about actual immunity? There are many wonderful and loving Polish families, but we regularly hear about abused children. Children are victims and witnesses of domestic violence. The foundation of a sense of security should be a family, but you're weakening it. You dismantle help systems, blue card, and trust phone. Where is the national strategy to protect children from violence, which has been called upon so many times by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child? Under your rule, children are not safe. They don't even know what immunity means. Violence destroys. It is a source of learned helplessness, childhood depression and suicide. You want psychiatry reform. It's not specific again. In Poland, psychiatry units of children's psychiatry are massively closed, horrendously overcrowded, desperately lacking doctors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why I have a question and I'm asking you to answer it in writing. What will you do to protect Polish families, especially children, from violence and their mental health? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u227	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! September 25th this year I had the honour to participate with the Prime Minister in Jastrzębie-Zdrój in the opening of the new Bzie-Dębina mine. It's the first investment in nearly 30 years. The European Union is very reluctant to Polish coal in its climate policy. The European Commission wants Europe to become climate neutral by 2050. I have a question for you. What will be the government's response to EU climate policy? I also wanted to address my previous speakers from the Civic Platform, especially Minister Grabarczyk, who, ladies and gentlemen, was talking about excluding cities from the railroad. Let me remind you that thanks to the rule of law and justice, the railway line Jastrzębie-Zdrój - Katowice has been entered into the program. The Marshals of the Silesian Voivodeship gave priority to this investment. A 18 September 2008 [[♪ The bell ♪]] The last railway line that was in Jastrzębie was destroyed by Minister Grabarczyk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u229	Thank you, sir. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! After listening to Mr. Exposé, I have only one question. Why do you use half-truths, bend reality? A few examples. During your exposé you said that in your reign 100,000. The Poles came back from emigration. Why didn't you add that since 2015 the number of Poles who are going abroad, emigrating, constantly growing, and didn't stop this trend? The second point, the issue of innovation. Where's the data coming from? GUS. Already four years ago, you announced an increase in investment, in particular as regards innovation. Where are we when it comes to innovation? This is shown by the European Innovation Rating. We're in fourth place, but from the end. Educational subsidy. You're talking about increasing education subsidies, but why don't you add that this subsidy isn't even enough to pay teachers' salaries? Self-governments are simply killed, educational subsidies kill local governments, lack the opportunity to develop (the bell) investment. You can keep up the good work. Prime Minister, when are we going to hear the truth about the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u231	Thank you very much, Member. [[Applause]] Bravo! Mr Marek Rutka, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, The Prime Minister devoted approx. Three minutes. That's much less than worldview issues. It's not a good proportion. Fortunately, no one in Poland dies of the world, and diseases, especially cancerous ones, do. About 100,000 each year. Poles and Poles die of cancer. It's like a medium-sized city disappearing from a map of our country. Poland next to Hungary and Croatia is in the first three countries with the highest mortality rate for cancer. 44 oncology characteristics on 93 recommended by European scientific associations are not available in Poland. Worse in this respect on our continent (the bell) is only in Albania. In the countries of the European Union for one patient... Mr President, finish up. Time's up. Question. ...oncology seems to be around 100 euros, in Poland 42. My question is, I'm only asking for an answer without using financial engineering runways. Question. How much more emphasis will be placed on cancer prevention over the next two years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u233	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Poles are considered a nation that works a lot. We are probably among the countries that work most. One country has announced - perhaps there even more works than in Poland - that it will fight this excess. How does this workload of every employee change in Poland, in other words: How much does the statistical work of a Polish employee work in the course of the year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u235	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Three questions for the Prime Minister. First: Will your government introduce the promised minimum prices for agricultural products, and when? Secondly, where is the food holding you talked so much about in the election campaign in recent years, which was supposed to be an antidote to agricultural matters, to be a market regulator and guaranteeing high incomes for farmers? Finally, thirdly, I wanted to ask how your government prepared our country before the further non-proliferation of African swine fever disease? Let me remind you that this disease is already in front of the pig hole, which is the area of the Wielkopolska voivodship. And when will the government finally pay adequate compensation to those farmers who stopped producing pigs in Poland? Let me remind you that this concerns 17% The farmers... Oh... ...who took out 100,000. swine flocks in Poland. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u237	Thank you very much, sir. Bravo! Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u238	Of necessity very briefly about health care. It's been four years. In the exposé, Prime Minister, you also announced a course of such a drifting course with skillful avoidance of conflict situations, with minor successes, because they were, but without moving on to serious matters. Question: The debt of our public hospitals this year is likely to exceed 14 billion, only a total of at least one billion this year. The governments, which are effectively deprived of money by the government, are unable to repay their debt. What's your idea of solving the problem of hospital debt? Are you hoping that society will get used to closing down troops and hospitals? 6% GDP recorded by law. Do you have any idea of a stable source of funding for us to reach 6%? GDP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u240	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I listened attentively to the speech by the Prime Minister and pointed out the Prime Minister's declaration that Estonian CIT would be introduced for Polish micro- and small enterprises. I would like to hear a few words, Prime Minister, about the benefits of this solution to the Polish economy, especially to micro- and small entrepreneurs, and what will be the work of this Estonian CIT. And thank you, Prime Minister, for the declarations made and for leaning over the safety of pedestrians in road traffic, especially those who are entering the pedestrian crossing or are already at that crossing. In Poland too many people are dying just on pedestrian crossings and I am glad that we will solve this problem comprehensively, with the safety of pedestrians even before the entrance (the bell) to the transition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u241	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ireneus Raś, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u242	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Now I speak outside politics as head of the Committee on Sports and Tourism in the Polish Sejm for several years and I would like to say that I was disappointed that for 90 minutes about tourism the Prime Minister said nothing. Prime Minister! 6% GDP, but you didn't say specifics about what you wanted to implement within the Polish government in order to reach out to these demands that this environment has been presenting for years. No specifics, especially since, Prime Minister, you are most likely moving tourism from the sports and tourism department to the economy. There is, therefore, more to be said. On the other hand, as far as sport is concerned, I would like to tell you that it cannot be that for the next term of office we will finance sport, also the professional one, from the Physical Culture Development Fund. This fund was created for something else. There's got to be more budget money you haven't given in years four. I'm gonna suggest that there's more money right out of the budget. (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u243	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u244	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I would like to ask when the Podlaskie voivodship will eventually become an integral part of Poland, not of Poland B. Do you know, Prime Minister, that in the 21st century my Podlaskie voivodeship has no highway or high-speed road except the road from Bialystok to the capital? The Podlasie deflects, among others. Because logistics looks exactly what it looks like. In addition, there are no bypasses, and in the cities of my voivodship there is smog and danger on the roads. When is this gonna change? Question two. Prime Minister, farmers in the Podlaskie voivodship are having more and more problems in terms of drought, which reduces harvests. When will retention tanks be built in Podlaskie Voivodship? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Thank you for the fact that such a part of the exposé was about values, because values are probably the basis on which we can build. One of these values is family, but for a family to function well, it has to have a roof over its head, it has to have an apartment. I wanted to ask you a question because 2018 was a very good year: 185 thousand. The apartments you've been paying, the record for the last time. This year it's getting ready to be 200,000. apartments. And this is also a very good result, but I would like to say that in this, you can say, the mix was as many of these apartments from the I would ask you to answer the question of what else you can do, what tools you can use, so that this main operator, BGK, who is currently managing the apartment+ programme, could strengthen most of these activities so that housing is as much as possible. I know this is an investment process. It's not that fast. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They say there are so few apartments, and it's only been four years, ladies and gentlemen. The investment process itself is very long. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u247	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS has such a method of action that first what works well turns it into a mess, ruins it, then wonders why it doesn't work and then returns to those solutions that have already been. That's what you did with health care, hospitals, renewable energy and schools. You've eliminated junior high, you've added two years to primary school, you've pushed a double year into secondary schools, and now you're going to build 1,000 schools. Very quick reflection, really, congratulations. You're talking, Prime Minister, about normality. Is it normal that the head of the Polish government comes out here, to the Seym Council, and tells the teachers that he gives them raises, that he will give them some money for it. The raises that you passed by law, written miserable and on your knees, were passed to the teachers of local governments. You said a beautiful sentence today: heartfelt thanks to local governments. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, that's not enough. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have to give it money and stop fooling people. If you raise the lowest salary, start by raising it to the teachers, because most of them work for the lowest salary. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u249	Thank you very much, Member. Catherine Ueberhan, Left. If I misread the name, correct me. Excuse me from upstairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u250	Good. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I was pleased to hear you say that. I agree that children are untouchable. Except the kids don't know that. Without reliable and universal sexual education, children do not know what a bad touch is, they do not know that they can oppose even when this bad touch comes from a man dressed in a casket. I have a question. Do you support the barbaric idea of banning sexual education and punishing educators? If not, do you have another plan? Second question. I was pleased to hear the words on equal pay for men and women for the same work. This is a very left-wing password. What about pensions? It is women who are among the 2 million pensioners who receive penny pensions or do not receive them at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 86% women are in the lowest group at risk of poverty. Thank you. Will you and your government support the Left project on the $1,600 minimum pension for everyone? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u252	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Two years ago in your exposé, you promised that oncology would be not only for you, but also for the government the most important point. In this exposé, you flew through health care in a dozen or so seconds, almost like Pendolino. I would like to refer to Mr Marek Rutka, who spoke about the drama of Polish oncology. You said the government adopted the National Oncology Strategy. Prime Minister, the government didn't take it. At the end of this month, the Minister of Health will adopt the National Oncology Strategy by means of a legal document. You said the Ministry of Health introduced a network of national oncology hospitals. She didn't. It is only piloting conducted in two voivodships - Świętokrzyskie and Dolnośląskie - which has not yet been evaluated. In other voivodships, of course, this is not the case. You also said that there was a network of oncology hospitals for breast cancer. Another is not true, because for now only in the case of one voivodship - Mazowieckie - these benefits have been signed. In the case of the others, competitions have not even been set up or the developers have not been selected. Breast cancer, Prime Minister, is a disease that has a downward trend across Europe. Poland is the only country in Europe where there is an increase in breast cancer. Another one, one last thing. You talked about historical health expenditures, but this year the debt of Polish hospitals - was already mentioned - will amount to almost 14 billion, including about 400 million are liabilities to the Social Insurance Institution. I'm asking for a fair answer... [[Game in the O.R.]] Okay, let's keep going. I would also like to remind you here that the government has adopted a strategic document called "The drug policy of the State 2018-2022". According to him, the expenditure on drug reimbursement would be at least 16 billion a year. This year, however, there are more than 1 billion of these funds. As a result, the amount allocated to this refund has been reduced by almost PLN 1 billion. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u253	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Both today and in your previous speeches, you stressed that the success of the current government is the level of justice in Poland. It's just that I think it's different for Poles and Poles to see it. Currently, court cases last at least 40 days, on average 40 days longer than before. The failed reform of the civil procedure has further extended any proceedings before civil courts. Why do we continue to live in a country where citizens and citizens wait years for trial? Why has improvements in the judicial system still not been dealt with? Maybe it's time for the reform of the judiciary, the separation of the Attorney General's institutions and the Minister of Justice? Prime Minister, when will the Attorney General be an institution independent of the government? And the second thing is, is there any envisaged mechanism for stalling investments and over-the-counter investments? I'm talking about an investment on the S3 road between Legnica and Głogów. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, i.e. once a new invitation to tender has been announced, it is not known when it will be implemented. Is the government able to verify contractors and how the investment is carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u255	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u256	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In your exposé you spoke about the highest education subsidy in history for the benefit of our children, but you did not mention the enormous expenses that local governments have to bear for educational tasks. Contacts. In 2018 there were 43 billion zlotys in terms of subsidies, expenses - 76 billion zlotys. An example of my town Rybnik. Data for 2019. Subvention - PLN 171 million, expenditure - PLN 279 million, without increases for teachers. Don't you think that throwing this financial responsibility on local governments is more of a cause for shame than pride? And then there's the second line. You said that we have convinced the Union of our solutions to the issue of migrants. How does this apply to the words of the European Court of Justice spokeswoman that Poland has clearly broken the law, avoiding participation in the refugee switchboard? You've talked so much about values today. I think it's also a cause for shame, not pride. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u257	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jacek Czerniak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u258	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Seym! Prime Minister! You were talking about a fair development. I understand that this fair development is linked to sustainable development as the achievement of the socio-economic objective, the fulfilment of certain human needs, of course, with respect to environmental conditions. You also talked about Gini's indicators, Gini's index, and other statistics that showed how well things were in our country. I'd like to present some indicators, too. They concern the voivodship from which I come, the voivodship of Lublin. Well, our voivodship in gross domestic product is about 4%. , the penultimate place in the gross domestic product. And I would like to ask the Prime Minister if your government is considering this possibility of a new border crossing between Poland and the Republic of Belarus, because there is a village in Włodawa, on the other hand there is Tomaszówka. The President of the Republic of Poland said that he would support such a project. I would like to know at what stage this investment is at and what are the government investments in Lublin Voivodeship. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u259	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u260	High Seym! Prime Minister! You slipped very cleverly on the subject of health care, perhaps the most important thing for our society. In your previous speech, you boasted of great success, which you really don't have. The question is: Prime Minister, disregard or ignorance? He disqualifies you as head of government. Prime Minister, you're lying to reality. I have a question as to whether your ignorance reaches so deep that you don't know that you closed down 69 hospitals last year, that one hospital unit closes down every day, that 110,000 die. Poles due to cancer, that in 2018 most Poles died - 414 thousand. - since the end of World War II. I have to ask you if you'll have the courage and boldness to go to patients in the S.R. who are dying in line. Will you have the courage to go to patients who do not expect oncology medications because we do not have medicines that are registered in the European Union? What are you gonna do, what are you gonna do with the treasure minister (the bell) to allocate resources to really get us to 6%? ? You're lying about 6% because it really is 4.7%. You have a policy of manipulation... Thank you very much. ...because the percentage of GDP refers to 2017. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u261	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Hello! Hello! Prime Minister! I'm sorry. I've been waiting for the Prime Minister to be available. Your party is a record holder for the size of the government. At one point, you formed a government with 120 ministers and vice-ministers. Everyone will receive an adequate salary, a limo, money for assistants and other activities. It cost taxpayers millions of zlotys. Law and Justice, going to power, announced that political offices would disappear from ministries or state offices. In 2012, the ruling team (The Bell) submitted a bill on this matter. Madam, the question. After gaining power, not only did the political offices survive, but they grew, just as the prizes paid increased. Okay. Madam, please ask the question. You promised to reduce the administration. Question. Prime Minister, please tell me when this is going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u263	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u264	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am one of those people you spoke about today in your exposé. I came back from emigration, but I came back not because Poland is the green island of statistical miracles that you spoke about. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm back because I'm worried about my family who stayed in a country ruled by your government. Over the last four years, you have consistently ignored the fact that Poland is breathing the most toxic air in Europe. For the last four years, you've allowed over 200,000. Polish and Polish died prematurely because of smog. Your program "Clean Air" is pure theory. For the last four years, you have wasted many opportunities to make Poland a normal country, without smog, without fires dumps of garbage, with cheap renewable energy. Will you continue to cut, burn and concrete for the next four years? I hope not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As Members of the Green Party, the Civic Coalition Club, we have just tabled a draft Climate Act. Thank you. Let's start with real climate and nature protection by adopting it together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u265	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Bogusław Wontor, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! In the exposé I heard nothing addressed to the youngest part of our society. Aren't you young people beyond the interest of your government? I would like to remind you that under the PiS regime, there was a Department of Affairs in the Ministry in 2005 and 2007. Youths, former programmes, measures addressed to young people, dedicated to young people. Today, there is no organizational unit dealing with youth matters, and there are no programmes, and there are no funds directly dedicated to young people. The Minister of Education has already become only a theoretical minister of youth. Are you going to change this state of affairs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Aniśko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u268	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In your exposé, you took us on an exciting journey to the land of political surrealism. It was nice to hear, but I encourage you to return to reality and come down to earth. In your 90-minute speech, you've only spent one minute in a climate disaster without even calling it by name and limiting yourself to non-binding generals. Does this mean that your office will continue to take only a sham, cosmetic action to silence critics, such as the appointment of the Ministry of Climate? Does this mean that you do not consider this problem a priority in your government's actions? Prime Minister, the Stone Age did not end because of the lack of stone. Today we face the necessity of ending the coal age, whether you like it or not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you to determine when we will release Poland from coal. Please respond in writing. He's crazy. Dangerous lunatic. Is there a doctor in the O.R.?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u269	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Gdula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I can't help but say something nice. You've been here with us in the O.R. for a very long time. If there were any championships in sitting in a parliament hall, I think you should be set up in them. I'm very grateful for that. I was very pleased to hear what they said about stepping up the fight against smog. But I also recall the passages in which you spoke about ideology that threatens our children, and this was about sexual education. At the same time, I recall what Minister Radziwiłł said in 2017 that smog is theoretical. That's changed in the PiS today. I'm counting on you to apologize with sexual education, too. My question is, in two years' time, can we expect to introduce sexual education in schools? There's no need for introductions. She is. And the question about smog: Is there any chance of getting back the money we lost from the European Union for the Clean Air programme? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u271	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'll start with nice words, too. I really liked the security deposit system for plastic or something. A pedestrian right before entering the lanes. I just have a question: Did you and your party do anything to keep the people on the lanes from dying for four years? Unfortunately, I will answer right away: You have done nothing, on the contrary, you give permission to drive fast. You're also breaking the rules by rushing to break the neck with government limousines. Prime Minister, I have a question: How can I trust you if you divide Poles into better and worse kind for four years? I'm the victim myself. How am I supposed to trust you if you've made a propaganda tube out of public television and you're using it, and now you're defining the standards and principles of normality? According to you, is a normal person, normal Polish or normal Polish, just a person who votes for the PiS? Finally, the question: How can I trust the formation and you, Prime Minister, if you are separating yourselves from Poles and Poles with barriers around the Sejm, and one of your fellow Members has security guards behind this room? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Aren't you ashamed? How am I supposed to trust you after all this, Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In your exposé, you spoke of an increase in spending over the past 4 years on health care from 70 billion to 104 billion. I have a question for you: What government will find a solution, a way to reduce patient queues to specialists? What government will find a solution, a way to extend Polish hospitals? What kind of government will find a solution, a way for hospitals to stop indebting themselves? I also have a question about infrastructure: Prime Minister, when will the road of Bydgoszcz - Toruń stop being the road of death? When does the government intend to pursue this path? I also have a question about your electoral promise on the Shooting Town ring road: When will this bypass be realized? I would add Tuchola and Sępolna Krajński's bypass to the Strzelna ring road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u276	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! You've devoted exactly one sentence to self-government matters in your exposé. I would like to draw attention to the fact that local governments are a pillar of Polish democracy and next year we will celebrate the 30th anniversary of Polish self-government. On the other hand, you show your attitude towards local governments every day by cutting off their oxygen and holding their throats because you're limiting their financial opportunities. I would like to draw attention to the fact that due to tax changes next year Polish local governments will lose 6 billion PLN of revenue to budgets, and my family Lublin - 65 million PLN. Four day care facilities could be built in Lublin for this amount. You said that you would provide local governments with money to raise teachers that are very much needed. But how are we supposed to believe that if you didn't provide that money this year? In Lublin there was a shortage of 5.5 million PLN. Self-governments, preparing budgets for next year, are beating on the alarm. I ask: Who will build streets, sidewalks, bike paths, schools and football fields, if the Polish local authorities finish eventually (the bell)? Thank you. I would like to ask you if you will return to Lublin the missing 20 million PLN for the deformity of education and the missing 65 million PLN in the next year's budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u277	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to the exposé of the Prime Minister - the issue of infrastructure - in which you made the words: Prosperity also depends on good infrastructure. You were talking about the national housing program, you were talking about the Self-Government Road Fund, the railway infrastructure, and the 100 bypasses. In this context, I will refer to the example of my city, the oldest city in Poland. I'm talking about Kalisz. City on the rights of the county, former voivodship city - without a ring road. Please, Prime Minister, let us know what the 100 bypass programme looks like and when Kalisz city will finally see this bypass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u279	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Kostus, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u280	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister in his exposé, like two years ago, stressed very strongly the priority of improving the health safety of Poles and Poles. He talked about how much the government has recently done in this area, about the additional 35 billion that have been earmarked for this purpose. Prime Minister! If it's so good, why is it so bad? Why aren't the first contact queues for doctors, for specialists, for hospitals shrinking and extending? Why do we have a giant deficit of doctors, nurses, paramedics? Why is the debt of hospitals so giganticly and so dynamicly from month to month? Answer that question. Please respond to your idea of improving health care, increasing the efficiency of public spending for this purpose. And last question, regional question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, despite the monits, despite many protests, there is still a harmful algorithm for the allocation of funds to the 16th NFZs. As a result of this algorithm... Question, sir. You're out of time. Hurry up. You're welcome. ... Opole region receives the least of the 16 voivodships. That's why more S.O.R.s, more troops, hospitals are closing down. It's time to change that, Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u281	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to ask you a specific question about your speech. I wanted to find out - because you suggested that you put in a satisfaction study mechanism at the offices - and I would ask for information on how to organize a task like this system is supposed to look like. The second specific question is that the Prime Minister and the Government of Law and Justice form the Ministry of Climate. You said you'd be a representative of the RES government. Renewable energy sources are one of the key elements of thinking that... We want to think responsibly about energy, about the country, about the climate. I would like to know what the purpose of the appointment of an attorney is or what his competence is in connection with the ministry. Because it seems that these functions will be mutually exclusive or that these competences should be combined. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u283	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u284	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You've talked a lot about values. I'd like to ask you the truth. I remember - and I am talking to you as Dolnoślązak and also as a self-government officer - when Prime Minister Szydło arrived in Dolny Śląsk and in Lubin said one essential thing that the tax on Polish copper, which is a huge burden on this company, will be eliminated. The times of crisis were over when this tax was introduced. I would like to ask if, during this term - because it was not indicated in any way in your statement - this tax will be abolished. This is an important burden for a company that bears huge investment burdens, but also huge losses for nearly 50,000. miners working hard for less profit. Today, this tax is nearly PLN 1.5 billion and I would like to ask you very clearly. And the second thing is about infrastructure, road S3. You said that infrastructure is actually a part of prosperity, a way to prosperity. Go ahead and finish it. Thank you. Are we able to (the bell) or are you able to assure the Lower Silesians that the road S3 to Lubawka will be built during this term of office? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u285	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have such an irrefutable impression that your exposé was a set of unfulfilled promises and godly wishes, especially as regards the rule of law as regards climate protection as regards renewable energy. What Krzysztof Gawkowski mentioned: the appointment of a representative for renewable energy and the Minister for Climate Affairs is a confession, Prime Minister, and that is a fact. My specific question is not that you have appointed a proxy, because it is like mixing tea, which does not become sweeter than this, but: What concrete and what goals will you present and achieve within 4 years? And the second point is that we have a link between the European Funds and the rule of law, and today we have a ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Union, which states clearly that the reform of justice, especially the Supreme Court, the National Court of Justice, is not in line with the rule of law and the law of the European Union. Don't you think we should do something about it? I wouldn't want you to be... Thank you very much, sir. ...like David Cameron, who led... [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off.]] ... Great Britain from the European Union, and you will lead...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Sługocki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u288	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Two questions, I think it's extremely important. The first concerns the new financial perspective of the European Union, namely cohesion policy. You spoke a lot about Polish investments, but you did not say anything about financing them from European funds. We know that we are on the eve of negotiations on this budget and I would like to ask you what the architecture of the operational programmes looks like, but also the implementation of cohesion policy in Poland after 2020, i.e. in 2021 and 2027. We know that economic growth in Poland was possible thanks to European intervention. Close to 157. Exactly. Sorry, 155.4. EUR billion is from the budget of the European Union. Netto we received over 107 billion euro, which is close to 500 billion PLN (The Bell), which is why I think this response is crazy... [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u289	Thank you very much. Catherine Kotula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! At the end of today's exposé, you asked for God's help. You spoke a lot about freedom today, but you also mentioned women's rights for the first time. I therefore have a very important question: Who will you listen to when it comes to women's rights? The Ultra-Conservatives of Ordo Iuris, the Fundamentalists of the Confederation or the women who've been protesting on the streets for several years? Are you going to repay your debt to the Church for your support in the election? Do you intend to support and implement a barbaric project that forces women living in Poland to give birth to severely damaged fetuses with lethal defects, which accounts for more than 95% Legally removed pregnancy? You changed your freedom today because of all the cases. You said you couldn't force a printer to print specific content. So I'm asking. : Can you force women - by denying them the right to choose - to bear fetuses with fatal defects? Is that what this Archbishop freedom is all about? A clear statement, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u292	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions for the Prime Minister. Firstly, there is no doubt that the time for economic slowdown is coming. We are a non-euro area country. What does your government, Prime Minister, intend to do to protect itself from the upcoming economic downturn? Second question. I am preparing a report from the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the impact of brexite on emigration. How does the government intend to solve the problem of Polish citizens in the UK after the Brexit? These are my two simple questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! How are you going to ensure the safety of the country against 6,000? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Overtime? How are you going to ensure security in a country where Mr. Marian Banasi's contacts were overlooked and where your services issued him a certificate of access to classified information? As I understand it, he still has this certificate, and in the service no one has suffered the consequences of this mess. How are you going to give Poles access to clean air when landfills are burning in Poland? 250,000 of them burned last year. You allowed Poland to become a dumpster of Europe. During your reign, the carriage of garbage into Poland tripled. Almost 0.5 million t of garbage came to Poland last year. What are you going to do with this and toxic waste, which is also several dozen tons in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u295	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u296	Questions for the Prime Minister of Finance. Prime Minister, there is a likeness of Benjamin Franklin, the father of the founder of American democracy. His sentence is: Well done is better than well said. As far as hospitals are concerned, the largest debt reaches 14 billion and 97% hospitals are in debt. They're gonna have losses. Hospitals are closed. The imaginary form of hospital financing for GDP in the previous year... Will you change the hospital network bill? Mr Dębica and Mr Mielec are behind you. They know perfectly well that it has to be done. Second line. You've been severely criticized about rising energy prices. Energy companies have requested a 40% increase in price. When are you gonna cause this situation so there's no increase in electricity prices? Otherwise, how much will this increase be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. You promised me $100,000. Or 200,000. apartments. [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u297	Thank you, Member. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left. You're welcome. I just want to ask... Madame, I am sorry, but it is already over. Step aside, my friend. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! When I think of the realization of your beautiful assurances, it reminds me of the song by Dalida Paroles, parolees, meaning words, words, words, only words thrown to the wind. Half of the young Poles live with their parents before they are 30. I want to ask you: What will the government have to offer in addition to empty promises in the matter of 200,000. Apartments? The Prime Minister was thundering at corporations that make profits from Poland. It's a shame you forgot about the banks. How many more years will young people in Poland be sentenced to mortgage racket? The 500+ program did not bring an increase in birth numbers. Because how do you decide on parenting when half of your income eats a monthly loan instalment? Why did your government's low-rent housing program become like your predecessors, the bank support program and the developers again? Because they are the biggest beneficiaries of the effects of the housing disaster in Poland. Prime Minister! I appreciate the thought, but what are you gonna do about it besides throwing words at the wind? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u299	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u300	Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today's exposé is clichés, promises, and actually often lies without covering. There were a lot of threads in your head, and you gave them a few sentences. I haven't heard anything about sports of children and young people, professional sports, sports of people with disabilities or tourism. For now, you're the Minister of Sport. I have a few questions. Speaking of children's immunity... I hope that you will effectively protect your children so that they are not molested in our country, and you will promise to protect them through honest and not fictional education. Will you find the means to implement effective oncology treatment? In Łódź we have one of the largest numbers of diseases, especially among women. How do you want to ensure effective health protection? By modernising hospitals? Which ones? The ones you're taking out, the ones you don't have staff or the ones you don't pay? You need to implement an effective drug policy. You're talking about the Republic that the Republic is the good of the nation. Unfortunately, for four years the Republic has been a dumpster, a dumpster. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u301	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Wiesław Boj, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u302	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, In your speech, you spoke of the need for good changes in the area of environmental protection, while the law on cleanliness and order in municipalities, which has been in force since 6 September this year, has been amended. According to the amended provisions of the Act PGE Energia Warm Zespół Elektrociepłownia in Rzeszów accepts offers for the supply of municipal waste as a basic fuel for thermal conversion plant with energy recovery. What does that mean? Garbage will not first be processed in the vicinity, but will be transported e.g. from Warsaw to Rzeszow, from Rzeszow we do not know where. The roads will be destroyed. So far to transport... It's an environmental bomb. Garbage will poison the environment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. What is the Prime Minister going to do about it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u303	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, You said in the exposé that we were breaking up with temporary, current solutions. The most important thing for you is long-term policy. So why did you marginalize the environmental issue in your exposé? I'm thinking about concrete solutions. Why didn't you declare a trash ban with full knowledge that the last four years have been a 300-percent increase in trash disposal from Europe and the world? What about illegal landfills? What about environmental bombs? I'm a resident of the Zgierski district. What did you do with the petition of the residents of the Zgierski district? We live on one big bomb. You haven't completely given up your seat to local governments, so you don't talk to local governments, you don't know what's going on in local governments today about trash increases. What are you going to do about the problem of Polish stepping? It's also about the war. Lodzkie. You've heard of what's going on in Skierniewice. You were talking about family silver. What about family greenery? ♪ The bell ♪ Thank you very much, Member. What about the cut-out Bialowieza Forest, the Carpathian Forest? What do you want... [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u305	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! You were talking about hundreds of new train stations today. Please respond in writing, where specifically these hundreds of new railway stations were created or arose. As far as one station is concerned, I'd like a more detailed answer. During the campaign, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz promised Poznań a reconstruction of an absurd and non-functional railway station, whose reconstruction we are looking forward to. The minister promised, I don't see it in the state budget. Maybe it's one of those hundreds of stations. There was a lot about enlightenment today. The opposition was talking about local governments. The Prime Minister didn't deal with local governments. I have one question: Is the Prime Minister aware of what the local governments are downloading in connection with the collapse of educational subsidies? ♪ The bell ♪
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u307	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u308	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Honourable Prime Minister! The Silesian Museum in Katowice is an institution co-financed by the Ministry of Culture. At the beginning of September this year, the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship asked for the cancellation of the director of this institution, the recent winner of the Gloria Artis Award, Mrs. Alicia Knast. The reason is your director's resistance to the organisation of the Silesian Program Congress at the museum... Don't lie to me. ...at the height of the election campaign. Alicia Kast is and has always opposed the introduction of policies into the thresholds of cultural institutions. In 2015, the Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz learned this - there was no press conference of the government at the museum. The appeal process is full of examples, audits to which the interested parties do not have access, checks carried out by teams in which you will not be able to witness the museum. I ask: Will the Minister of Culture put the dam in such applications and practices? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the name of today's thesis... Thank you very much, sir. ...the Prime Minister's freedom of culture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! You presented a story about normality today. Normality, however, involves partnership, subjective treatment and not subjective treatment. And I mean local governments, their relationship with the government. Unfortunately, it's not good. In my professional experience, several years ago, the share of local authorities' own resources in the tasks contracted and accepted from the State amounted to a maximum of 30%. Currently, in the case of Gdansk, in the education budget, this is half, that is the money of the city of Gdansk. And one more thing. Certainly young taxpayers are happy with zero PIT, but according to estimates made by the treasurer Gdansk, with the annual budget for zero PIT there will be a shortage of about PLN 100 million. Therefore, the question as well as the request: Isn't it time to take (the bell) a serious conversation with local governments? Because maybe you, and us... Thank you. ...wait a black procession, like at the end of the 18th century. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u311	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u312	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I'm gonna ask about Łódź, of course, given that I've been vice president of this town for nine years. Do you know that Łódź is the largest city in the city? 4,000. tenement, over 100 palaces and villas. 90% tenement building, municipal buildings were built before 1945, 15% of these tenements were built in the 19th century. The city never had a comprehensive state support programme and had to get up on its own after the fall of textile in the age of transformation. And the government in connection with the reform of CIT and PIT takes about PLN 140 million from Łódź. Whether the government intends to take responsibility for our common heritage, or whether it intends to consider creating a programme specifically for Łódź, beyond divisions, or whether it will block such initiatives (the Bell) because of the fact that... Thank you very much, sir. ...president of Łódź is anybody from the Civic Platform? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u313	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I really appreciate you being here during this debate all the time. You mentioned road safety today. Therefore, I would like to ask: Do you see an opportunity to start planning on the implementation of the S12 expressway in the section Głogów - Leszno - Kalisz in this term of office, as well as what episodes of S11 in the Greater Poland Voivodeship will be given during this term of office? You also talked about modern education. Much has been said here about the issue of subsidies. In this connection, I would like to ask the question: Is there any chance that this education subsidy genuinely covers all the real costs that are related to, for example, the ongoing maintenance of education? As regards the level playing field in health care, I would like to ask if you would try to level the level of contracts for hospice care for individual regions and subregions in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u316	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There is a proverb that politicians during the election campaign are determined to promise even to build bridges where there are no rivers. I would like the Prime Minister to refer to the declaration of my colleagues from the Częstochowa district who, during the election campaign four years ago, declared that if the Law and Justice win, this term will be the Częstochowa voivodeship. Therefore, my question is: Are you planning to take action in connection with the reactivation of the Częstochowa voivodship? And the second quick question concerns securing funds for the sports facility, the stadium for the Raków Częstochowa team. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. There were also declarations on the security of funds, 20 million. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u317	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u318	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Prime Minister! Let me remind you that you have also been elected as an envoy. You are a Member chosen from the Katowice district, you are a Member chosen by the Silesians, but unfortunately you forgot about Silesia. You forgot your speech, you forgot your exposé. So you forgot all the promises made during the election campaign in Silesia. You forgot about the Silesians, about all the money you gave out in your promises. That is why I have a warm request for the Prime Minister, because you will still have an opportunity here today to answer Members' questions. I ask you to remember Silesia. I was going to ask about public media, about recolonization, because such a dangerous word fell from this place today, but Silesia, voters in Silesia asked you to turn to you (the bell) to remember Silesia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u319	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! You said something in your exposé for every Pole very important that we fixed Polish cases, but you also said: best after 1989. You said something about sustainability. I therefore ask: What the government intends to do for the poorest regions of the European Union, which are Lublin region and Podkarpacie. I therefore ask: What actions will the government take in the context of the country's sustainable development in order to restore the leading role of the Puławy Azota Group in order to have their representatives on the Supervisory Board, on the Management Board, so that they are not just a cash transfer so that they can invest in the poorest region of Poland, in Lublin? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u321	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Benedykt Zientarski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It is remarkable that in this exposé the word rule of law did not fall, [[Applause]] and in the previous term, the PiS government's priority was to reform the justice system, in particular to eliminate the biggest problem, the chronicity of proceedings, and to improve the effectiveness of disciplinary proceedings. How do you imagine, specifically - and I ask for a written reply - the implementation of this reform, since the same Minister of Justice has led to a deepening of these problems, a flagrant increase in the length of proceedings, and disciplinary proceedings against judges are under the supervision of the President of the Court of Justice and the Deputy Disciplinary Ombudsman who have violated disciplinary rules on the timeliness of reasons which have a direct impact on the extension of judicial proceedings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u323	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u324	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I will return to poorer regions and poorer cities, poorer counties and poorer municipalities, because much is said, the Prime Minister very often speaks about the sustainable development of our country. I would like to ask what aid this government will offer to cities such as Chełm, poorer municipalities, poorer counties, because from its own resources, from its own budget, from its own taxes, without government support, these counties, these municipalities, individual cities are not able to develop. We also know that we have a brain drain today. We want young people to want to live where they were born and create new jobs there. My second question. What new transitions are planned, border crossings in eastern Poland, especially the border crossing point Zbereze - Adamczuki? Please respond in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u325	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In your exposé you spoke a lot about the state of prosperity. I would like to ask you what prosperity you are offering several hundred employees of the New Hulk combination in Krakow, who will lose their jobs after the blast of the blast furnace. Before the election, you promised that this wouldn't happen, but of course, as always, you lied. Unfortunately, this is not a state of prosperity, but a government of prosperity - with bonuses, airplanes, limos and villas. You spoke in the exposé about developing the Clean Air programme. Meanwhile, the Clean Air programme is pure failure. At this rate, you'll be replacing coal furnaces for 70 years. Rather, answer the question of how you're gonna improve this program, don't say you're gonna continue it, because it just doesn't work. You also said in the exposé that you needed a brave vision of Poland. Is this brave vision of destroying courts and tribunals? Rather, the European Union does not share this kind of bold vision. One last question. You spoke in your speech about normality. I'd like to ask if it's normal that the head of the customs office (the bell), the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance... Thank you. ...then head of National Tax Administration and CEO of NIK... Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. ...hids a fortune, rents... [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u327	Thank you. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u328	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! In your exposé you said that you cared about the Polish family. So what are you going to do to get an anti-violence resolution in Zakopane? This is the only city in Poland that has not adopted this resolution. You were talking about the health of Poles. Then why did the trash food come back to the school children's shops during your reign? Why do we hear about closed hospitals almost every day? One such branch was the delivery room in Zakopane. Thanks to my intervention, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska and Marshal Grodzki, this unit has been restored. Will this unit continue to operate, or after a new year of rumors in Zakopane, will you shut this unit down? You also said you cared about protecting the environment. Then explain to me, as well as to many people who have signed a petition on this matter, why are you moving New Year's Eve from TVP PiS to Great Krokiew in Zakopane, in close proximity to the Tatra National Park, where bears winter in their mouths? Because there are no games. One more thing. Where's the road to New Sinclair? Is this road included in the road construction plan? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u329	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! In his exposé, the Prime Minister did not say anything about self-government policy. So I wanted to ask you about this policy. Will it be a policy of continuing to reduce competences and shift the costs of various promises to local governments? Self - government is already experiencing very painful consequences. To save their budgets, they minimise municipal investment, which is very harmful and dangerous. Second question. Are you and how are you going to help local governments that have been at risk of drought for several years now? Self-governments can't handle this on their own. Many of them lack drinking water when there is drought. How are you going to help build retention tanks, water supply networks or deep-sea wells? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't talk about prosperity in the country... Thank you very much, Member. ...when there's no drinking water. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u331	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You didn't say much about environmental protection, and you didn't say much about protecting the Baltic Sea in your exposé. More than 10 years ago, ministers from the Baltic countries signed a Baltic Action Plan to undertake projects to combat eutrophication, i.e. survival, and the protection of the Baltic marine environment. Eutrophication is a lethal process for the sea. We have one of the youngest seas in the world and the most polluted. At what stage, then, is the implementation of this Baltic plan if there are no results? In addition to what plans to protect the Baltic Sea, Poland participates and how does it finance them? Please respond in writing. In addition, I would like to know, Prime Minister, when the Western Pomeranian Voivodeship, and especially Szczecin, will cease to be excluded by communication. When will the pendolino reach Szczecin and Świnoujście? These are one of the largest cities, and Szczecin is the sixth largest city in Poland, and there are still trains like in Prussian times. In addition, I would like a written reply to the question when the electrified railway line between Goleniowo and Kolobrzeg will be... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. ...and when he gets help from the county hospital in Kamien Pomorskie. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u333	Thank you. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! When health care is in debt to almost PLN 14 billion, when county hospitals are on the verge of financial bankruptcy, when we observe a collapse in psychiatry, when we observe a collapse in geriatrics, when the doctor's queues are the longest in history, you dedicate this term to ideology and even greater divisions of Poles and Poles, and about health services talking without specifics, without an idea, without a prescription, unless we talk about e-recepts, but also with this problem at the beginning of the next year. You said you wanted to renew the hospital walls. I want to ask you what kind of hospital upgrade fund. Who's gonna make up for this fund? Prime Minister, will these be local governments? 'Cause I'm suggesting that instead of painting the walls and eliminating the charity, you put a flat rate for hospitals up to 15%. , cover the costs of all increases and introduce (the bell) the voluntaryity of night benefits and Christmas aid. Thank you very much. I think the health pact that the opposition adopted a few months ago could be implemented by you and your government over division. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u335	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I hope that as people who like sports, we can make contact quickly. I have very short questions for you. Can you assure me that no one in Poland will be branded just because they have different views than you and your camp? Then can you say and deny the words of the president of the party who spoke about it during the campaign? Secondly, in the exposé, you didn't say anything about public media. I'm even happy about it, because the further the policy from the public radio, the better for everyone, especially for the listeners, but does this mean that you told your camp: stop, quite blunt propaganda in Poland? Now, a little bit about sports. As the one who likes sports, do you promise that you will apply fair play rules for four years that are so close to all those who love sports? Or here, in this courtroom, to those who have different views (the bell), you will say... Thank you, sir. ...that they are not rivals, opponents, but colleagues of the Sejm? [[Applause]] Bravo! And in conclusion. Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. One more thing. Not too long. Excuse me, sir, we're on time. Member, please. In the future, Prime Minister... It's not a radio.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u337	Sorry, we're an hour late. Please, Mrs Margaret Navel. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You spoke about the goal of pursuing normality and prosperity in Poland. What is this prosperity when prices in stores are rising, hospitals are sinking in debt and local governments are limiting investment? You can multiply examples over and over again. That is why I ask the Prime Minister what this normality that the Prime Minister promises us is to be about. So were all the actions and changes that the government has made so far abnormal? I'm asking if the budget has been budgeted for the Beskydy Integration Way. The fight against smog should be a priority. What will be the specific money for this purpose? What's wrong with you, Prime Minister? Are you investing in teachers? In the meantime, local governments are paying a huge amount of money to education. When are you going to pay the local authorities back for the costs they incur (the bell) to keep their education? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u339	Thank you very much, Member. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u340	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have three questions. The first of them. The Prime Minister criticized borrowing and depositing them. So will the government withdraw from the idea of borrowing from the Demographic Reserve Fund? Does the government realise that the planned amount of the loan could have disastrous consequences for the pensions of millions of Poles? Question two. When will the project work on the String ring road begin, which was to be included in the list of 100 bypasses? I'm asking about the Shooting Road, because the general management said that no bypass is likely to be there, but there will be only a remodeling of the roundabout. Question three, last one. When will the design work begin on the construction of the Kruszwica ring road? Currently, truck transport both in Strzelno and in Kruszwica runs through the center of these two very important cities in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u341	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Truism is to say that there is a crisis in health care. I think that the Prime Minister knows this very well, although in fact - as has already been said here - in his exposé he has spent very little time on it. I'm a doctor, a surgeon, an oncologist, practicing every day. I'm terrified to see what health care looks like today. We have the lowest share of GDP in financing healthcare in Europe. We also have a huge deficit when it comes to doctors. There's 60,000 missing. Doctors. The average age of nurses is over 50 years. All of this is actually a consequence of a low share of GDP. In my opinion, the Prime Minister has been misbehaving this cake for many years. It's still 4.7%. 6% The one you're talking about is somewhere in space, somewhere in the future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And time is today. Please try to change that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u343	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Unfortunately, the state sector is not as optimistic as you presented it, and it comes from an analysis of the results of the companies of the State Treasury and companies for the period 2015-2019. Over 4 years, there has been a significant reduction in the value of companies, and the greatest losses suffered by the State Treasury have occurred in the group of energy, chemical and raw materials companies. The lack of care for their own companies is the destruction of both the property of the State Treasury and a significant reduction in the resources of citizens allocated to their future pensions. So what is the issue of a significant decline in the value of the Treasury companies in relation to the government's vision of success? How are you going to heal the situation in this area? How do you intend to attract investors to return to investing in the stock market and to really improve the value of the capital actually raised by Poles for their future pension benefits? And please also answer in writing, when the construction of bypasses in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship starts: Sępólna Krajeńskiego (Dzwonek) and Kamień Krajńskiego in the Sępolenski district. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u345	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! After today's exposé, I come to believe that the key word that characterizes your political environment is the word "investigation," the unenforced mode. Just as Mr.Jarosław Kaczyński once a month came to the truth, so you have been approaching the principles of responsible development strategy for recent years, you are reaching the level of investment, the level of development established, the Central Communication Port, the ferry, even the RES recently you are beginning to come to, I think you are the only one who has stopped coming to Luxtorpeda. [[Joy in the courtroom, applause.]] The problem of Poland, the drama of Poland, is that the more you reach these goals, the more these goals move away from you. [[Applause]] Bravo! Unfortunately, this is how you will be remembered by Polish history, as a person who came to goals that were moving away more and more (the bell). Ma'am... Thank you very much, Member. Have you come to the conclusion that we have a climate crisis? [[Applause]] How's hockey in the fifth league?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. There's no envoy? No. Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Sustainability is probably best seen in detail and detail. Prime Minister, as a result, I have a question: Will your government continue to run the policy of pushing the Świętokrzyskie voivodship into the abyss of underdevelopment? This is the voivodship, which is in the section of government aid for the eastern wall. Neighborhoods such as e.g. Lubelskie - 9 billion from the state budget, Podkarpackie - 8, Kielce - 3... It's sacred, not kielce. ...sacrifice - 3. Almost $1,000. Hospital beds have been wiped out. There's infrastructure negligence. There, the country has a dominant political position. Actually, I should be happy because sooner or later it means change. But I was born there, and you're also family-related there. Please, Prime Minister, stop running politics (the bell) that says... Thank you. ...about sustainable development, and one of the voivodships on the map of Poland treats simply in an absolutely unacceptable way. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u349	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u350	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr Kaczyński spoke about his concern about the axiological void. Indeed, I must say that where there is axiological void, populism is certainly always growing there. You, Prime Minister, used big words. Everything in your speech was great. They were all back to normal, even a lot of things happened for the first time in your history. But you haven't actually given up your place in culture. And this is, as far as axiological issues are concerned, the basis. Lying or poorly formulated historical policy will not replace what axiology means, Prime Minister. You have long abandoned your axiology, you remain only in the sphere of empty words and ideas (The Bell), which divides Poles. And that's why I think it's worth it for your axiology policy to really be re-evaluated. Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u351	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u352	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In your exposé, you spoke of the Via Carpatia road. Prime Minister, I have a few questions for you. When will this road be built? When the inhabitants of the Podlaskie Voivodship will be able to enjoy... The platform... put it down for eight years. ...from the new ring road of Siemiaticz, from the new ring road of Bielsk Podlaski, from the new ring road of Zabłudov? But don't disturb me. I didn't bother you. Excuse me. And how did you vote in the European Parliament? What have you done for four years, Prime Minister, to make the S19 road in Podlaskie Voivodeship finally arise? At what stage are these works? When will the tenders be finalized? You were four years old. You didn't do anything to get this road built. Applause ...the decision you've frozen. Another thing I would like to ask you is the national road of the eight from Bialystok to Augustów. This is the way of death. Prime Minister, I would also like to ask when it will finally be built. Finally, the southern railway ring road of Bialystok. Will it (the bell) be followed by a trace that has been proposed, which runs through... [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] Thank you, sir. ...newly built houses of inhabitants of Podlaskie Voivodship? Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u353	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mark Owl, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. As you voted on Via Carpatia, you didn't answer. Mr, Mr Ring, please. I didn't bother you, man. Oh, you weren't interrupting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! There was little concrete in the exposé. [[Game in the courtroom, bell ringing.]] But one information and declaration deserves attention - the construction of 100 bypasses. I don't know if you know, but for the last four years you and Minister Adamczyk have personally blocked the construction of dozens of bypasses in Poland. [[Applause]] This is outrageous! Scandal! I ask myself: When will a list of bypasses be built? Why did you block the construction of the Zator ring road? Why did you block the construction of the Oświęcim ring road? Why did you block the construction of the Chelmc and New Sinclair ring road? Why are you blocking the construction of the Takeoff ring road? You can't drive after the projects. When will the list of bypasses be created ready to be realized? When are you gonna start the national road and highway construction program? For under your rule he was completely abandoned. 30 kilometers of highway is a shame. Yes, you should be ashamed of yourself, not boasting that you're doing anything. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u355	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Coalition, has the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member. And I'm asking you to be patient for a moment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u356	Thank you, Marshal. Prime Minister, I must say that I am impressed by how quickly you went from campaigning - when you promised so much in Silesia to us - until you forgot everything. We haven't heard a word of it, and you've been campaigning for a lot of events. You've seen what's going on in our Silesian cities. And it was your government that introduced a program that excluded cities such as Gliwice, such as Katowice, such as Rybnik, very polluted cities from the thermomodernization program. Today you're talking about ecology, that there should be clean air, and you're calling for this special man. But why aren't you referring to those things that directly concern us? Because we remember that. And also the issue of the Social Dialogue Council, which you have said today. Has a project such as the one concerning the abolition of the 30 times ZUS contribution been consulted at the Social Dialogue Council (Dzwonek), or was it a parliamentary project to avoid this consultation? Thank you, Member. And will he be consulted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u357	I invite Mrs Katarzyna Maria Bakerska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u358	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Four years ago, you promised to reform the judiciary. So? We have armagedon in court right now, armagedon. It's armagedon, indeed. I was doing... Mr President, I would like to ask for an extra time. There's a growing backlog in the courts. 16 million cases will be brought to court this year. But there's $4 million behind from last year. 700 judge's vacancies, 700 judge's vacancies, Prime Minister. It's really been an unprecedented situation for years. Over the last four years, this length of waiting for a sentence has increased by more than 40%, 40%. That is why I ask: When will the reforms be? But such reforms - not those reforms that you have proposed, which were really intended only to bring the courts closer together and make them dependent on power - which will reduce the waiting time for judgments in various cases, civil, family (the bell), economic ones. Thank you, Member. It's one thing. [[Applause]] And two: Did you draw the consequences, Prime Minister... Time's up. ...in relation to the people who were supposed to check on Mr. NIK Banasi's president? Thank you very much, Member. This is a very important matter from the state's point of view. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u359	Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You repeated the word "normality." Normality is credibility. What is the credibility of the candidate for the Prime Minister, who is the first Polish Prime Minister to be convicted of lying? That's a lie. What is the credibility of the man who was the finance minister who was the godfather of the career of President Banasi, who was the vice- minister of finance, head of the National Tax Administration? What is your credibility when it turns out that this Ministry of Finance operates the VAT-owska mafia, the fuel mafia operates, that the officials of the Ministry of Finance write official reports... It's not working anymore. He's already in court. ...about the activities of the fuel and VAT mafia inside the Ministry of Finance? And you're proposing a government where your colleague becomes Minister of Finance. His characteristic feature is that we know all about him after 50 years of age. His life starts at 50. Oh, that's great. What's your credibility? It's a Czech movie. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ha, ha, ha. You were wrong to participate in the velvety Czech revolution with participation in this Czech film. [[Applause]] Jarek, good. You were good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u361	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u362	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! You have spoken a lot about equality, freedom, solidarity, but, Prime Minister, your vision of Poland is a vision of Poland, which excludes, excludes specific social groups: activists, feminists, a minority of... Ha, ha, ha. Don't laugh. ... LGBT, environmentalists, people with disabilities, excludes women from life, excludes so many people that it is not a vision of solidarity Poland. Our strength lies in diversity, and you completely don't respect this diversity. Oh... Prime Minister! Energy. What is the energy mix for 2020, 2030 and 2040? What's the plan, a concrete energy mix? Women's rights, domestic violence. When to implement the anti-violence convention? When is the real fight against domestic violence, the isolation of the perpetrator from the victim, the change in the definition of rape, the implementation of the definition of economic violence? You were talking about solidarity, about freedom. What about the judgment of the Court on persons with disabilities? Prime Minister! What about Silesia? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Would you consider Silesian to be a regional language? [[Applause]] No...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u363	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Głogowski, the Coalition... Excuse me, Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u364	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The state can't be a night watchman sleeping on duty. That's what you said. I think you fell asleep about Banas. And about the meetings of Prime Minister Kopacz and the criminals. [[Applause]] Oh, look. Therefore, my... Prime Minister, I'm sorry, Prime Minister Szydło. [[Applause]] Bravo. Oh. So... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We've all seen Prime Minister Szydło dating criminals, and we're seeing the Banas case. I therefore have a question, Prime Minister. At gas stations and cemeteries. Do the special forces carry out counter-intelligence protection for members of the government and, in your opinion, should the person who was convicted by judgment of the court for exceeding powers coordinate the special forces? That's one thing. Secondly, you like to brag about promises that are financed by local governments. Poznań lost PLN 275 million as a result of the government's decision... And how much did he gain? Will there be a refund of that money? Do you still want to destroy Polish local governments? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u365	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Głogowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u366	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Speaking of health services, the Prime Minister spoke of how much expenditure has increased for health care in recent years, while the Prime Minister has left out the issue of expenditure - especially in county hospitals - and these volumes have been falling apart dramatically in recent years. I can talk about it in the example of a hospital in my city whose income and expenses have been balanced over the years. For several years it has had several million losses per year and this is due to specific reasons, because the government is imposing increases for specific medical professional groups, giving money after many months, if any. This is due, unfortunately, to the introduction of a very bad solution, namely a network of hospitals. This solution - a network of hospitals - led to the patient being a problem for the hospital, that the fewer hospitals, the better, and hospitals, of course, are happy to provide health care and do not receive the so-called. Over-execution. My question is: What are the ideas for helping county hospitals that are increasingly in debt by the state? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u367	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u368	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! In your speech, you boasted about the construction of apartments within the framework of the apartment+. Prime Minister, how can you not be ashamed to tell such things? You know very well that living + is a complete failure. You've created a housing system like the PRL. Then it didn't work, it didn't work now. Prime Minister! Take an example from other countries, Great Britain, France. This really is a better example than the PRL times. If you do not have this information, I will make it available. This is the first case. I ignore the fact that you have closed a prosperous and very successful programme of living for young people just because it was introduced by the government of PO-PSL. That's how he's holding you. All that was well done for this government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u369	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u370	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You spoke in your exposé about upgrading and remodeling 9,000. km of railway lines. Therefore, I have two questions. What about the modernization of railway lines from Wrocław to Oleśnica, as well as from Wrocław to Głogów? It's about this line, the upholstery that you should know perfectly well, running through the Lower Bank and the Bulls. Second question: How does this modernization apply to deleted connections within the Wrocław Metropolitan Area? I will remind you that in Lower Silesia these connections are operated by the Lower Silesia Railways. It's not... This, of course, is the province where you co-manage. How does this apply to the modernisation and exclusion of communication, which you often talk about? In addition, I have a question: Prime Minister, when are you going to adopt the metropolitan law for which cities such as Krakow, Warsaw, Łódź, Poznań, Gdansk and of course Wrocław are waiting, which you know well and in which you live? When are you gonna help cities solve their communication and transport problems? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u371	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u372	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! It's good to be on the bench, isn't it? You've talked a lot about seniors. It was them who had the first meeting of the Civic Senior Parliament here on 1 October 2015. A year later, on 1 October 2016, the meeting of this parliament was not held because seniors were expelled from the House of the Polish Parliament. That's one thing. Second, geriatrics. This country, by introducing a law on hospital networks, you destroyed geriatrics. Today, there are two geriatrics per million Poles. That is not enough, Prime Minister, you have signed an order under which by June 2018 there should be a new system of case law, or at least information on how to take care of independent people. To this day, this system has not been created. People for a one-time service will not care for themselves when they are independent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're the one who threw away the bill... Thank you, Member. ...about people who are independent. When will this system be established? [[Applause]] You were eight years old.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u373	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, PSL-Kukiz15, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u374	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! There are a lot of things you haven't said in your exposé, Prime Minister. You did not refer to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which came just before you entered the forum. You forgot your promise to solve the problems concerning franc credits that were made by Law and Justice four years ago. A lot of people fell for it. This problem is also solved by the European Union for you. You didn't mention that you promised to raise the tax-free amount for everyone. But the most eloquent year of the Nobel Prize for Poles, Mrs Olga Tokarczuk, Wrocław women, in any case Lower Silesia women, was a complete silence about culture. Does your government really have nothing to propose for the next four years about the Polish culture, which is so successful and brings pride to Poland and Poles? Prime Minister, perhaps it is better to look at the achievements of Deputy Prime Minister Gliński in the government of Mrs Szydło (The Bell) and your government. You'd better not offer anything... Thank you, sir. ...Better stay away from culture. Thank you. Thank God there's no...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u375	Thank you, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u376	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Many people in this room spoke a lot during the discussion about health care, unfortunately often mixing various facts and competences. Therefore, it is worth mentioning a few facts. It was during the reign of the Civic Platform and the PSL that the local government closed down - more branches than during the rule of law and justice. As far as medical personnel are concerned, now, during the PiS regime, there are more 11,000 employees and working doctors, and 17,000 nurses. Does that mean everything's okay? No. Of course, many things need to be changed and improved. A lot of good things happen. It's a matter of computerization that you haven't been able to handle for eight years. Many other actions that have been undertaken, which are now in pilot programmes. All this is happening, and I invite you - instead of criticism - to cooperate... Thank you, sir. ...in the Health Committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u377	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of MEPs has been exhausted. I'm gonna call a break right now. And the answers? Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister needs to prepare himself for your questions, right? I'm declaring a time-out. 8:45. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 25 hours 20 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 9 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the programme of action of the Council of Ministers with a request for a vote of confidence. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these questions, for this long discussion, you can say. That's a lot of different questions. I have tried to group them together within a few large areas that have been moved by you on many sides here. I'm going to start with what was probably the most common thing here, namely the subject of taxes, and corporate taxes. This topic was of great interest to both members of the Confederation and Members of the Left, but also to the Civic Platform. And I have to say, half a joke, half a joke, half a joke, that I love listening to the voices of the Civic Platform that claim to have a CIT tax. I don't know if you've been following up on the situation with regard to this tax, the budget receipts, for eight years of your governments. The CIT tax in 2007 was at a higher level, in total and for local governments - because I also respond to issues related to local governments - attention than after 8 years, i.e. 8 years passed, the revenues of companies increased by 50%, 70%, 80% in some sectors, and CIT stood still, and even this amount fell in the context of CIT, from what affected the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! So, the devil is wearing an ornament and his tail is ringing at Mass, it's not a strong enough proverb to say in relation to the issue of this tax. [[Applause]] But I also have some very good news. I would like to say that within three years of the changes that have been made to corporations - and why corporations, too, in a moment I will prove - the revenue from this tax has increased from 34 to 34.5 billion to almost 50 billion. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation: 8 years of stagnation, even a decrease of 0.5 billion and 3 And you have the courage here, so to speak, a citizen's... Celebrity. I didn't mean that. ...to say that in our day, CIT tax on corporations is limping. I'm very sorry, but this is one of the absolute greatest successes. And I'm going to prove that this is from a corporation, not from small and medium-sized companies, because in our day, we've reduced the CIT burden. [[Applause]] from 19% to 9% just for small and medium-sized companies. This was not enough, there were also questions related to other reliefs, other forms of tax burden, so I am rushing here to tell you that we are increasing the possibilities of flat-rate clearing, but also accounting for CIT and accounting for favourable depreciation from this level, which would apply, up to EUR 2 million in the end. Thus, revenues from those who account for themselves in the form of CIT fall in the budget when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises. And here is the most important part, so to speak, hidden our philosophy. The vast majority of small and medium-sized companies are what companies? These are Polish companies. And, of course, we cannot discriminate: Polish tax, and German tax, because it is unacceptable in the European Union. We therefore divide this into income levels, into turnover levels. Depending on this, we are allowed to use different boundaries, different interest rates, at different levels of CIT interest rates. So the CIT tax is one of the main sources of income that we finance our social policy, the health care that I'm about to talk about, antismog policy, the education that I'm about to talk about. And it really is something to be proud of. Ladies and gentlemen! Now it's a part of it, because there's also two or three votes on VAT. Because VAT at the time of 8 years of government, the Platform increased by PLN 21 billion, and you raised this tax from 22% to 23%, i.e. by one percentage point, i.e. approx. 4.5%. That means that if you were to subtract this raise, it would be about an increase. 13, 14 billion. But let's just leave it at that. Make it 20 billion. Over the last four years, our governments have had an increase in VAT revenue of 60 billion. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Words have been said a few times about a criminal group in the Ministry of Finance. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, a person employed for 4 months has been quickly identified by internal services and a given pathological case, which, of course, deserves the highest condemnation, has been eliminated. This crime may have actually involved a loss of several million. Just a few million. How do you want to compare this country with the VAT gap you generated in your time of government? [[Applause]] The European Commission stated that it amounted to around 30 billion. How can such data be compared? So, ladies and gentlemen, let's work together as patriots now. Together. I call on you not to overstep the morale of the Ministry of Finance, because it's the money of the entire society. You're trying to make this morale really weaken. Please, let's finish today. There was a debate, and 50 times you actually tried to push us in, but let's just close it because it's like a little bow tie to a big elephant when it comes to those losses that were in your day. And we were able to solve this huge VAT gap to a large extent. Of course, in every country, even the most effective, it occurs on some level. But we've eliminated it to a large extent. I'll tell you more, ladies and gentlemen. This is one of the main sources of our great success. Everyone wonders how it is possible that public debt falls to GDP, the budget deficit falls and at the same time spends more on social expenditure, on development expenditure, on the local government fund. You're surprised at that. That's the explanation for this big mystery. [[Applause]] There were many voices about education here. I'll say, ladies and gentlemen, based on hard numbers, on the hardest I can say here. Naked facts. Four years of civil platform rule. The level of grants to local governments. You've been calling it self-government. Self-governments know exactly that. Grants to local governments. Eight years. 4 years, 2011. Growth - from 36.9 billion to 40.4 billion PLN, or 3.5 billion PLN. 12 billion in eight years. And before that? Don't lie to me, Minister. Four years of law and justice. Growth - from 40,4, coming out of the same number, to 49,7. The Prime Minister's lying. Ladies and gentlemen! Just see these numbers. In one year, an increase of 3.8 billion. Over 4 years - 3.5 billions. [[Applause]] Where were your self-governments then, your shouts: for a small donation? Let's compare apples with apples. I'm comparing four years of your rule to four years of our rule. So almost a 10-billion-dollar increase in spending on education subsidies. And I'm just quoting these naked facts. Another thing from the same repertoire, from the same category. Well, this is where five or six votes came in, about that much, about the funding of local governments, right? This part of the financing of local governments, which is dependent on central taxes, i.e. the CIT and PIT tax, the PIT tax almost halfway, 49% with a hook - this part in 4 years increased by about 20 billion PLN. I say about, 'cause a year isn't over yet. 20 billion PLN and more for our CIT sealing policy, PIT sealing, liquidation - to some extent of course - of the grey zone. And that's why local governments have a huge increase in income from these two taxes. For 8 years the Civic Platform has been at the level of PLN 12 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, compare now. And as you say, local government... You referred to Lublin, Cracow, other cities. Krakow? I can give you - 46%. the increase in income from these taxes only, and in the times of the Civic Platform - 22%. So it's really worth appreciating the tax efficiency, the effectiveness of what we're doing, because the governments you've been asking for are the beneficiaries. [[Applause]] I'm going to a few more or more questions now than just a few more specific questions. There was a question here several times about electromobility, about buses, about electric cars. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you something that I think everyone will enjoy. I do not know if you know that Poland is the largest exporter of lithium-ion batteries, i.e. what is the heart of an electric car, in Europe. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So it's a success. Success. Ba, we've got the biggest lithium-ion battery factory today at the same time. It sounds like it's quite simple, but it's one of the most advanced products in terms of the whole field of electromobility, and at the same time highly advanced technology. So let's be happy that this program is already producing results. And what will happen by 2025, as Minister Tchórzewski said about it 1 million cars, then let us wait. Until this year 2025, there's a little bit of time. The number of electric buses, hybrid cars, electric cars is growing very strongly, and I am very happy about it. Currently, PAIH supports 21 projects in the electromobility industry, so this is very good news in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! There were many questions about health care, detailed questions about the number of specialists, nurses. Well, what I'm saying is that for the four years we've ruled, there's been an increase in the number of doctors in our entire health system by 11,000 and nurses by 17,000. How long did it take to retire? For the first time in many years, more nurses have appeared who have received a certificate of right to work than those who have completed their studies or nursing studies. So we have concrete, we have a result. [[Applause]] There were questions about hospice expenses, palliative care. Growth over 4 years from around 400 million, 414 million, to 800 million. Two Members asked this question, so I answer that of course this money is never too much, because these are people in dramatic condition, but in four years this increase occurred, this increase was very visible. You continued to ask about the total expenditure on hospital debt. I'll talk to you about that in a minute. I have talked about these total expenditures before, but it is worth noting, so that I thank you for these questions. Out of PLN 70 billion, health expenditure increased to 105, 106 billion, or by more than 50% over 4 years. This is a great financial effort and efficiency in collecting, of course, also PIT tax, reduction of the grey zone, so a very positive trend. And that's not the end of it, because you can, you can also compare it with GDP, just like we've been comparing it for a dozen years, which is GDP that's already closed, verified, as you've compared it in your time. And here the growth occurred from approx. 4,4,45 to 5,05. So there is already a disproportionate increase in health expenditure. That, of course, there is still a great deal to be done here, that there are many deficits in the area of health care, it is I, of course, who share this view, that we have to do as much as possible, but I want to address one thing in particular. You were talking about the hospital debt. It's been here a dozen times, I think. 14 billion. Did you know that this debt was higher in the days of the Civic Platform when we inherited from you the situation in health care in a grieving state? The debt of hospitals was PLN 11 billion and this PLN 11 billion in proportion to the income of the NFZ is higher, because this is about 33% than the debt you were talking about today. What do you say? [[Applause]] You were talking about the ZUS, about the PIT tax, about the various taxes. I don't think some of the questions were written before my speech, before my exposé, but maybe four years ago you wrote yourself some of the questions, [[Applause]] because there is no tax on a good case that we have not reduced, and we have reduced PIT and CIT in an unprecedented way. We have reduced the PIT tax for all 24 million PIT payers from 18% to 17%, i.e. by more than 5%, by 1 percentage point, but by more than 5%, mathematically speaking. At the same time, we have reduced the tax by raising revenue costs two and a half times - you know that - and we have reduced the tax for all people up to 26 years old to zero. [[Applause]] And even from this speaker, Members of the opposition praised this project. Thank you very much. For the first time in several years, over 20 reductions and exemptions have been increased in 2018. Local companies, domestic companies use it, for example. artists because these reliefs have been applied to different groups. Students, non-registered activities, non-discriminatory activities, so-called. run in ZUS, i.e. to zero lowered ZUS for all who start business. The state gives people. Up to zero lowered ZUS since the issue of the first invoice, i.e. so for a good cause you can start business and only somewhere after 8,9 months pay the first ZUS at the level of 30% a flat-rate contribution. So there's a significant relief here. But in addition, on Thursday, the Council of Ministers will have a project that we were talking about before the elections, and according to our motto that the promises given to voters are sacred, we will keep that promise. [[Applause]] There will be a project of a small ZUS, which means lowering the ZUS for those who have a income of up to 6 thousand. zł, their income does not exceed 6 thousand. PLN and revenue 10,000. zł. So the lowered ZUS, PIT, CIT, as well as this fourth tax, this biggest tax - VAT. Through the VAT matrix we also reduced this tax for many products, especially food products. Ladies and gentlemen! The question was, who's gonna be treating these renovated hospitals? Well, as I said, you can't compensate for the huge deficits and losses that took place over the 20 and 25 years of transformation when it left, as it's estimated, 20 and 30 thousand. Doctors. So poor Poland paid rich Sweden, rich Germany, rich England. I don't like it either. I don't like it very much. But you can't educate doctors in 1 year or 2 years. We're taking $3,000 today. more doctors than in the days of the Civic Platform and PSL. [[Applause]] That's an increase of 6,000. About 9,000. And of course, medical training lasts 6 years, then specialization - 8, 9, 10 years. So it's because of us. Therefore, we must wait. But today, like I said five minutes ago, 11,000. Doctors work more in health care. That's the honest, honest answer to that question. Yeah, it's coming out. You also asked about the budget, especially in the context of this 30-fold, which, I understand, part of the High House was against. Well, I think that 30 times creates such a situation that we have an unfair, one of the most progressive tax systems in Europe. That is why we have tried for the second time to bring this to the High House and we are opting for this degressivity to be eliminated. No, it was a parliamentary project, sir. However, at this stage this work is being suspended so far, it will be further consulted. And the NSZZ, and the employers, and part of the United Right, really want to discuss this project, so I refer to it in a way on the one hand - which today often fell from this speaker - axiological, on the other hand practical. Axiologically: Yes, this 30 times makes it unfair for less earners. That is why Law and Justice wanted to minimize this injustice, to eliminate it. [[Applause]] And there was a question in this context about the budget deficit. Well, we will try to maintain our proposal for a balanced budget despite this. That's 13 billion for health care... This will, of course, be much more difficult, because, as we reported in April, never hiding anything from this source would have affected about 5.3 billion net. more to the FUS, so less in subsidies from the budget to the Social Insurance Fund. This is what it looks like today, but we will try to do everything we can to maintain a balanced budget. As you may remember, in the public finance sector... We have already planned 0.4 of the SFP deficit in this budget and the budget at a sustainable level. And we will try to keep this budget sustainable. That's how we get in this year. [[Applause]] We will also see in many other fields how we can carry out our sealing plans. There was a question, many questions about renewable energy sources, about smog. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say very clearly here that our government has implemented all the demands that were indicated by the Polish Smog Alert 3 years ago. Read those postulates. They were shown as big unfinished business. I really love listening to the Civic Platform, which a year ago by the European Court of Justice, which, they love very much, right, has been critically criticized... They've been disciplined. Judgment of the Court of 22 February 2018 - I refer to that judgment. And today we're being warned about smog issues. So once again I emphasize: Polish Smog Alert, 3 years ago - all very difficult demands were realized. We have introduced coal quality standards so that consumers are not deceived. And the smog's gone. Smog's gone. We've eliminated the worst, as it is commonly said, cougars. We have introduced the possibility of setting up clean transport zones and we have introduced two major programmes: "Clean air," which is developing so that there are already about 80 and 90 thousand. conclusions. And again: very beautiful, of course it could be 200,000, but in your time it was 0. [[Applause]] It's a lie. That's a lie. And for the record, I'm going to add my current, which is very beautifully growing - my current, which is a prosumer program that shows what a good, healthy, smart connection is on one side of energy security, and on the other hand, that energy is becoming cleaner and cleaner and cleaner. There was a question about the tax on digital platforms and you were accusing us of submitting to anybody's will here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a tax which, for a few months now, you may not know, is being discussed, it is enough to look at the transcripts, which I have also raised in the European Council. And we have information from the European Commission that in the coming months the European Commission intends to propose one digital tax for the whole of the European Union. We are looking forward to this proposal and we will be very happy to implement it, of course. And if this tax is not implemented at the level of the European Union as a whole, of course we will apply our own law here and implement such a tax so that it is fair that the corporations from which I started this speech, the foreign ones, who are still not paying tax enough - because of course there are still such cases, of course - that they pay taxes where they run a large part of their business, which is also in Poland. [[Applause]] There was a question about specific investments. The Prime Minister of Gliński is. Prime Minister Gliński has provided me with a list of investments that have already been completed because you emphasized that you want completed investments... But it was also started by you. ...and in the world of culture, so that as much as possible here in the world of culture can happen. That's what I want, too. First, the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Defensive War. Second, the Museum... Where's the ending? It's over! ... The Eastern lands of the Old Republic - the property was bought, the concept of the exhibition is being developed. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The museum... It's over. ... It's sandy. The House Museum... It's over! The Sand Museum - purchased property, the collection of documentation is ongoing. Museum of Pilecki Family House in Ostrów Mazowiecka - building completed, works on the exhibition are underway. Museum of Oświęcim Land - the documentation is being completed. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ha, ha, ha. The Sibir Museum in Bialystok... I want it finished. ...yes, support from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage will be co-financed by the Ministry of Culture. Is there any way? Airport? The road? We have a number of cultural investments, about 20, if I remember correctly, which have been taken over for co-financing by the central budget. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, this is also thanks to this tax sealing, which was so beautifully carried out in the National Tax Administration. Thank you very much to all the treasurers. [[Applause]] There was then a question about inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the GUS data. Prices very many and groceries year by year went down, a small number of vegetables went up... What's down? ...I admit, although in recent months they've been a bit cheap again. Electricity - minus 6%. It's getting cheaper. Minus 6%, please take a look at the Main Statistical Anniversary. Then the prices of telecommunications services, the prices of financial services - all these prices, very important for the basket, stood. Cheaper. It's getting cheaper. Fuel prices - they stood. So where do you, ladies and gentlemen, have this big, giant inflation? On a few products that I would like very much, of course, not to be expensive, and we do everything possible, but we have a free market. Do you want us to go back to the central warrant economy? That's not what you're after. Well, that's what you did. Therefore, today we are dealing with relatively low inflation. I wish it was a little lower. It is a market value. And you asked me about next year - it's supposed to be 2.5% next year. that is precisely the inflationary objective of the National Bank of Poland. The yeast is. Then there was the question of whether we were going to keep our promise on the minimum price... minimum wage, I'm sorry. Of course I do. For next year we have already defined this, 17 zł - hourly rate, 2600 zł and for the next year - 3000 zł, as of course we have defined it in the sequence of increases which was presented. So how many teachers are gonna make? There was a question about Estonian CIT, so let me explain. This is a shift in tax collection at the moment when the owners profit, i.e. from the point of view of a longer period, perhaps there will be no loss of income at all. In the first period the estimates are from PLN 2.5.3.5 billion, but we intend to implement this probably in the second half of next year or since 2021, this needs to be well worked out. Yes, we want to mobilise as much Polish capital as possible, this capital, which is in the accounts of the owners of companies. Two hundred and dozen billion zlotys, which I hope, thanks to such activities as Estonian CIT, will serve companies well and help to increase investment. There was also a question of why, in our governments, there is so little change. whether such a small impact of the pending cases, the preparatory proceedings, the effectiveness of the prosecutor's office. I'm gonna give you a few numbers here, 'cause I think it's best to lean on them. There is an increase in the number of preparatory proceedings opened - from 556 in 2015 to 683 in 2018. Significant is the increase in the number of completed cases - from 834 thousand. up to 1 million 76 thousand, i.e. this shows an increase in efficiency in a few dimensions. You also talked about the indictment file. We have a significant increase in the number of indictments - from 179 thousand. to 238,000, and the decrease in the number of acquitted persons - from 6701 to 5898. So it's not like the D.A.'s office is asleep, it's not doing anything, it's supposed to be working, it's not handing these cases over to the courts. However, in courts, of course, we need a deep reform, and we have been talking about it for four years. We certainly need further reform at all levels, and very well. You also asked about the TSUE's sentence. It is very good that the European Court of Justice has understood that, in general, judicial reform is the competence of the Member States and will remain so. [[Applause]] Bravo! What a cynicism. Ladies and gentlemen! There are also many specific questions about the ring road from this speaker. I think there were questions about twenty-several bypasses. Let us, in accordance with our promise to 100 days after the start of our governments in the second term of office, present a complete plan for the implementation of at least 100 bypasses, then you will surely find out which of these bypasses, where and at what rate they will be implemented. We asked about the witness. I answer the opposition's questions mainly, and I will also answer one question from Mrs Lichocka. Are we going to translate this efficiency and efficiency of our tax system into Europe? We would very much like, and indeed we have been speaking out loud about this in the European Union for a few years, that these are - as I said during the exposé - elephants in peace, really. Ladies and gentlemen! Look at it this way, the European Union's annual budget of PLN 155 billion, the European Commission itself says that it loses so much from VAT... Euro. ...euro, euro, euro. That's what they lose on VAT, and that's how much they lose on CIT. Well, if that's not the elephant in the living room, I don't know what an elephant is. So we're going to try, of course, to reschedule our knowledge, our experience, our skills. I am very often asked about this by the Prime Ministers of other countries, how such success in sealing in such a short time was possible. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just finishing up because I know there's a game, and I think we're running a 1:0, right? It's 1:1. Oh, that's not good, that's bad, like 1:1, that's... [[Speech outside the microphone, applause]] All your numbers are the same... Ladies and gentlemen! As we are going to do - the question has also been asked - to increase innovation, to increase R &amp; D expenditure. I will refer briefly to this biggest jump in the history of probably the Third Republic, and certainly 20 years, because we have checked so much very thoroughly. It's a 25% increase in expenses. After all, this magical number of 1% GDP could not be exceeded for many years. We've exceeded it and spending on research, we've exceeded development, and today it's 1.2%. GDP. So we are moving very firmly, firmly towards more and more innovation, because we do not want to be a country, we do not want to be a cheap labour country. We want to be a country where Poles will earn as decently as possible, they will actually be able to break out of this trap of medium development. And in order to be successful, we need this, and I will end with this buckle, which you also talked about, and why I also spent a lot of time in my exposé. We need a coherent, courageous pro-family, pro-human policy. That's the main instrument in the plan, and it's 500+. And the best proof again is the policy or plans, demographic forecasts of the Central Statistical Office just before 4 and 5 years ago, which predicted that in 2018 345 thousand would be born. children. It was born, if I remember correctly, 45 and 48 thousand. children more. [[Applause]] Bravo! So a medium-sized Polish city. Thanks to pro-family politics, pro-popularity politics. This, of course, does not satisfy us, it is not all, but we want the Polish people to grow, and it also grows in terms of the number of their citizens, their inhabitants. And we will do everything we can to achieve this, because a strong Polish nation, strong Poland is our main goal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u379	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in a moment. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted proposals for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, as well as the selection of the personal composition of the Commission for Special Services, prints Nos 20 and 21. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. The Group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Solidarity Fund Act for Disabled Persons and certain other laws. The design is 13 and 13-A prints. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the excise duty Act, print No 15. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that item 13 of the agenda has become pointless as a result of the withdrawal by the applicants of the draft law amending the Social Insurance Act and certain other laws. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Selection of the personal composition of the Commission for Special Services (Print No 21). The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Senior Convention, pursuant to Article. Article 137 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have submitted a proposal for the selection of the personal composition of the Commission for Special Services. Let me remind you that the Sejm has adopted a resolution in which it has determined the number of members of this committee by seven. The Sejm pursuant to Article. Article 137 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be elected by a joint vote. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. There's a question. The discussion is closed. There's a question, Marshal. There you go. Time - 1 minute, sir. Christopher, come on.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We were asking a question about that. The principle of democratic control over special services assumes that all political forces, at least the main political forces, should have a representative in the Commission for Special Services. We were told, Your Marshal, that the rule committee had not established itself, and therefore it is not yet possible to speak about the extension of the committee so that someone from the Confederation could fit into it. I would like to ask whether, in view of the fact that the situation has changed and there is already a rule-making committee, it is possible to consider the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm so that the Commission for Special Services can be enlarged by one or two persons, so that all political forces have at least one representative in this committee, which is very important - once again I will emphasise - from the point of view of the principle of democratic control over special services, which certainly all the options depend on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u381	I should like to inform you that there is no initiative on this issue, we are under the current rules, and therefore I cannot accept this proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 21 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The vote was 439 against - 11, no one abstained. The Sejm has chosen the personal composition of the Special Service Committee. I would like to inform you that according to the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be convened by the first meeting of the Special Service Committee in the Conference Room. Jack Kuronia, building F, 15 minutes after the vote. We continue to consider item 9 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the programme of action of the Council of Ministers with a request for a vote of confidence. The Sejm listened to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki and held a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 154 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm adopts a vote of absolute confidence by a majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request of the Prime Minister of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to give a vote of confidence to the Council of Ministers will want to raise his hand and press the button. It's not working. It's not working. That's right, it doesn't work. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's working. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. Za - 237, against - 214, 3 Members abstained. By an absolute majority, the Sejm gave a vote of confidence to the Council of Ministers. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] Some Members chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew! [[Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki receives a bouquet of flowers]] Thank you very much. I congratulate the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 20). The Sejm Bureau, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) The 12 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? Mr. Marshal Terlecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u382	Your Marshal, I am making a formal request to exclude from the voting block a motion for the formation of the Committee on Public Finance and a separate vote on all the candidates. It's the opposite voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u383	It's the opposite voice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We know this practice from the previous term of the Sejm. I thought we had it behind us. There were beautiful words about good cooperation between the majority and the opposition. And that is always the reason for the minority, the opposition - this is information for colleagues who are here for the first time - to prevent the membership of the committee from being supplemented according to the parity that the club is entitled to. Here are applications submitted to the Committee on Public Finance by individual clubs, they fill in club parities and we should respect all of this. These previous inter-club arrangements should be respected and recognised also by the majority. If it is that one of the clubs has exceeded the parity, then this information should also be provided earlier. I ask you to respect here the willingness to work the opposition also in committees where the seats are held according to the parities resulting from the size of the club and according to what we agreed earlier. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u385	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u386	Mrs. Marshal! In connection with this formal request, I explain... In what mode? I haven't heard a voice yet. Mr... The Parliament of the Civic Coalition is 11 Members of the Committee on Public Finance. You've got 17 of them, so you're way out of parole, so don't shed crocodile tears here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u387	Thank you very much, sir. But that's not true. Corrigendum. No, thank you. No, there is no discussion, sir. We shall proceed to the vote on the formal motion submitted. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a separate vote on the changes in the Committee on Public Finance will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 236 was in favor, against - 216, 2 abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We are voting on the cancellation of Anna Pieczarka. Question. Question. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of dismissing Anna Pieczarka from the composition of the Committee on Public Finances would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 336, 49 - against, 37 stopped. I state that the Sejm has withdrawn the Member from the committee. We are voting on the appointment of Mr Dariusz Kurzawa. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Dariusz Kurzawa as a member of the Committee on Public Finances would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. For - 194, against - 246, 15 stopped. I state that the Sejm has not called you. We are voting on the appointment of Jerzy Materna. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Jerzy Materna as a member of the Public Finance Committee would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. It was 246, 189 against, with a hold of 8. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has appointed a Member. We are voting on the appointment of Mr Suchon. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Mirosław Suchon as a member of the Public Finance Committee would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. For - 203, against - 246, 5 stopped. I state that the Sejm has not called you. We are voting on the appointment of Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski as a member of the Public Finance Committee would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. For - 247, 201 - against, 7 stopped. I state that the Sejm has appointed a Member. [[Applause]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 20, along with the changes adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 381 was for, against - 37, 12 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a two-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen, please, for a moment, to the dark living room of the Senior Convention. If you'll excuse me for a moment, you're all in the courtroom. You're welcome. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 40 hrs. 21 min 48]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons and some other laws (prints no. 13 and 13-A). I would like to ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present the reasons for the bill and the self-correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Prime Minister... Hold on, Member, one more second. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are not interested, I would ask you very much to move the talks to the quacks to allow you to speak. You're welcome. Yes. I present to the High Sejm a draft law amending the Solidarity Fund Act for the Support of Persons with Disabilities from Print No. 13. Ladies and gentlemen! The Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities was introduced by the Government of Law and Justice this year into the legal order as a state special purpose fund with no legal personality, which is aimed at social, professional and health support for persons with disabilities. Then it's Art. 9 in the Mother's Act, the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act, for which you did not vote from the opposition at the time... I will remind you of the following text of the article. 9: The Minister for Social Security may transfer the amounts provided for in the Fund's financial plan for the financing of specific tasks and the financing of new tasks not provided for in the Financial Plan in the event of their implementation by law. In the proposed amendment to the Act, we propose an extension of the catalogue of benefits and tasks paid out by the Fund. According to the draft law, the Fund will finance one-off annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners together with the costs of handling these benefits. At the same time, the project provides that the social pension and the funeral allowance, which is payable to the person receiving the social pension in the event of garbage, together with the cost of service, change the source of funding. The solutions adopted in the proposed proposal promote the concentration and coordination of tasks related to the implementation of benefits paid by the Social Insurance Institution and the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund within one unit of the public finance sector, i.e. the Solidarity Fund. Therefore, the proposed law proposes a new name, which is appropriate to the scope of the tasks carried out, i.e. the Solidarity Fund. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 3 of the draft law scope of the provision in question. 3 (1) (a) 1a has been adapted to the extended range of financial support from the Fund. It provides for the possibility for the fund manager to borrow non-interest-bearing loans, including loans from the State budget, with the agreement of the Minister responsible for public finances. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 4 of the draft law in connection with the extension of the catalogue of benefits from the article. Article 6b (6) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 which will be financed by the Fund, it has been indicated that the funds of the Fund shall also cover the financing of a single annual cash benefit to pensioners and the costs of handling the payment of the benefit and the social and funeral allowances and the costs of handling them referred to in Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 27 June 2003 on social disability. It must be stressed that the fund will finance the benefits referred to in the Social Pensions Act, together with the costs of handling them, i.e. the social pension, as well as the funeral allowance, which, in accordance with Article. 12a paragraph. 1 of the above-mentioned law is payable by the Social Insurance Institution and KRUS in the event of the death of the person receiving the social pension. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 (4) of the draft law was also amended by the provision of Article. Article 6b (6) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2, specifying that the Minister responsible for social security will transfer funds to the Fund for the financing of the expenditure referred to in paragraph 2. 1, to separate bank accounts of ZUS and KRUS within a time limit allowing payment of these benefits. According to your mouth. 3 appropriations will be transferred on the basis of contracts concluded between the Minister responsible for Social Security and the President of the Social Insurance Institution and the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund respectively. Art. Point 1 (5) of the draft law clarifies that the funds of the Fund for the financing of the expenditure referred to in Article. Article 6b (6) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 transferred to the separate bank accounts of the Social Insurance Institution and the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund shall be the cost of the fund, provided that the payment of the benefits referred to in Article. Article 6b (6) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1, will be implemented by the Social Insurance Institution and the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, as indicated by the wording of Article. Article 6b (6) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: from 2 to 4. The coordination of support and the provision of funding for this purpose will take place within a single fund and should therefore constitute the costs of the Solidarity Fund. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 (6) of the draft law amended the introduction to the calculation and point 1 of Article. 36 setting the maximum limit for expenditure resulting from the financial consequences of the Act. The proposed amendment is linked to the need to ensure coordination of the Fund's tasks through substantive, financial, legal and administrative support. The maximum expenditure limit will be increased in 2019 and 2028. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 7 of the draft law on the addition of an article. 36a contains a transitional provision applicable until 2019 relating to matters relating to the implementation of a single pension benefit for pensioners as referred to in Article. 2 (2) 1 Act of 4 April 2019 on one-off payment to pensioners. These measures should be considered as the costs of the Solidarity Fund, in accordance with the system-based solution adopted, that the Solidarity Fund is responsible for the implementation of the abovementioned benefits to pensioners, which is reflected in the revised provisions of the Fund Act. Designed provision of the article. 36a provides a legal basis for the performance of specific technical activities aimed, inter alia, at: reimbursement of expenditure incurred in 2019 by the Social Insurance Fund in connection with the payment of a single pension benefit to pensioners. This solution will not affect the status of the Demographic Reserve Fund as the loss of the loan will be supplemented by the payment of the State budget blocked in Part 73: Social Insurance Institution. On the other hand, in the following article. 36b the possibility of amending the financial plan is introduced in order to allow for the implementation of a single payment for pensioners, a social pension with a funeral allowance, excluding the provisions of the Public Finance Act relating to changes in the special-purpose fund plans. The proposed amendments to the name of the fund and the title of the law make it necessary to amend other legal acts of the law. In the opinion of the designers, the subject of the proposed regulation is not contrary to European Union law. The draft law shall not be required to present to the competent authorities, institutions of the European Union, including the European Central Bank, for the purpose of obtaining an opinion, notification, consultation or agreement. The bill will not affect the activities of medium, small and micro-entrepreneurs. In summary, the amended law does not restrict, eliminate, differentiate support for people with disabilities. It extends the circle of persons entitled to benefit from the Solidarity Fund, which will undoubtedly be welcomed by the group of persons set out in the Act. High Izbo! I move that the bill be submitted for further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u389	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft law amending the Solidarity Fund for Disabilities and some other laws provides the legal basis for extending the fund's functions and changing its name to a more appropriate one for new tasks, to the Solidarity Fund. The main purpose of the funds raised by the existing Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, as the name indicates, is to support people with disabilities. On the occasion of this project, it is said that the change introduced by the parliamentary bill on which we are proceeding will reduce the funds of the fund for the needs of people with disabilities. High Izbo! Every year we raise benefits for people with disabilities and their families. The social pension in 2018 compared to 2015 increased by around 48%, the care provision - by 31%, the care allowance by 40%, has not been changed for 12 years. Additional 500+ for people unable to live on their own, which will benefit about 800,000. people, availability+, senior policy, hundreds of senior houses and clubs, care and medicine facilities and many other activities. This indicates that the government gives priority in terms of care, helping people with disabilities and families with disabilities. And in no way does the proposed change have any negative effects. Those with special needs include pensioners, pensioners, and those who receive a social pension. Polish pensioners, according to statistical data, are the most charged with the cost of living, especially housing, in relation to pensioners from other countries. This is a very serious burden in relation to their income. This makes the situation of these social groups worse. The government of law and justice remembers the older generation. Between 2016 and 2019 the lowest benefits for pensioners and pensioners increased by 25%. Value of benefits in 2018 was the highest in 5 years. This was the case in 2019. Free medicines, the lowest pension, one-off allowances, alongside valorization, legislation, a reduction in the retirement age - this confirms that the social groups of pensioners and pensioners are a priority of this government. In 2019 there was also the introduction of the "Emerity+" and the same project. It is to be maintained in the coming years. In addition to 13, the pension was 14 years old. The aim of the project is to provide a basis for the payment of one-off payment from the Solidarity Fund to pensioners and to cover the cost of service, as well as the payment of social pensions and funeral allowances payable after death to a person who has so far been paid directly from the State budget. It is now that ZUS and KRUS will pay them from the solidarity fund. In order to ensure funds for the payment of the abovementioned. the solidarity fund benefits were authorised by the fund manager, the Minister for Social Security, with the approval of the Minister of Finance, to borrow low-interest loans as well as loans from the state budget. These funds will be transferred to separate bank accounts of KRUS and ZUS. I wanted to draw attention to this point in the draft law, because I do not remember exactly whether the applicant's representative mentioned this issue in her speech. I ask you, as regards the following articles, that they have been discussed in very detail by the Member, as the representative of the Members of the applicants, in the speech. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club (Bell) Law and Justice, I state that we support all these solutions, support the bill and submit a request for the bill to be passed to the Public Finance Commission for further proceedings. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u391	Thank you, Member. Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Civic Coalition, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Prime Minister here today spoke a lot about the fact that politics is a promise and promises are sacred. They promised to help people with disabilities, and out of this money they would finance funeral benefits. This is the sacred promise of law and justice. [[Applause]] Solidarity fund to support people with disabilities. Every word sounds like a promise. Therefore, all doubts were cut off when this fund was created. For who could a decent man refuse to support people with disabilities? There was no doubt that a new tax was being introduced. There were no doubts that money was being taken into this fund from the Labour Fund, because there are so many needs of people with disabilities. How can you refuse to help people with disabilities? And now this money will be spent on extra pensions and funeral allowances. This is the way to help people with disabilities in the exercise of the Law and Justice. The Solidarity Support Fund will eventually kill the Demographic Reserve Fund loan. I really can't understand this dwarf figure. The support fund, which has annual revenues of 1.5 billion, will borrow a loan of 9 billion. Who can rationally set such proportions in such a way? That means that six-year income support fund This is the one-off loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not a promise, it's a big fraud. [[Applause]] This list of Members who signed up for this project will be a list of shame. And I hope that all disabled people will be very careful to read this list, because those who signed it say to the disabled: You have no need. There's no need for any money for you. The money is needed for funeral benefits. It's squirting. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club requests that this project be rejected at first reading. If this proposal is not adopted, we will demand a minimum discussion in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. How can you ignore this committee in discussing such a project? This is also an expression of your treatment of people with disabilities. The list of those who signed, the list of those who vote for it, should be remembered forever by people with disabilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u393	Thank you, sir. The rest of the time will be used by Mrs Iwona Hartwich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u394	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Until recently, I talked about the needs of people with disabilities during a 40-day protest in the Seym. Back then, I was just the mother of Jacob's disabled child. None of the protesters and guardians were taken seriously by the ruling party. I would like to remind you why and why a solidarity fund has been created for people with disabilities. It was created, in addition to improving the image of Law and Justice, to equalise opportunities for the weakest, the most deprived and the most excluded from our environment. He was supposed to provide a personal assistant. He was supposed to activate people with disabilities professionally and socially. Perhaps for the first time in their lives, these people would go on a rehabilitation tournament that costs 6,000. zł. In addition, I will mention that, of course, the law does not work, so-called. the law of Minister Rafalska and Minister Kopcińska, who perfidiously deceived the environment of people with disabilities, because no one has yet saved PLN 520. I'd like to say that. I appeal: Do not rob any more people with disabilities. [[Applause]] In fact, you are here to help and protect the welfare of these people. Today we are all responsible for the fate of people with disabilities. During the exposé today, the Prime Minister said only one sentence. He said he wouldn't forget them. But isn't he just gonna forget that he's gonna pick up, take away, use the Solidarity Fund for something else, for funeral benefits, to make his election promises come true? This is a disgrace. From today you will be associated not only with closed windows, toilets, beating us, parents, by the window. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Member. You'll also be associated with robbing people with disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u395	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I would like to present our position on the draft amendment to the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act. As a left-wing club, we're against this change. We believe that this is written in the spirit of creative accounting a cynical attempt, contrary to the constitutional principle of social justice, to assassinate the rights of people with disabilities in order to equalise their chances. [[Applause]] This is an amendment that, as PiS has often done, is voting and discussing at night, without any consultation, contrary to the interests of one of the most disadvantaged groups in our society. As my previous speaker mentioned, in the halls of this building, in the halls of the Sejm, there was a huge drama of people who could not live, for example in a minimal way enjoying the quality of life, decided here to fight for their rights. And they won it. Today Prime Minister Morawiecki and the Polish government say to us: We want to have a balanced budget. And so that we do not take the money that is subject to the budget law, we will take the funds from the fund that we granted to people with disabilities a year ago, and we will extend this group to other groups, including disadvantaged ones. We'll give them the money, too. If PiS has promised 13... 14... or any other pension, let him get that money from the budget, let him find it somewhere else. Let's, for example. does not finance the Catholic Church with such great sums. [[Applause]] After all, the Catholic Church is the second after the Treasure of your landowner and will do great without money from taxpayers' pockets, and people with disabilities will not. People with disabilities have been treated very badly for years. Over the years, they have been systematically excluded from society. And today, so that these people can live a decent life... This fund, which they have, is still a drop in the sea of needs, and the time it takes for people with disabilities to be able to say: I live as worthy of life as people who are fully capable is extremely long. It takes a lot of years for that. In Poland there are about 4.2 million people with disabilities and they need this money. If we agree today that there could be a fund at any time to serve one group... that we could throw into this group a completely different group, just as it did with other similar funds, then we would open up another bag of possibilities for this kind of manipulation. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Left Club, we apply for the rejection of the bill at first reading. And if it is not rejected at first reading, it is to be referred to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family in order to have a broad discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u397	Thank you, Member. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, PSL-Kukiz15 has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u398	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on amending the Act on Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, print No 13. The history of this fund has been recalled by Mrs Iwona Hartwich. But I remember you passed another tax as a result of some emotional blackmail. For who would not, would refuse to finance by people who earn better, the needs of people with disabilities, who are all over the sea. And you got social acceptance for this tax, really. There are a lot of taxes in Poland, and constantly raising them is not a way to solve problems, it should be efficient management. And now, ladies and gentlemen, once again as a result of manipulation, you are simply taking away this money, saying that they are also needed by pensioners, betting on conflict, another conflict. At that time it was a conflict with those who make money, and now we have a conflict with the elderly too. In this way, i.e. through conflict, you cannot manage. You put it this way, you're going to introduce such rhetoric that voting against this project means we don't want to give 13 pensions. That's not true. There's a proposal, a project that talks about how honest, every month helping pensioners: it's about not taking their tax away. [[Applause]] This is a civic project which was submitted by the Polish People's Party. Very fair. This project is really fair. This money was supposed to be for respite care, it was supposed to be for new jobs for people with disabilities, which are not really enough. That money was supposed to be for the new outposts. That money won't go for it because it's only 10%. The state took advantage of it. It's funded 500+... They're staying in the fund, my fellow Member. No. Ladies and gentlemen, how are these tasks financed? They're not being financed because 530 million out of 5 billion were just spent on a small percentage... They stay, we don't cross anything out. ...and now it's practically not going to be spent at all. I'll tell you how they stay. It's an example from my district. Over the past 3 years, the association for mentally impaired people in Miechów has tried and won PLN 4.5 million for a new 120 places of rehabilitation for children with disabilities from EU funds. They walked, asked for a million zlotys to be added so that this project could be built. They applied for money in a voivodship managed by Law and Justice, they tried with the minister. I sent a begging letter to the Prime Minister, above politics, to make sure he didn't give that money back. They said there was no money. We've been moving in since January. That's what the fund was supposed to be for. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Don't argue with the jury. They said there was no money to fund this facility. This association was the strength of the parents to gain this money, the power of the self-government. And you know what, they gave back $4.5 million and didn't make it... Don't argue with the jury. Marshal of the voivodship how much did he add? As I saw today, the Prime Minister's firm has increased its costs by almost 200 million over the last year, and you could not afford to give this 1.5 million - for this begging letter - we really are making this rejection application without any scruples, also joining the predecessors, because this money... There was no money, there was no money. The Farm of Life, the next example, is the centre near Krakow, the only one in Poland that provides care for autistic children. That's where you wait 11 years for the line. Parents who are older die, they are really afraid because they have nowhere to leave their youth. The only facility in Poland that threatens to close, people throw themselves at it. There's no money from the solidarity fund. Then what's it for? Since 2015, no funding for jobs has been raised. In a moment's time, employers, when they see announcements about raising the minimum wage, will fire people with disabilities. That's what the money was supposed to go for, not for the 13th pension. After all, you said your electoral promises would be financed by taking away the mob, criminals, not people with disabilities. [[Applause]] The club won't support this project. He's asking that the money be on people with disabilities, not that they're being cheated, that anything stays here for them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u399	Thank you very much Mrs Agnieszka Ścigaj, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, We're filing a motion to reject the project in its entirety. The assumptions of this project are simple. They're the same as the assumptions of this whole pay-as-you-go social security system. A system that deprived the family of its primary role and led to a demographic crisis across Europe. A system that was historically introduced by Bismarck in 1880 to finance the war. And you're all about the same thing. Maybe not for war, but for financing the current electoral promises at the expense of future generations. And so you rob the Demographic Reserve Fund and the Disabled Persons Support Fund in order to fulfill the promises of the twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth pension. You do this at the expense of future generations, at the expense of our children, at the expense of my two sons. That's it. That's it. It's sad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u401	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Dobromir Sosnier.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u402	Now we come back from an alternate reality because, as we heard in the exposé, there's no shortage of money, we're going to have gold coming out of the taps, and now, at the first meeting, we're going to have to deal with a few proposals to patch the bottom of this bag, because I think we're going to get to the bottom of the bag, and in order to keep all the electoral commitments, all the promises, we're going to have to work hard. That's how socialism always ends, because it works on paper, and it doesn't really want to anymore. That's when it's time for magic tricks like this, we know from the past. The platform did such tricks during its term of office that they stole here from the OFE, they picked it up from the Demographic Reserve Fund, they changed the way they counted the debt. Now we have a few more. We want to change 30 times, take 30 times ZUS. The government temporarily suspended it, but we have already received a declaration that it will not give up and will try to continue. Now we're getting into the solidarity fund. It's still so much fun that if we rebook something from one cell to another cell, thanks to this creative process on paper, it won't be. Well, that's not how it works. Reality doesn't change from naming. If we spend more than we make, we'll have a deficit. It doesn't matter what we call it, whether we call it rebooking or we call it a hidden debt. Whatever we call it, deficit is deficit, tax is tax, debt is always debt. Let me explain how it all works. Government transfers are always a negative-sum game. Just as in physics there is the law to preserve energy, so in the economy there is the law to preserve wealth. If we take one and give the other, that wealth doesn't come from it. It's just... To pump money into the economy, you have to pump it out of the economy first. The economy hasn't developed since we pump it. Only those who pump are developing. Those who stand by the pump will always steal something, lose a little bit, and always get ahead of it. Socialism always ends in the same way and there is no wickedness that the government would not do when it lacks money. Now it comes to the fact that you have to come out with a face from the promises you made earlier. So we have to rob the fund that he had before for something else, and pretend it doesn't give us a deficit. Anyway... Okay, maybe that's it. Thank you, then. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u403	Thank you very much, sir. We're going to ask questions. There are 40 people on the list of Members to be asked questions. Would anyone else like to join the question? Me too. Then you're welcome. I'm closing the list of MPs. The time for questioning is 60 seconds. I ask you to ask Mr Michael Szczerba a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The capital city of Warsaw wanted to run the program "Bilans 70- and 80-year-old." The health minister's agency blocked this program, which was to be financed by the local government, because it threatened, as the agency of this government wrote, to detect diseases. I thought nothing worse would happen in this Seym, in this government. Today you're taking money from people with disabilities who won this fund during a 40-day strike in this building. Bullshit. The PiS showed that people with disabilities are treated instrumentally. The PiS today tells this project that the needs of people with disabilities are secondary needs. Lie! Because all that matters is winning the presidential election. One important piece of information. What's in the description of this project? It is again, High Izbo and dear pensioners (The Bell), a one-off benefit for 2020. It was supposed to be a 13th permanent pension. Today you are misleading Polish pensioners. You're the ones who turned down the tax-free pension, and today you're lying to them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u405	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u406	Mr. Marshal, it's good to see you. Nice to meet you, too. Dear Members, I remember this protest, it started on April 18th, and it ended May 27th. I'm very happy that Iwona Hartwich, the leader of this protest, is here. It's so symbolic. It reminded me of Mrs. Rafalska's promise of golden pears on the willow. How suddenly came up with the idea not to implement the protesters' demands, but to come up with something like a solidarity fund. Mrs Rafalska then said that the hierarchy of importance of important issues on which money will be spent for people with disabilities will be consulted and agreed with the representation of people with disabilities. Did you consult with people with disabilities to rob them? I'm sure you didn't. And the worst part of all of this is that this tribute (the bell) will only be paid in 2020, which means you haven't given it yet, and you're already taking it away like thieves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u407	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u408	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, this is not a debate about laws, it is about values, it is about honesty. And the question is whether it is fair that a new tax has been introduced to help people with disabilities, and today it is abandoned and de facto rakes people with disabilities from the means they really need. This is a debate about solidarity, about the fact that people with disabilities need an appropriate environment. And there's nothing to hide, it's all costing. There's never been any money for that. Today, the state has introduced a tax and you are relinquishing this solidarity. And, of course, it's a debate about integrity. Because if we hear across Poland that there is a shortage of resources for people with disabilities and the state is eliminating part of this fund, it means that you probably cannot manage it. In addition, you are looting the Demographic Reserve Fund, which means you are looting young Poles. And the question (the bell) is whether these values mean anything to you, whether honesty, solidarity, honesty is important. 'Cause if you do, this project just needs to back off and I'm counting on you guys to do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u409	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u410	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you remember, but it's hard to forget that a few hours ago, the Prime Minister assured us that PiS had healed public finances. He so healed that now PiS is playing creative accountant, which destroys not only the solidarity fund, but also the Demographic Reserve Fund. One was intended to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, the other was to raise funds to maintain the pensions of people with disabilities, when pensioners were more than workers. It's not just extremely irresponsible, but it's just... There's extremely disgraceful behavior on your part. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u411	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u412	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Let's ask what it's going to finance. It's supposed to finance pensions, specifically 13 pensions. What is the 13th pension solution? Not much. It does not solve the problem of low pensions. We really have a bunch of citizens and citizens who have to hold on for 900 zlotys a month. It doesn't solve the problem of 227,000. citizens and citizens who do not have the right to a minimum pension. It's actually taking one weak group of money and handing it over to another group of needy people. Law and Justice once again shows that it is weak against the strong and strong against the weak. Prime Minister Morawiecki said that with digital tax he would wait for the European Commission to propose this tax. The Czech Republic did not wait, the Czech government voted (the bell) 7 percent tax for Internet giants. Do the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki and Law and Justice want to take one poor person and pass this money on to the other poor, while not taking money from the great digital giants? Is that your government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u413	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A moment ago I was amazed to hear that there is a formal basis for transferring this money, because there is an art. 9. I suppose because the bill was voted out after the protests that, in order to calm the environment, the law was passed, giving an article. Nine who says the minister can move the money. So it was planned to transfer that money, so it's safe to say that taking that money was planned. But for who and for what? Which of these tasks will you fail to accomplish? What? Reinforcement care? It's an extremely important thing, I don't think you can question that. Care and specialty services? Building housing centers? One of the Members just said how important this is. Are assistants of disabled people? Ladies and gentlemen! By taking this money, you take away (the bell) the dreams of the weakest people, children and their parents. They waited for that money because they never had it, they always lacked it. They waited for their various important dreams... That important issues will be solved. Don't do this. You're not allowed to do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u415	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u416	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Why, after the disdain festival you gave to people with disabilities during the protest in the Seym, are you doing it again? Quickly, without consulting. You humiliate and hurt the weakest once again. Why are you doing this? On the other hand, who tells you that? Double the burden on entrepreneurs and employees? It's scary to think, Minister, if the economy continues to weaken, there'll be what you can think of. But before that, at a time of great economics, you ate its fruit. You're doing everything the other way around. You take the weakest and future generations. How can you do that? Is that how a strong country should work? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u417	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u418	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Why is the 13th pension from the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities proposed in the context of significant deficits in support of people with disabilities in Poland? Why is the PiS fulfilling its electoral promises at the expense of the most deprived and the most disadvantaged by the fate of the social groups? Why is the PiS once again using its way of avoiding public consultation and once again directing the parliamentary project on such an important issue? I would like to ask, specifically, what measures have been planned so far to implement programmes for disabled people, such as respite care, care services or disabled person's assistant, and what funds will be earmarked for these purposes after the amendment of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u419	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u420	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. The Solidarity Fund for people with disabilities was intended to restore dignity. The Prime Minister has also repeatedly used the word "normal" changed by many cases. Is it normal that people with disabilities do not have independent access to means of transport? Is it normal that children don't have independent access to education, to schools? There are places where they can't even use toilets, classrooms. This is often difficult access. It is an isolation in the majesty of the law, and now it turns out that the solidarity fund is not for them either. This government has no power, it is powerless when it comes to enabling people with disabilities to benefit. Is that the solidarity of the support fund? I don't think so. This is cheating people with disabilities who have no way of defending themselves and have no strength, just like they have for 40 days. It was a really big uprising... (BELL RINGING) ...from the knees. Now you're throwing them on those knees again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u421	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Above all: Messengers and Members of the PIS! This is your project. There aren't many of you in the O.R. I turn to... There are no messengers here. And Law and Justice. I will use Polish as I see fit. Mr PiS, Mr Pis! I turn to your consciences. The project is wicked. You legitimize yourselves with the message of Christian values. No one sober - minded is able to come to logic as to how bad it is to take away people with disabilities from a winning fund that can be reconciled with Christian values. I assume you've been misled by what was said here today... Have you read the bill? ...that this fund is not fully used. Well, he's not fully used, because he's just started to be implemented in this (Bingle) year... Nobody said that. ...and it hasn't even been half implemented by local governments and other organizations yet. Thank you very much. I address you, appeal to your consciences and hearts because I believe you have them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u423	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities? I'll start with what it isn't. Certainly, this fund is not the approximately budget fund of the one who ordered people with disabilities to support themselves and not disturb themselves a few months ago. These measures were won in a 40-day protest in the halls of this building by people with disabilities... That's not true. ...and their guardians. Conquered, not sacrificed. The Fund is also very specific programmes, which you promised less than a year ago to people with disabilities and their carers. These programs include care services for people with disabilities, rest services, care centers for people with disabilities, personal assistance for people with disabilities. Those are the programs you need. And I have a question for the government representative: What about these programmes? Tell me straight: Do you want to liquidate these programs? Can you look the Minister - and the State of Law and Justice - in the eyes of people with disabilities and tell them that you are taking away their assistant, their right to rest? And if you say you want to maintain these programs, how exactly do you want to fund them? What? By what means? Who? What other disadvantaged group do you want to pick up to keep these programs? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]] That's a lie.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u425	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u426	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The solution proposed by the Act is to remove 9 billion PLN from the Demographic Reserve Fund and transfer them to the Solidarity Fund. The Demographic Reserve Fund is intended to provide security when, due to negative demographic trends or the financial crisis, there are no funds available for the payment of benefits. Currently, the Demographic Reserve Fund has 42 billion PLN. If funds are drawn at this rate, this fund can be closed in 2022. And my question is, do applicants have responsibility and concern for future benefits? What do you propose and to whose pockets will you reach if you run out of money to pay current pensions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's not gonna run out. I'm sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u427	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u428	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Solidarity Fund is to be funded from the Demographic Reserve Fund. In this fund there are 4 billion PLN located in assets on the Stock Exchange, 24 billion in government or corporate bonds. In addition, the Demographic Reserve Fund has 12 billion PLN, which it received from the transfer from OFE 51.5% in 2014 Do applicants realise that the granting of a loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund can affect the capital market in Poland? Is it not appropriate for the draft law to be subject to an opinion by the European Central Bank? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u429	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Catherine Osos, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two lines. The Solidarity Fund is to fund important support programmes for people with disabilities - caring services, respite care, assistant to the disabled. Will the proposed changes not vanquish the development of these programmes, and in the future may not result in their extinction? Second line. Doesn't the draft law destroy the social security system? The funds collected for 20 years for the Demographic Reserve Fund are to be wound up in nearly 1/4 and spent on a one-off benefit. What about the future of this fund? Because you're really digging up these two funds with this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u431	Thank you very much. I would like the floor of Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Named after a disgusting, cynical project. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall the Prime Minister's speech about the 13th pension. So smiling, so happy he said that the pensioner would finally be able to renovate his apartment, that his grandson would buy some more beautiful gift for communion. Ladies and gentlemen, you are fighting people. Imagine that the pensioner who's due... And you're scaring the disabled. I am speaking now, Member. [[Applause]] Next to this pensioner, who is entitled to a 13th pension, a disabled person lives on one floor above or below. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Don't argue with the jury. This is nothing else, ladies and gentlemen... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Stop discussing. Is it normal that your flagship promise: 13 pensions is to be paid by people with disabilities? Who authorized you to do this? That's disgusting. How can you... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Madame, it is very nice that you smile so much, but you should have talked about it in the election campaign. This is a fundamental, fundamental, Mrs Bell, a catalog of values. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u433	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What are you doing? What are you doing? The struggle for power is, was and will be above all for you? In the election year you fooled not only people with disabilities, but also millions of Poles. Today, seeing as you're taking money from this fund, I think you've done it deliberately, that you've had it planned long ago, that people with disabilities were just supposed to lick themselves with tasty, and you're going to make the fund look good to the public. Your goal was to gain a few percentage points in the polls and a few votes at the polls. Maybe it was the creation of this fund that gave you the majority of the parliament. You created this fund only for propaganda purposes. Cool name, cool target, Poles accepted and took a sip. You stood everyone up. How despicable you have to be people to take her away immediately after you give your hand. Please answer why you chose this fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I demand an answer on behalf of all those who believe you. You seek to exclude people with disabilities from their social life. Dear Members of the PiS, you are liars and frauds. You lied, you lied, you lied. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u435	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u436	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ministers! It's a shame for you. It is a shame for you because you, in your previous term of office, said that you would help people with disabilities. Those who were on strike in the Seym, against whom you hung the curtain, which you did not provide the sanitary facilities, you closed the windows against which you sent the Marshal's Guard. And today you've come up with a way to fight Poles. And for that shame. The government didn't say anything like 30 times because this government had no honor. I think it would be a shame for you to speak on this matter. We can't share people. This fund is for those we should help the most, for the disabled, for those who have been here for 40 days (the bell), which the state did not want to look into the eyes to which they turned their backs. If you wanted to help pensioners, you had to write a decent project, consult him, not do budget tricks. Shame and shame. Every word of the opposition Members in this matter against you is right. It's a shame and a disgrace to PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u437	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of this fund was primarily to support the social, occupational, health and financing of people with disabilities, but it seems that this support will cover another social group, i.e. pensioners and pensioners. The truth is that the current government does not have funds in the budget for the implementation of the electoral promises made. Hence the idea of financing the thirteenth pension from the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, which raises so much controversy. In simple words: the 13th pension will be financed by disabled people. I believe that this is a very bad and hurtful project that will conflict with the two most needy social support groups. In that case, will the rulers now finance some social activities by taking away others? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is the bill being proceded without public consultation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u439	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities was a great hope. He was the hope of the environment to improve its professional situation, its health-related situation, its development opportunities. Today, we are tearing our hopes off this project. I would like to ask the designers whether they consulted this project with any non-governmental organisation of persons with disabilities. I would like to ask the Minister why the flagship promise of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions is not becoming a systemic component of social security, but we are throwing it into this fund. Today we are only talking about a loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund, but this project provides for the possibility of obtaining a loan from the Labour Fund. So if you run out of 14 pensions (the bell), the next time you reach for the Labour Fund, which is far unethical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u441	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for Members of the applicant, to the representative, as regards this bill, whether he considers that there are enough assistants for people with disabilities in Poland. If so, okay, you can take the money from the fund. But if not, why are you taking them? Do you know how much a personal assistant's hour costs? Please step into the podium and tell us how much such an hour costs and how many hours of such care a person with a disability for 1600 PLN can provide for himself. And such an assistant helps to go to work, eat, dress, wash, drink water. Without such an assistant, a person with disabilities is sentenced to vegetation. Do you think that enough daily residences have been created for people with disabilities? Is respite care so well developed that there is nothing more to be done? If so, okay. But if you don't? Why are you taking this money out of the fund in an unworthy and false way? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u443	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Szapka. There isn't. I would therefore like to ask Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The creation of a solidarity fund to support people with disabilities was a response to protests and legitimate demands of the environment of people with disabilities. And that was the only purpose of the statutory establishment of this fund. And there is no doubt about that, because the Prime Minister also spoke extensively in many of his public speeches. Today, Minister Michał Dworczyk at TVN24 stated that using this fund would only be a loan. If it's a loan, I have a question. Please tell us how the government intends to settle the borrowed funds with the environment of people with disabilities. By returning the entire amount with interest or without interest? From what source is the government going to finance this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u445	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Monica Wieliczhowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We process at night, of course, a project that robs the weak and robs people with disabilities. 18 members of the PiS signed up for this project, a project that takes dignity away from people with disabilities. Let's check their presence, ladies and gentlemen. Waldemar Andzel - absent... [[Voice from the hall: Uuu)]] ... Barbara Bartus - absent, Jan Duda - absent, Barbara Dziuk - absent, Leszek Galemba - absent, Zbigniew Girzyński - absent, Kazimierz Gwiazdowski - absent, Piotr Kaleta - absent, Jerzy Małecki - absent, Jerzy Materna probably is, Danuta Nowicka - absent, Piotr Uściński - absent, Grzegorz Wojciechowski - absent, Wojciech Zubowski - absent. There are only: Urszula Rusecka, Adam Sněžek, Piotr Polak and that's all. I said, where are you? Shame! You signed off on this list of disgraces. Are you so ashamed of what you did (the bell) that you didn't even come to the debate? You're not here when we're investigating your project, the project you signed up for. It's your shame and your shame. [[Applause]] Everyone remember this list of disgraces.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u447	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After 40 days of protest in the Seym, Prime Minister Morawiecki comes out and tells us that as part of listening, listening to the voice of the disabled, PiS is setting up the Solidarity Fund. And right now, you're gonna take the money out of this fund to pay off your election promise, which is your 13th pension. I know the pensioners need money very much, but... Ladies and gentlemen of the Retirement Party! It's one time, not every year. And it's not for 14th retirement, it's for 13th one at a time. The idea of taking one of those in need to give the other to those in need is mean, heartless, that it's hard to believe. PiS takes money from those who need help most. Ladies and gentlemen! The State's power (The Bell) is judged by how it treats the weakest. It's the cynical election move of the PiS. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u449	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u450	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! The project presented increases the number of tasks financed by this fund by actions not addressed to persons with disabilities. The funds for this are to come from a loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund. This violation is dangerous. It means that our pension system is losing one of its security features. I'll remind the ladies and gentlemen why we need this fund. He is because in 2025 there will be two pensioners per employee. You write in the project that this is a loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund. You're violating him, and he's supposed to protect us from a demographic disaster. If you spend it now, what happens after 2025? Do you have any idea how we're gonna function next? This is irresponsible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u451	Thank you very much. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The election promises of PiS, the exposé premiere... You lied in that term, you lie today. This project is a project of truth, truth about your actions and your help to people with disabilities. It's not helping, it's constantly throwing logs under the feet of people with disabilities. First, Minister Zalewska withdrew disabled children from inclusive education in schools. Bullshit. Then you created the Solidarity Fund because the elections were coming. You have to promise: we will help, vote for us, don't disturb us. You created a fund that was only meant for disabled people. It was supposed to be a criterion, a benefit that would then be financed from this fund. You've given a 500-plus benefit. Plus this is a criterion whereby most people with disabilities cannot apply for this benefit. If there's nowhere to get it, you gotta take somebody. So? And you thought you were gonna take the disabled. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they won't talk? We are here: I, Iwona Hartwich, Sławek Piechota and other Members who either have children with disabilities, [[Applause]] Or they have families... Eight years. ...and we will not allow you to treat people with disabilities like this. Shame and shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u453	Thank you very much. Ms Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u454	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, you're creating quite a financial pyramid from the state budget. After all, you should pay 13 pensions or funeral allowances from the Social Insurance Fund. Meanwhile, you are going to withdraw these benefits from the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, and since there is a shortage of money, you are borrowing from the Demographic Reserve Fund. Why are you doing this? That's because you don't have a budget. You just need money to pay benefits. The point is not to break the financial rule. But at what cost? At the expense of the weakest, at the expense of the people with disabilities you humiliated for 40 days when they were on the seym floor. You promised them the fund, and now you're taking it away from them, because as a result, this fund will be terminated. It's a shame. We have full-time children, so let's take a look at those people who aren't so lucky and have to take care of their children during the day and night. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u455	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u456	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In fact, this bill is an attempt to cover a manifest violation of the Public Finance Act. Of course. Such an infringement took place in connection with the payment of one-off cash benefits to pensioners and pensioners, so-called. Thirteenth pension. In fact, this involves exceeding the expenditure limit laid down in accordance with the expenditure rule. I have a question: Has the chief spokesperson of public finances taken action against those responsible, and if not, when will he do so? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u457	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I will quickly remind you what the money from this fund was going to go to - for systemic changes and four government programs: caring services, rest support, care centers and a disabled person's assistant program. They were to go to relief aid, whose organization and funding give the summa summarum huge savings for the state, because the person does not use the 24-hour care system, but the family takes care of it. Reinforcement aid financed by the Solidarity Fund is the only chance for non-burning carers and continued home care. All over the world, savings for the state in the form of investments in support of domestic carers are thought ahead. What about us? Let's remember that by 2050. Four times the number of dependents in Poland will increase. How are they supposed to manage without these funds? In local governments, only 21% of the funds were used for a respite care programme this year. The local authorities did not have a chance to join the programme because it was announced in the financial year and did not bear the 20% own contribution requirement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let me ask you straight away: If the Members of the PiS were persons with disabilities, were they suddenly disabled or had a seriously disabled child, would they vote in favour of this project? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u459	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I will not discuss the moral aspect, or rather the immorality of this law, because it was perfectly done by my previous speakers and previous speakers. I would like to draw the line raised by Mr Cichoń, because the security of public finances is also a constitutional value. Madame Member of the Requestor! Please explain to the High House how it is possible that you recommend us to adopt a law that introduces legislation that works backwards. How is it possible that you have agreed to stand here in front of the High House and introduce a provision that has been in force since May, only so that Minister Banas does not stand before the Court of State, what he should do, because, as Mr Silchoń rightly pointed out, he has broken the discipline of public finances (the bell)? I would like you to answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u461	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ursula Augustyn, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we have heard many times about the opposition's willingness to cooperate with the ruling coalition and that we are now opening a new chapter, and now there are conditions. Only that all the Members and the public who have had the opportunity to follow your policies during your previous term of office are experiencing déjavu. In your previous term, you did exactly the same thing. You were pulling out a project that wasn't consulted with anyone. We said, "This is going to end badly." No, you did it your way. If you want cooperation today, I want to ask you why this project is addressed by you only to the finance committee, not to the social policy committee, when there is talk of matters concerning people with disabilities. Applause I'm asking because I know we've explained to you many times and you haven't used our help. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We said that a similar situation is with students who in the so-called. Inclusive education, as you understand it, would continue to be in schools, and it turns out that in practice it works quite the opposite way. Those students, unfortunately, after their counseling decisions, go to home education. They're not included, they're excluded from social life, they're excluded from school life. Today, you have a chance to think again about this project... Fall back. Fall back, God forbid, but think about what you're doing. Because what you see, unfortunately, is very shortsighted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u463	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Krutul, the Left Club. Not even Mr Cymanski will speak because it is a shame. I'll take it. In a minute. And who's that? Then you'll be ashamed. He's already ashamed. Please don't argue with the Parliamentary Courts.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u464	May I? There you go. Messengers and Members of Law and Justice! How do you think I'm gonna use that word-- the audacity to rob poor invalids, the disabled? Oh, dear. Yeah, like this. You can come and take the floor. But it's a fact. That's the way it is. I'm ashamed of it, I'm a fresh Member, so you can raise your hand behind a project like this. I'm just embarrassed. Don't go that way. You have clichés on your lips, kneeling in the first rows of the church. Where's your conscience? Shame and shame. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u465	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are proceeding on the parliamentary project, so shortcuts, without consultation, but rather quickly, and preferably at night. I have a few questions for applicants: Is it fair and moral not to consult such a sensitive and so severe project for environments with disabilities in order to avoid these environments in consultation? This is wicked. Next question: Why doesn't the PiS fund the 13th pension, which is right and due to our fellow countrymen, from the state budget? Why doesn't he do it in a clear and clear way? And he's pretending and boasting about some fictitious budget balance. What's with the dwarf design? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u467	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! With this project, everyone who signed up for it, who will vote for it, declare to people with disabilities that there is too much money for people with disabilities in Poland. Because there's huge money in the budget for state television, there's huge extra money for the Prime Minister's law firm, the President's law firm, the Sejm and Senate law firm, and there's no money to execute the Constitutional Court's judgment five years ago. [[Applause]] A sentence which was demanded by the PiS Members themselves. Then they explained that there was no money for it. There is no money for mothers in early retirement so-called. EWK or mothers on similar welfare benefits. And there's money, but it's for purposes that are spectacularly electoral. So what's it like to treat people with disabilities? The Prime Minister has spoken many times about dignity, about promises. So what are these promises to people with disabilities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's for others, but it's not for disabled people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u469	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Evening, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By joining, of course, all these earlier votes, I would like to ask a slightly different question, because I will honestly admit that after more than 20 years in the local government, I have first seen such financial manoeuvres as are in this law. I'd ask you to explain to me what this is all about. It's rollin'. Exactly. I get the feeling it's a roll-up. Because in the Social Insurance Act there is a separate Demographic Reserve Fund. In the draft law, we have the possibility that the Demographic Reserve Fund may borrow an interest-free repayment loan within the time limit specified in the loan agreement. And from this Demographic Reserve Fund, the loan can draw this Solidarity Fund. This is about the amount of PLN 9 billion. Therefore, my question is: Who will be the lender? If this is the state budget, please say it will be the state budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In all these contracts, the loans are written down that these loans will be repaid. When will this 9 billion PLN be returned? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u471	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Poland Coalition Club - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You had a hard nut to crack at the end of your previous term. People with disabilities became your problem. How did you solve this problem? Well, you promised them something. Now we have a new term and at the first session of the Sejm you are withdrawing from your promises. In short, you lied. How do you want to face people with disabilities? It's not going that way. And you've been talking about dialogue all along. I just want to tell you that you've made a mistake about sending the project to the committee. You shouldn't be talking about this project on this committee. Secondly, all opposition clubs requested that the project be rejected at first reading. That should make you think. All the speakers today criticized this project. Do you want a dialogue, or do you want to lie and cheat people with disabilities? Answer that in your heads. Don't listen to us, but talk to these people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u473	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Teresa Wargocka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u474	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Honourable Members! Is it true that this government, which is acting, as you believe, despicably, heartlessly and wickedly, which takes away the dignity of people with disabilities, has increased expenditure for people with disabilities by 4 billion over the last term of office compared to 2015, that the social pension... That's terrible. ...for all disabled people we raised by 360 PLN that the care allowance increased by 65 PLN... After the protests. ...that we've introduced a benefit for over 800,000. people with disabilities unable to live on their own because they didn't have the means to guarantee a minimum standard of living? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is what the rule of law and justice does. Minister! Brief question: Does the Solidarity Fund also cover tasks aimed at people with disabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u475	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For example, attendance in this Chamber and the number of people who took part in this discussion show an interest in the subject of people with disabilities. Coalition of Poland, Civic Coalition, Left. And the Law and Justice? She even checked the attendance list. There are no Members who signed as initiators of these statutory amendments. Because they can't listen to your stupidity. But I will tell you when they will be. They will when you have to press the button to collect that money to people with disabilities. Pick it up like there's too much money. Pick up as if all the issues and problems of people with disabilities have already been solved. But it was different. Before the elections all the politicians of Law and Justice, not only the Prime Minister, were saying that it was a country of milk and honey flowing. It is. If the Law and Justice won, it was supposed to be a state of prosperity. What's wrong? It'll get better. It's taking money from those who need it the most. And what hurts me the most (the bell) as a person who is the first term of office is that in this important debate on a sensitive subject there is no minister responsible for the affairs of people with disabilities. There you are, Minister. If you were a minister, at least with your presence, you'd confirm that this is an important subject, and she's not here. Today, the disabled cry, and the minister is celebrating. It was unthinkable to be Minister Kosiniak-Kamish. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u477	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Solidarity Fund is and will operate. We're not taking anything from anyone. No money. The tasks and objectives that are written down remain. There's just no money. What the Members of the opposition are saying today is completely false. I'll say I'm wiping my eyes out of wonder today. Members of the European Coalition are screaming the loudest today. Do you remember when you voted on the Solidarity Fund Act? Firstly, the Modern Platform requested that the project be rejected at first reading, and when the proposal fell, you did not support the project. Oh, shame. You're so close to being handicapped? But we were right. That's right, that's right. That's how you had the disability on your cheese? You're hypocrites. Check it out. Shame on you! Shame on you! You use people with disabilities for political purposes. [[Applause]] Bravo! That's true.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u479	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Arthur Łącki, the Civic Coalition. We knew you'd fool the disabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I have allowed myself to speak in this Chamber because for more than two terms I have cooperated with the PSONI organizations of my griffin and stone districts. In general, I wouldn't have any reason to go back to my place if I hadn't told you what I wanted to talk about. I think the disabled are satisfied after four years. I am speaking especially to you, Members of the Law and Justice, and to you, Mr Cymanski, because I saw you on TV in 2014 when you walked among the disabled and probably promised them golden mountains. Ladies and gentlemen, in every country there will be a few percent of people who can never do it themselves, and every decent, strong and good social state should help these people. If he doesn't... 500+... This is just one social group you want her to vote for you. If he doesn't, he doesn't deserve to be called state, Mr Cymanski. What is the difference between you and those who allowed such people to euthanize a few decades ago? What's the difference? Think about it. You take the money from these people (the bell), you sentence them to vegetation and you give them the benefit for the funeral. Think about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u481	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The sea of hypocrisy has crossed the line... Yours. ...what was shown here in your questions. Total manipulation, lies. One at a time. Mr Szczerba says that only a one-off benefit will be paid, only a 13th pension, so that the pensioners will not think about other pensions, the 13th and 14th. First of all, he needs to read the bill. The point is that this is a one-year benefit. What does that mean? That it is paid once a year and will be paid annually, first of all. Yeah, yeah. Of what? What if there's no money? From the Solidarity Fund. That's our problem, not yours. You're showing off at the finance committee, so at least don't bother me here and let me tell you what I have to say. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Besides, about 2019... Time, time. ...is about, please, that the Demographic Reserve Fund will grant a loan, yes, for purposes only and only 2019... Thank you very much. ...and that it will be returned from funds that are already blocked in the FUS. Mr. Marshal, one sentence, please. Mr Cichoń calls for a spokesperson of discipline, why etc. And is Mr Cichoń, Mrs Leszczyna, Mrs Skowrońska... Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Cymanski. Don't you remember what you were doing with the road fund? You don't remember making loans to the F.U.S. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. ...to protect ourselves from the requirements of the rule... Mr. Marshal... Thank you very much. Why didn't you ask for a spokesperson at the time? [[Applause]] Not after the deadline...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u483	Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Cymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u484	It is true that very unfortunate and unfortunate is the very idea and implementation of the disability fund. And very clever is an opportunity to attack. But hate for PiS can't be greater than honesty and honesty. You've never broken discipline! I'd be insolent if I didn't say one thing here. Question: "Will at least one zloty, I stress: one zloty, coming from a tribute from very rich Poles, from 4% over a million, go for thirteens or fourteens?" Ha, ha, ha! Of course! I'm asking you to answer that precise question. I accept criticism - because it was a good one - from the finance committee. Yeah, 'cause the thing is... These creative methods and methods that you used, that's a different kind of criticism. But there's an unfair use of this case. In addition, it is written on electronic media, please, who said what. A friend of Hartwich's is about to say. Tell her what she said about the idea of taking rich people for the unhappy. Was she critical or not? I'm asking. Of course! Yeah, yeah! That's the truth about it. Thank you very much. And therefore (the bell) really be honest criticize. Criticism - yes, criticism - no. Because it's not fair, it's not fair. [[Applause]] Don't scream! Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u485	Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Rzepa, the coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. In what mode? In what mode? Mr. Marshal, and then I'd like to correct it. May I? But now Mr Jarosław Rzep will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u486	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is how you take care of this - and I am talking here to Members of the Law and Justice - budget, and you have not been able to secure, predict that you will want to pay this thirteenth pension? What's it like, ladies and gentlemen? You have such a great prime minister, such a wonderful exposé, which we heard a few hours ago, and today we would like to say: you have forgotten. Are you inviting these people back to the Sejm? Are you trying to bring them to such difficult moments again? And the country... It's certainly not very pleasant for them. Ladies and gentlemen! Why is the Polish Sejm forgetting about the normal legislative process? Why doesn't he consult with those involved? You know, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I'm gonna tell you what we used to be told when we were little. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whoever gives and receives, he gets carried away in hell. Time. But we won't be in this hell with you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We're not picking up anything, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u487	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition. And Mrs Leszczyn afterwards.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u488	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to turn - I'm sorry that I personally - but we know each other. I remember. So, Mr. Tadeusz Cymanski, you should stand today... Do you remember when he ate sandwiches with us... Yes. ...and promised to help people with disabilities? Yes. Today you should be the first person to stand here and object to this project of your party. [[Applause]] That's the truth. Stand in the truth! Tadeusz! Yes, sir. Stand in the truth! Minister Swed, I'm very sorry that personally, very personally. But you stood at our protests in 2015 with Mrs. Rafalska. You were patting me on the shoulder. I have pictures with you. And you promised to help... Well... Oh, shame, shame. I'll call it in. I remember. ...and especially for people with disabilities after 18 years of age. And today, it's garbage to take that little money away from people with disabilities. There's nothing to laugh about. There's nothing to laugh at, but you have to support people because they have a hard time in our country. We support, we support. Because we've been in the Union for 15 years... Don't yell at me, ladies. Because we have been a country for 15 years in the European Union and you do not know the standards. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Do not disturb the Member. Your mentality needs to change. It's gonna be very difficult, but I wish you that. [[Applause]] Bravo! You didn't want to take money from the rich. You didn't want to.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u489	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn. It's on tape. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sandwiches with me... 'Cause I don't think I want to anymore. He'll eat before the election. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u490	Mr. Marshal! I'd like to correct my... Wait a minute. Can we calm our emotions? It's not surprising. Mr. Marshal! I'd like to correct my statement. But I would like to say to Mr Cymanski: yes, we were against it, because we knew by then that you would deceive these people who were earning well and do not give money to the disabled. Mrs Masłowska, on the other hand, I must explain - because she did not understand Mr Cichoń's statement and mine - why Marian Banas should stand before the Court of State. Well, in May you paid the money, the thirteenth pension, although you had no right to do so. The Minister of Finance then broke the discipline of public finances and should face the Court of State for that. [[Applause]] Today, you are grabbing your left hand by the right ear, moving from one fund to that fund, which is outside the spending rule, and you think that in November you can adopt the law that applies in May. That's the difference when it comes to what we did because we didn't break discipline. And you're doing what I said now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u491	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to inform you that the list of Members voted in has been exhausted. Now I ask you to answer the questions asked by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed. But this is the applicant?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is parliamentary, but there were also questions to the government, so I will try to answer, there were also personal questions to me. It's an old method. I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that you are talking about a project that is not available at all, that you have not read it at all. I've read it four times. There's not one thing you've said about this project. What do you mean, no? We don't take anything from anybody, and we don't take it from people with disabilities. It's an absolute lie, isn't it? We don't agree... And don't say it again, because it's a lie. That's discipline! You prey on people with disabilities. This is unworthy of what you're doing. [[Applause]] Bravo, bravo. We don't take a single zloty from people with disabilities, we'll add it in 2020, and I'll prove it to you right away... But you're in debt. ...just listen. First thing. If we're talking about the Solidarity Fund... It's okay to add it. ...the first point states that the Solidarity Fund, hereinafter referred to as the Fund, is aimed at social, professional, health and financial support for people with disabilities. And that's what we're sticking to. What do we have written down, and what are we already doing? The fund was created in a year. Here's what we do. The care services for people with disabilities - in the budget for this year 60 million zlotys, repeated in the budget for 2020, at the moment the amount we have already allocated is over 31 million zlotys. Rest-care - the programme is implemented, 23 million distributed, received more than 300 municipalities, in a budget of 110 million, the same confirmed in 2020. The care and residential centres, which are in this year's project and will be next year - the amount of PLN 50 million, the applications are already under consideration. The question has been raised here many times. The personal assistant of the disabled person - the programme is running, is dedicated to this year 30 million PLN, next year 50 million PLN, applications submitted by the voivodships, next year, if necessary, we will add the Solidarity Fund to this programme. And the most important thing that we have, which is today, is a supplementary benefit programme for people unable to live independently, or 500 PLN for people with disabilities - what we all wanted to ensure that people who are disabled, unable to live independently, over 18 years of age, receive support. This year, 811 million PLN (Mounting in the Chamber) is spent on this... Scandal. ...for next year PLN 4.5 billion. And that is, PLN 4.5 billion from the Solidarity Fund will be provided for this. We're not taking anything from anyone. Here we go. So? So? Now what? How many applications are submitted at the moment? By 14 November about 514 thousand were submitted. conclusions. These are applications which are submitted by the CSO, by the CRUs, considered, and granted... 500 PLN... ... 138,000. benefits. We expect to allocate PLN 811 million for this in 2019, PLN 4.5 billion next year. We're gonna take care of those people who are authorized to do this. Of course, the process is ongoing because there must also be a group of total incapacity. In addition, we supplement this with the new Accessibility Act for people with special needs - the Accessibility Fund, the amount of PLN 40 million for those activities that complement them. What do we change, what have we changed? That's worth saying, too. As far as care provision is concerned, the fight that has been fought for those who are under 18 years of age with disabilities - children, but also if acquired earlier, the entitled can continue to benefit from it. Next year this amount will amount to PLN 1830 without any taxes, pure amount. The amount of care allowance we raise from PLN 184 to PLN 215, the special care allowance increased from PLN 520 to PLN 620, etc. I can list the actions we're taking. All the tribute. As far as the WTZ is concerned, the increase in the amounts that we spend on this, in absolute figures - because I think it is important, here this amount has already fallen, said this to Mrs Wargock - in 4 years it will be PLN 5 billion of additional funds allocated to people with disabilities. The total funds that we will spend next year on support for people with disabilities, including this complementary provision, will amount to PLN 27 billion. In 2014 it was 14 billion PLN. So don't tell me we're taking someone because we're adding. What a silence. There's a lot of problems. Let's try to solve them together because people with disabilities need support, but let's not use the demagogy you've been practicing here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] All the tribute goes to treatment for the disabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u493	Thank you very much to the Minister for speaking. I now ask the representative of the applicants, Ms Ursula Rusecka, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was very embarrassed to listen to this debate, especially to the voices of the opposition parliamentarians who sat on these benches during the previous term of office. Tell me all the tributes are going to treatment. More than that. Key. Say it. Ladies and gentlemen! You were against everything. Hypocrisy really elevates you that you could really fly under the heavens. You were against the fund when we introduced it. You wanted to reject this project, just like you did now, at first reading. You were against the 13th pension, you said it was bribery. What are you... You were opposed to all the social programs of Law and Justice. Humiliation. Yes, sir. I apologize for our emotional reference to Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, which was against the introduction of the fund. Really, it's a shame, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister spoke in detail about the resources that are devoted to support and assistance for people with disabilities. This Law and Justice has been building a comprehensive support system for people with disabilities for 4 years, including through consultations. There is much more to be done in this regard. [[Applause]] That's a lie. Ma'am, don't yell. Don't yell either. I know what you were doing during the protest of people with disabilities with a friend who kept saying it wasn't a political protest. But keep your voice down. What are you telling me? Excuse me. You don't sit here as a result of a political protest... Can we just stop and lower our emotional levels for a second? You're welcome. Madam, just a moment, please. The whole tribute went 100%... What I'm trying to say is that in this... Wait a minute. Let's wait a minute. I would like to say that in this project that we are working on, the whole donation from the Solidarity Fund goes to support people with disabilities. [[Applause]] It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. There is one more thing I want to say here, especially to the parliamentarians of the Civic Coalition - the Civic Platform. This country was the master of creative accounting. This country has been allocated 150 billion from OFE to patch the budget hole. So what are we talking about? [[Applause]] The Solidarity Fund. Ladies and gentlemen! The Solidarity Fund will not take funds for people with disabilities. That's the most important thing. Please submit this bill for further processing. [[Applause]] How did you vote?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u495	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is a clear proof of the upcoming problems in financing all the electoral promises of Law and Justice. The project's reading suggests that there is not enough money in the Fund for Support for Persons with Disabilities to finance the tasks that the politicians of the Seym Majority intend to impose on it. The draft law therefore includes the possibility of borrowing from the state budget, to be more precise, from the demographic reserve. How and how are such loans to be repaid? The second important aspect of the amendment is the fact that the fund was created as a result of a 40-day protest by people with disabilities and their carers. Its main aim was to support the professional and health of people with disabilities. How, then, will the Fund carry out these tasks after a complete change in the powers conferred on it? What strictly targeted tasks should the Fund finance for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u497	In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading, to refer the draft law exclusively to the Committee on Public Finances, to refer the draft law exclusively to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty Act (print No 15).
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law provides for amendments to the excise tax law, the main purpose of which is to implement measures in the field of taxation. The draft provides for the indexing of excise duty rates for used excise goods, i.e. ethyl alcohol, beer, wine, fermented beverages, intermediate products, tobacco products, tobacco dried and novelty products. The last change in excise duty rates to ethyl alcohol and tobacco products took place on 1 January 2014 and amounted to 15% respectively. And 5%. The proposed amendment increases the rate of excise duty by 10%. 10% change in rates results, among others. with increasing costs to counter the social and health effects of alcohol and tobacco consumption. Pro-health policy is supported by the fact that almost 70,000 people die from detoxic diseases during the year. Poles, while alcohol causes 12 thousand. Deaths per year. It should be noted that since the last increase in excise duty rates for alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, the average monthly wage in the enterprise sector has increased by 31% and the minimum wage has increased by 34%. Ciders and perrys of a power not exceeding 5% have been excluded from the scope of the proposed indexing of excise duties on additives in order to facilitate the development of this market and indirect support for fruit production, which is one of the pillars of Polish agriculture. These products will remain taxed at a preferential rate of excise duty of PLN 97 per hl of finished product. It should be stressed that the proposed indexing of excise duty rates by 10% on drugs will not significantly affect price increases, which will be symbolic. For example, the price of a 0.75 l bottle of fruit wine will increase by 15 gr, in case of a pack of cigarettes the price will increase by approx. 1 PLN, the price of a 0.5 l bottle of vodka, 45% , increase by approx. PLN 1.4, while the price of 0.5 l beer will increase by approx. 6 gr. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed indexing of excise duties on alcoholic beverages, tobacco products will certainly have a positive impact on health policies, reduce the negative effects of drinking alcohol and smoking tobacco products. At the same time, this will increase budget revenue in 2020 and the following years by about PLN 1700 million. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u499	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Pole, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft law amending the excise duty Act, print No 15. The draft law provides for amendments to the excise duty Act of 6 December 2008. The last change in excise duty rates to ethyl alcohol and tobacco products took place on 1 January 2014 and amounted to 15% respectively. And 5%. The proposed amendment increases these rates by 10%. Ciders and perrys of a power not exceeding 5% have been excluded from the scope of the proposed excise indexing and electronic cigarettes for which a zero excise duty applies by the end of June 2020. The draft law contains detailed ranges of changes in the prices of ethyl alcohol, beer, wine products and cigarettes, smoking tobacco, cigars and cigarillos, as well as tobacco and novelty products. In the case of innovative products, taxation will take place from 1 July 2020. The planned date of entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2020. The proposed changes are health-promoting. Ha, ha, ha! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to request that the Government draft law amending the excise duty Act, print 15, be sent to work in the Committee on Public Finance and direct to the hands of the Marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u501	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Janusz Cichoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u502	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club to the government's draft law amending the excise duty law. First of all, I would like to say that the procedure is actually outrageous, given the government's earlier announcements, as well as proposals in this respect, which included key strategic financial documents. I'm talking about the APK, about the draft budget, where we had a proposal to increase excise duty by 3 percentage points. You are going much further and if we want to look at the tasks of the State in this area, it is probably essential to create stable conditions for doing business in general, as in any other business activity. Today, the rankings were called up during the debate and we showed how our ratings dropped. When it comes to the Doing Business ranking, there is a drop in four years from 25th to 40th place, before Mauritius - here we seem to be racing. But if we even looked at such a more advanced ranking of the World Economic Forum, where we have 12 pillars of competitiveness, among these pillars also the institution of the state, in terms of stability of economic policy, in 141 countries we are located in 123. If we wanted to see how the Polish country is located in this ranking, if it is, for example. with a long-term vision of economic development, this is the 102nd place. I understand, and we understand, that alcohol and cigarettes are special products, that the State should limit the consumption of such goods, because these are undesirable goods, turning in economic terms, i.e. goods whose consumption brings social costs, which a single buyer does not take into account, taking into account only its private cost. And this private cost is not equal to the social cost. We are dealing with information asymmetry, i.e. such incomplete knowledge of consumers about the effects of consumption of these products. On the other hand, the State has the task of collecting resources to mitigate these social impacts. In fact, the price should take account of the consequences, including those costs. It is clear that this is not the case with the PiS, because the PiS simply wants more money. That's the 1 billion 700 you're worried about. But you do not see what a surprise this is for the industry when it comes to alcohol products, alcohol producers, but also tobacco and tobacco producers. I would like to point out that apart from this excise duty it affects this industry, like any other industry in Poland, a number of solutions which the PiS government has recently introduced. These are new taxes and charges. The list of shame includes 38 items. Labour costs, water prices, energy prices, raw materials and these industries are growing in a context of growing uncertainty as well as what is happening in our environment. This is slowing down, these are the first symptoms, this is PMI, for example, but in the background we have it, and this is a clear proof that we are dealing with this slowing down already. Nevertheless, the government decides to make a leap change that carries quite serious risks. The effects can be really grieving (The Bell) because behind this may be the development of the grey zone, the decline in production as well as the decline in employment, and as a result the income of the leg is lower than expected. That's the kind of experience we've had. This lacks the justification for an in-depth analysis of these effects, and for this reason we are calling for the rejection of this draft law at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u503	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Tomasz Trela will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u504	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Just a few hours ago we heard in this room that everything is under full control that the budget is tight and the state of public finances is very well. It's been a few hours, Mr. Prime Minister's gone, your president's gone, and they're out. The first disgraceful one we talked about. The Solidarity Fund is really fulfilling the electoral request so that Law and Justice can come out face-to-face when it comes to the 13th pension. Now you are trying to raise extra money, nearly PLN 2 billion. And maybe I would accept the Minister's argument that if we increase excise duty, it will be less demand for tobacco, for alcohol, but, Minister, if you say so, I want to know - and we, as Left, want to know - what kind of programs you have and how this amount of 1,700 million you want to use, whether this is to be used for anti-alcoholic programmes, or whether this is just an additional add-on to the budget of billions of zlotys. Because today it looks like the right-wing coalition has been a little shaken up and you've lost most of it in terms of 30 times, and you're trying to increase your excise duty. Probably at the next session of the Sejm, you'll try to raise other taxes so that there'll be more of those billions of zloty. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Why not? I can hear you. Well, it's good for the voters that Law and Justice are preparing further increases in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Finance Committee, the Left will correct this project, we will make our own proposal for an amendment, because if we are talking and we want to talk about the real fight against alcoholism, we need to be sure and guarantee that excise money goes to such programmes. Today we do not have that certainty, but tomorrow, at the meeting of the finance committee, we will be asking about it and we will make appropriate amendments to this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u505	Thank you very much for speaking. I am now asking Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, who will make a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Club coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u506	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 the position of our club on the government draft law amending the excise duty law contained in the Seym printing No 15. High Izbo! The face of the government of the Republic of Poland Prime Minister Morawiecki increasingly on the Internet is called Gierek version 2.0. Of course, I'm looking right at the left side of the room. Don't worry, I won't, God forbid, criticize sleep in no way. Edward Gierek, however, unfortunately, the content of this law, the procedure of proceding over it, its foundings a little tedious sometimes to the first Secretary of Gierek. And that's not good, Minister. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The radical increase in excise duty - we know this, High Izbo, from previous experiences and in Poland, and in the countries of Europe - does not necessarily mean an increase in revenue to the state budget for this reason. On the contrary, it usually resulted in the fact that these influences were decreasing. And it doesn't have to go back to some distant story. What can further result from this solution? We are sure, as well as numerous examples of this, that this solution will contribute to the creation of a grey zone. This is about the gray zone, which has been limited in the case of alcohol and tobacco products recently by the efforts of various teams. And I, as a father in a moment of growing children, would not like to see in the media images of poisoning, health damage or health perturbation after drinking alcohol or cigarettes of unknown origin. And this unfortunately will happen with the solution you think it will have, with this different type of den, shady business will unfortunately be organized around illegal alcohol. High Izbo! And there's one thing you have to realize. Those who want to drink alcohol will eat this alcohol, but it will normally be more expensive and much worse quality, and to this, it seems to me that we should not allow it with such a light hand either. Finally, the increase in the rate provided by the Polish government will effectively block the development of Polish companies and reduce the competitiveness of their products vis-à-vis products that will come from abroad to Poland. And what's that gonna do? Reducing production volumes and job losses in the industry that produces alcohol and tobacco products. High Izbo! All of this together makes it impossible for us, as a club, to allow this bill to be dealt with. It's a classic moneyjump with a lot of dangerous things that will accompany it. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland makes a request to reject this project at first reading. At the same time, Minister, if the government of the Republic of Poland so cares about the health of Poles, the prevention of addiction, prepare - we are also helping - a separate project, which will guarantee the transfer, will guarantee - once again I stress - the transfer of excise funds to anti-dependent prevention and will add money to the budget for health policy in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u507	Thank you very much, sir. Please speak on behalf of Mr Konrad Berkowicz's Confederation of MPs.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u508	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki said here today that the Mega ZUS Act was supposed to serve to remove the alleged injustice of the fact that the better-placed pay lower taxes than the worse-placed ones. And I will draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that those who fall under the Mega ZUS law also fall into the highest tax threshold and pay twice as much income tax, 32%, so it is simply not true. It is true that the tax system is uneven and should be evened out, but not that those who pay lower taxes should start paying higher, only those who pay higher taxes should start paying lower. That is why we propose that the PiS simply implement its election promise 4 years ago and increase the tax-free amount accordingly, because it is very shy about it. It was the Confederation that decided to propose a bill increasing the tax-free amount so that at least PLN 30 200 was a tax-free amount. The point is that at least people earning minimum wage do not have to pay income tax on it, because this is an absurd situation when we say it's a minimum and then we deduct tax from it. Now we have a matter of excise duty. Mr Morawiecki just said that all taxes were reduced. In the meantime, one of the first laws that we vote on under the cover of the night, because it's ten to twelve... Under cover of the night, we vote on a bill that raises taxes again. They say it's about the health of Poles, about alcohol. In fact, these are just more excuses to raise taxes again to rob Poles of their hard-earned money. This tendency to raise taxes is not original for the PiS. The same was done by the predecessors of the Civic Platform: increased VAT, excise duty, a number of eliminated tax reliefs. That is why I would like to comment on this in the broader time horizon and not in my own words, but, finally, in the words of Kazik, who said this: a large part of the fruitage of the work devours the administrative and official apparatus, totalitarian socialism has turned into a concessional and ethical one. The bureaucracy since the fall of the commune has tripled, except that instead of one position, four parties fill. But basically it's one formation overly parasitic, such two sides of one flag, that's what I usually charge here. For example, at the price of petrol 70% It's a tax on maintaining this insatiable hydra, their children, wives and mothers. And actually, who doesn't drink vodka, he's a subversive, so consciously reducing the income of the state - a non-idealist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u509	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government's gonna tax alcohol so people don't drink, the government introduces income tax so people don't work, and it's really about getting paid. It's obvious. But they say it's about the drunk tax. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is the worst tax on the Polish province. Because if a bottle of vodka after deduction of all taxes cost not 20 zlotys, only 2 zlotys, then 18 zlotys would be left in the pocket of a drunkard, because you can't even drink unemployment benefits at 2 zlotys per 0.5 l. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So the 18 zlotys would stay here. He'd buy himself a bite, buy himself a sausage. He'd make a masseur, the one who makes pickles, the wife would buy something there. That masseur would've made money, started building a house. He'd make a bricklayer, and so on. This 18 PLN would run through the province and drive the economy. And so 18 zlotys go to Warsaw and drives bureaucracy. This is the worst tax possible for the province. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u511	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u512	Ladies and gentlemen! In the matter of raising excise duties, I wanted to warn the government here. As a rule, it is theoretically said that you can cross this tip of the Laffer curve when excise duty, taxes are rising and income is falling. I would like to remind you that this is not a purely theoretical phenomenon. We have dealt with it in Poland during the rule of the Civic Platform, exactly when it comes to excise duties on tobacco and about the years 2011, 2012, 2013. Exactly when the gray zone began to grow avalanche and the income stopped at a steady level. This is quite detailed in the report of the Republican Foundation of September 2012, the State's tax policy towards the tobacco industry and its economic and social consequences. It just so happens that I was working with the Dr. here. Stanisław Tyszka, currently Member of the Polish Coalition, in this foundation. Here I see Deputy Minister Leszek Skiba. We recommend this study, the idea being that the government avoids the mistakes that the Civic Platform has made, and we encourage you to read instructively. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u513	Thank you very much, sir. On this, the list of Members representing parliamentary clubs and the circle has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has also been closed. There are twenty-seven of them... Me too. Twenty-eight, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Questioning time is 60 seconds. I ask you to ask Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u514	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The series titled: The budget without deficit, but the saddest part of all is that Prime Minister Morawiecki has been using sponsored articles for 2-3 days, interviews in tabloids trying to prove to us all that it is not about raising excise duty, it is not about budget without deficit, but it is about health of Poles. I would like to make the House aware of the problems. In Poland 80% burning Poles would like to quit this habit. Does the High Chamber know how many NFZ-funded anti-smoking clinics are in Poland? All over the country, High Izbo, there are five anti-smoking clinics. Why are there only five of them? Because it's simply uneconomical to lead them. The NFZ pays for the first visit, which is a comprehensive visit for the patient, 40 PLN. Is that how you're gonna get rid of your addictions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that how you want to fight nicotine? The increase in excise duty has nothing to do with it. Let us deal with the health problems of Poles, which are related to alcoholism and tobacco, seriously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u515	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u516	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been a week since we took our vows, and we already have two projects that result in raising taxes, and as I see a highly respected minister more and more often in the Sejm, it is clear that the Law and Justice will break their own record very quickly during this term of office, i.e. almost 40 laws passed introducing new taxes and raising existing ones. I just have a question about whether this is a road that is good for Poland. It doesn't seem like it. The National Chamber of Commerce, when assessing this project, clearly states that, first, it is a very high rate, disproportionately high growth. This is an impulse to expand the gray zone. The people who know about it, the experts in this industry say that this will result in a decrease in budget revenue. You will exceed the acceptable level of tax burden for Poles, product prices will increase and therefore there will be a strong impetus to the so-called. private import. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This will, of course, be another blow to the brewing industry resulting in redundancies. Minister, have you analyzed anything in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u517	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u518	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Does the government really think that increasing the price of a bottle of vodka by PLN 1.4, wine by 15 gr or a can of beer by 6 gr will make the nation come out of addictions, drink less and smoke less? Of course not. Even in the explanatory memorandum of this law, the author does not raise citizens' health issues at all, because he well knows that rising prices, especially to such a small extent, will not change anything at all. In fact, the scale of PiS hypocrisy in the case of this law shows the fact that the government does not intend to allocate a penny of this increase to the health of its citizens, to the fight against addiction, to anti-alcoholic prevention or to education of children and young people in terms of the negative effects of smoking and drinking. You just want to rip out the pockets of Poles again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u519	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u520	Minister! I wanted to ask you, what changed between September 30th and today? You promised companies in the tobacco and alcohol industries a 3% increase in excise duty. That's what you put in the budget. The elections have passed, and you're proposing a 10% increase in excise duty. And you say it's a health tax. Where in this project did you write that this PLN 1.7 billion will go directly to the National Health Fund for the treatment of Poles? It's just bullshit. The State does not recognise the legal certainty of the conduct of business. The words of Prime Minister Morawiecki that he will respect, consult - it is simply, as young people say, a lie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u521	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. What are you spending money on that budget? Not 13 anymore, because that's what you're taking a loan for. Who's gonna pay it back? How will it be repaid in the fund? You're gonna add people with disabilities to the fund? I doubt it. I have a proposition for you, and you might be able to rehabilitate a little, so that you don't take all this raise to the budget. You can share a little. I suggest you get 1%. , more or less, they have earmarked for two funds, e.g. a fund for extracurricular activities, which has the possibility to carry out preventive programmes for children and young people from families with disabilities affected by alcoholism, and the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u523	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The increase in excise duty surprises not only consumers but also producers. This is due to the accumulation of excise duty increases with other burdens, i.e. the increase in labour costs, raw materials, minimum wages or compulsory employee capital plans. It's all about inflationary pressure. In turn, a sharp increase in the price of the product results in a decrease in sales and consequently a decrease in employment. In addition, the increase in excise duty and social security changes will have a strong impact on the development of investment in our country, and rapid price increases can help to increase the share of the grey economy. As a result, budget revenue may be lower than expected. Is this the right direction to look for budget revenue? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u525	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I do not think that government officials are able to provide unverified information on the allocation of funds from increased excise duties. What you are doing is nothing more than saving the budget of Prime Minister Morawiecki, the so-called. a balanced budget, at the expense of the citizens, of course. There is no anti-alcoholic programme here, there are no preventive programmes that will be financed from the additional resources we are discussing today. Therefore, it is worth considering during the committee work those proposals which provide for the allocation of these funds to specific programmes. Maybe not entirely, but it is important that we signal that citizens can also use it for other purposes by allocating funds (the bell) for the purchase of excise goods. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u527	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u528	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please inform me whether you really believe that an increase in alcohol prices by such a small amount will make people stop drinking alcohol or consume less alcohol. Raise more. Poland loses its fight against alcoholism, but in the justification of this law I do not see any specific programs concerning alcoholism. How do you want to counteract drinking in excess of alcohol? Any preemptive programs, health policies, alcohol reduction? What health programs? It's not there. Tell me what you're gonna do with the money from the excise increase, because this project in this shape doesn't make any sense at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u529	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u530	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All the time, you're referring to substantive work, project discussions, but such hypocritical projects are hard to work on. You say it's about health issues and increased excise duty. So I'm asking you what other ways you're gonna figure out to reduce alcohol consumption. Or will there be a reduction in sales? What programmes do you propose, and exactly what programmes should this budgetary impact be spent on? That's the most important thing. If you are saying that the aim of this law is to improve the health of Poles, then the question is why the applicant is sending this project to the finance committee and not to the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u531	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u532	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project concerns not only consumers but also entrepreneurs. I do not know with whom you have consulted this project, but certainly not with entrepreneurs, because if you had consulted with entrepreneurs, you would not have written in the explanatory memorandum such a statement that: The rules apply equally to all entrepreneurs regardless of their size, so their impact on the functioning of micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises will not make their situation worse. Anyone who had even a small consultation with the brewing industry, especially small businesses, would know how competitive this industry is, how much depends on the margin, how much money it needs for investment and modernisation. And the brewing industry, especially small enterprises, will carry out their production from Poland and this low-percent product in Poland, but there will be no Polish and there will be no Polish product everywhere. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you to consult with entrepreneurs because they feel that they are being wronged by the rules that will be introduced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u533	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u534	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today the Prime Minister said that he was only lowering all taxes, and here please: from day to day, from hour to hour raises the burden for the beer industry from 3% to 10. And again, the Prime Minister lied. Honestly, I wonder if he's ever telling the truth. Is this, according to the PiS and your Prime Minister, the predictability of the law and the certainty of the regulatory environment? After all, in recent times you have increased or introduced parataxes and other loads - out of 20 different such burdens. This does not encourage investment, and I remind you that only investments provide guarantees for sustainable economic development. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u535	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mr Maciej Necessary, representative of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I could probably find some good arguments against this project. I could argue, for example, about the procedure and the lack of consultation. I could do it just to make it harder for PiS to make it harder for PiS to reach the budget, but I won't, because I'm a prostater. [[Applause]] and concern for the Polish budget is also my concern. There are good and bad ways to take care of the budget. This small increase in excise duty is in my opinion a good way and I am ready to support this increase. Bravo. Me too. It would be good, however, to ensure that, at a further stage of work, if it were to happen, the resources obtained from this increase are used for specific purposes. Oncology treatment would really be a super idea. My question to the applicants is this: Are they ready at the next stage of their work to ensure that these obtained funds go to oncology treatment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u537	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, representative of the parliamentary club Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That was a funny reason. If increases in alcohol prices are virtually unnoticed by consumers, how will they reduce consumption, ergo, improve public health? I ask for detailed estimates of how this excise increase will affect specific consumer groups that they will stop wanting to buy alcohol and cigarettes. In particular, I am referring to consumers of monkeys, and also to young people reaching for alcohol and cigarettes. I would also ask you to refer this proposal to the Health Committee when it comes to public health. And I'm asking for detailed -- detailed -- calculations of what you're going to use your money for, revenue from increased excise duty, quota and percentage. For what purpose, exactly? Thank you. [[Applause]] For vodka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u539	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, representative of the parliamentary club of the Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u540	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the alcohol industry is concerned, I've been familiar with the kitchen business. Oh! I've worked in it for over 20 years. Still in Polmosa, later in the wholesale, then in detail. And I'll tell you from experience, because I've traded these goods, that it really doesn't give more money to the budget, and it's gonna affect the growth of the gray zone, and it's gonna only affect the flow of illegal alcohol. In my case, because it's the Podlaskie voivodship from across the eastern border. Plus, this bill only goes on because I worked in Western corporations... I'm saying 90%. foreign companies have a ownership stake in our country. We're basically just left with fruit wines. It's all in Western hands. Yeah, that's why we're putting our pockets in Western corporations. The Prime Minister spoke in an exposé about waiting for a law that will be in the European Union (the bell) that they will eventually be taxed. We only influence the better results of Western corporations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u541	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Barbara Nowacka, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u542	I have this question: Why are you being so ridiculous and so ridiculous about the serious problem of alcoholism in Poland? Why, under the cover of the night, in quick mode, without any consultation, without showing what 1700 million are going to go for, are you going to go for it? Why can't you tell me that you're just short of money, just pretending to be health programs? Stop being hypocrites. If you wanted to really counteract alcoholism, you would propose to the Health Committee, you would show that this excise money would go to anything meaningful, not to your companies in the Treasury, so that you could live better. Are you transferring this money to oncology? Are you transferring to health programs? Do you pass on alcohol prevention among children and young people? What are the next steps? What about the monkeys? What about the relentless sale of alcohol in all the stores? And how are you going to help alcoholics? You guys don't want that, 'cause you just want to put a little bit of money in the budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if that's the case, just say it boldly. Otherwise, you'll be cowards. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u543	Mr Paweł Szramka, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice representative made us aware that raising excise duty would improve the health of Poles. Brave theory, I'd say. I'd be happy to get a look at the analyses, the research you've done on this bill. I understand that it is perfectly prepared, so you have analysis here, etc., which allows you to say so. I agree, you may be right. I may not know myself as much as you do. You may be right that actually an increase in excise duty will lead to this. But since a few or a dozen percent will improve the health of Poles, let us not limit ourselves. [[Applause]] Let's say 100, 200, 300. Really healthy Poles cannot be spared, my dears. [[Applause]] I'd like to request a motion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u545	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And here we have the experience, the first experiences after the exposé, which turns out to be exposé lies. We had five Kaczyńskis in the election campaign. We already know that the first point of Kaczyński's Friday is to raise the excise duty on lubricating oils from 1 November. To be honest, I don't know what kind of justification you were giving at the time, because it was difficult to recover. Today we have a fee and excise duty on alcohol and tobacco. You can, of course, get better. But how will you, ladies and gentlemen, argue to increase excise duty on fuel? Because you've been raising the fuel charge since January 1st. You're gonna get better, too? But if they drink less, they're healthier. If they drive less, they'll be healthier and thinner too. Ladies and gentlemen, stop with the hypocrisy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u547	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Decree of the Minister for Development and Finance of 24 February 2017, i.e. the former and current Prime Minister of Morawiecki, on excise duty exemptions exempts from this burdensome tax beer, wine and fermented beverages produced by natural persons by domestic means for their own use and not for sale. Therefore, I strongly appeal, especially as a Member elected from the Podlaskie Voivodeship: If you want to increase excise duty on alcohol, free the circulation of these Just the products, free the spirit of the wilderness. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u549	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing a 10% increase in excise duty on alcohol. Let me remind you that in 2014 the increase in excise duty on alcohol was 15%. [[Touchdown, applause]] We're healthier. 15% . Now we're discussing 10%. What effect did that have? Such that at that time, in 2014, the minimum wage could be paid for 100 bottles of vodka, and now, after this increase and of course after the minimum wage increase, in 2020 142 bottles of vodka could be bought for the minimum wage. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh... No... Alcoholism. That's not what Morawiecki said. This is the measure of the success of the PiS. Following on from Mrs Hennig-Kloski's thinking, Mrs Monica Rosa, taking into account the scientific opinion (The Bell) that alcoholism is also dependent on economic availability, Minister... And the question? ...wouldn't it be worth it with a higher excise increase? [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u551	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u552	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Kowalczyk, when the excise duty was lifted before, no one was tempted to make such cunning excuses as your political community was tempted to do. That's the title of reference. And what were you saying back then? On the other hand, Minister, I would like to ask a short and specific question. What is the result of this amount of 1700 million? Tell the High House what was the method of reaching that amount, which shows whether you are concerned that sometimes the entire operation can cause losses and not profits for the budget. It would be good for this to happen, because from the justification of the project it is absolutely impossible to read it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u553	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Electricity prices are rising, water prices are rising, food prices are rising, garbage exports, gas prices, fuel prices are rising. I do not know if you know, but from the new year fuel will increase, which means that Poles will pay more for fuel at gas stations again. Today, however, we are investigating another project, which will increase the burden. We're going to have an increase in excise duty on alcohol and tobacco products. It was going to be so beautiful, it was going to be enough for everything, and again, in order to fulfill your promises, you will rob Poles. Minister, I have a question for you, what exactly are you going to use this amount of 1,700 million that will be obtained from an increase in excise duty? [[Applause]] For vodka. Slivovice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u555	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u556	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a specific question for the applicants. What was the real purpose of this proposed increase, ladies and gentlemen? You can see there's no money left. You can see the money's missing. But do you think those people who are eating the most not necessarily the best quality alcohol today will go to those stores and leave that much more money there? No, they'll be looking for it somewhere else. There won't be any major budget revenue. But you can prove yourselves, ladies and gentlemen. Let's just say that this money is actually going to go to the prevention programs that we're going to decide here. And there was a simple proposal: oncology programs, there really is a lot of money missing. I am a new Member, but ladies and gentlemen (the bell), these consultations I'm afraid you can't see. I can see that. There's no consultation. Question: "Did you consult with the Episcopate?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u557	Thank you very much, sir. On this, the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. I ask Minister Leszek Skiba to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This was a very interesting discussion about the health effects of an increase in excise duty rates on drugs such as alcohol and tobacco. There's been a lot of questions. Maybe I'll start with budget issues. If you remember the draft budget for 2020 announced in September, there was already information about over PLN 1 billion - this is a figure similar to that presented in the OSR - and there is additional revenue from the increase of excise duties on tobacco and alcohol. At the same time, this draft budget is defined by an expenditure page, which is what the money will go for. In the draft budget for 2020 we have more than 5% in this respect. GDP. This is the highest share of health expenditure in history, you can say, in relation to GDP. Over 5% GDP are the resources that are earmarked or planned to be allocated to health. This is over PLN 109 billion. If, therefore, questions are raised about what will happen to the money that will go to the state budget as a result of the adoption of this law, then the draft budget law announced in September indicates the increasing expenditure on health, among other things. These are the ones that were mentioned today - expenditure on combating the consequences of smoking, alcohol consumption, oncology treatment. There's more spending, new investments. They are indicated in the draft budget for 2020 and it is worth reaching to this draft budget to see what this law is really for. It is precisely to finance rising health expenditure, not only in terms of value but also in relation to GDP. Two Members, Mrs Hennig-Kloska and Mrs Monika Rosa, ask why so few. If, therefore, there are persons in this Chamber who would like to propose an increase in the rate, this rate of excise duty increase, then, of course, Mr Kowalczyk will be interested in discussing, of course, such a proposal from Members to accept. I think the committee meeting that is scheduled for tomorrow is a good place to discuss it. There's also a question about the gray area. The discussion about the gray area is important because indeed in recent years the National Tax Administration has achieved success. He talked about it, among other things. President Cezary Kaźmierczak, paying attention to the record low number of illegal cigarettes that are in Poland and appeared from the eastern neighbours. We are dealing with a situation where the National Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance, is dealing very well with the grey zone. We've got a falling amount of illegal alcohol, cigarettes, tobacco dryness. The tobacco dryer is covered by the SENT mechanism. So we have a huge success and we can say that really this increase is estimated at 10% it is so safe that there should be no risk of a renewed growth of the grey area. The report of the Republican Foundation, which Mr Bosak was talking about, has been analysed, and we are so aware that excessive growth in this area could actually increase the grey zone. This has been thoroughly analysed and this 10% rate for alcohol and tobacco is secured, you can say, by action from the National Tax Administration. These expenditures are indeed presented in the draft budget law. It is worth remembering that in the Czech Republic, since 1 January 2020, an increase in excise duty on tobacco will also be presented or announced. We are dealing with a situation in which neighbours are going in a similar direction as we are, which is not that we are among the few countries that decide to raise excise duty. The last thing, Mr Paszik's question, is how this amount was calculated. This is the standard method. We know how much excise revenue we have based on current rates. We're raising the stakes by 10%. So we're assuming by this 10%. we will achieve more, and we have some flexibility in what scale, when we assume a 1-percent increase in price, there will be an escape from this product, that is, the transition to a grey zone, the transition to competitive goods - competitive compared to beer. Very often these are other drinks. We have flexibility. This tells us the extent to which consumption will fall. This allows us to calculate what income is based on the rise in excise duty. Let me remind you that these are not really great values. This is so safe that we can say that the designed budget revenue will actually end up there in 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u559	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Hennig-Kloska, just a short time ago. But in what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u560	Corrigendum. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You completely misunderstood me. I wasn't asking why so little, I was just asking why you were doing some kind of hypocrisy again. I do not think that this bill will cause any increase in the gray zone, I do not think that the nation will be healthier than it is. I just don't think that you're gonna use it for any health purposes, prevention programs, but at best you're gonna use it for Kurski for New Year's Eve with Two, which even the people of Zakopane don't want, or worse, to invest a businessman from Torun. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u561	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. [[Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens.]] [[Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the communication of the Polish Employers' Association, we can read that they strongly oppose such gross violations of the standards of legislation as was the case in this case. Such a way of dealing with changes which have a major impact on the functioning of enterprises violates the principle of legal certainty and adversely affects trading certainty and the development of entrepreneurship. In addition, the rise in excise duty rates will have a bearing on the prices of goods, and this in turn may increase the share of the grey zone in the excise goods market. I ask you to answer the questions: Why is this project on the agenda without public consultation? Why has a 3% increase on excise duty been recorded in the draft budget since April, and now it is proposed to increase dramatically to 10%?]] In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to refer it further to the Health Committee. We will proceed to the vote on the proposed proposals in the voting block. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 min 28 to hour 0 min 30]] We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons and some other laws. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading, to refer the draft law to the Committee on Public Finances exclusively, and to refer the draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. If this proposal is rejected, we will decide on proposals for referral of the bill. Just a moment, because the MPs are making cards. We'll wait a minute. Now. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the motion to reject the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in prints 13 and 13-A will want to raise your hand and press the button. It's not working. Who's against it? Isn't it working? It's working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 211, 227 against, with one abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the conclusion of the referral of the bill. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is to refer the draft law to two committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social and Family Policy. In the first place, I will put to the vote a motion to refer the bill only to the Committee on Public Finance, and in the event of rejection of this proposal, a proposal to refer the draft law only to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. Rejection of both of these proposals will mean that the Sejm has submitted a draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. We proceed with the vote on the referral of the bill to the Committee on Public Finances only. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to refer the draft law contained in print 13 and 13-A to the Committee on Public Finance alone, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The vote was 233, 215 against, no one abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. I propose that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a deadline for the committee to submit a report enabling it to be examined on 21 November. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Objection? Then we'll vote it out. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to set a deadline for the committee to submit a report enabling it to be examined on 21 November will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 232 was in favor, against - 215, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the excise duty law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, as well as to refer the draft law to the Health Committee in addition. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law at first reading. If this proposal is rejected, we will decide on the referral of the bill to the committee. The question was raised by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition. Here you go, one minute, sir. Oh...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u562	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister, High Izbo! I have a question. In whose interest are you really introducing, apart from the increase in the quota rate for tobacco products, also the increased percentage rate? Which of the main players in the tobacco market will benefit from this? What is the reason for this special preference? This is a violation of the consensus adopted 10 years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u563	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill at first reading. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 15 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 197 were in favor, against - 245, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We will now proceed with the decision to refer the bill to the committee. The proposal submitted by the Bureau of the Sejm is that the draft be sent to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. In the discussion, a request was made to refer this draft law in addition to the Health Commission for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral to the Health Committee. I can't hear you objecting. Objection. Objection? Then we'll vote it out. Oh... But opposition to what? Ladies and gentlemen, in that case, because the proposal is not entirely correct, we will first vote on the referral to the finance committee and then, if it does not pass, the opposite vote. Why would you do that? Who of you is in favour of referring this project to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. It was 240 against 209 and 2 stopped. The project will be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance. We proceed with the vote on the motion for additional referral of the bill to the committee. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request for additional referral to the Health Committee of the draft Act No. 15 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 217 was in favor, against - 232, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. I propose that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, set a time limit for the submission of a report enabling it to be considered on 21 November this year. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. There's an objection. Oh... objection. In that case, we shall proceed with the vote on this proposal. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to set a deadline for the committee to submit a report enabling it to be examined on 21 November will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. It was 231, 218 against, one holding back. The Sejm accepted the offer. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 19 November this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left, has the floor. Mr President, if you'd like to come in. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to allow me to make a statement, so please, Members, if you wish to have a conversation, it is in the cockroaches. Mr President, I would like to invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u564	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement today is about improving security on national road 15 between September and Gniezno. Today, as part of the exposé, the Prime Minister spoke a lot about improving road safety, including road safety. relevant road investments, construction of bypasses and the introduction of rules amending the current rules. In this regard, the mayor of the city and the municipality of Czernejewo, Mr Tadeusz Szymanek, asked me on several occasions to ask the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways Branch in Poznań, firstly, to carry out a comprehensive renovation of the road Września - Gniezno on the section Czeluścin - Gniezno, national road No 15. In response to these requests, it was stated that this renovation was to start in 2019. As the mayor writes, the next deadline will not be met, and therefore he asks for intervention. Secondly, as part of the improvement of security, both the council of seniors and the Jewish people ask for light signals to be created in this village. Third, with regard to improving the safety of residents, especially those visiting the cemetery there, they ask for a speed limit on national road 15 and a speed limit of 70 km/h. I therefore request that the Ministry and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways concerned respond to the letters and interventions of the local authorities, who represent their residents and fight for the right to the safety of residents on national road No 15. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u565	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u566	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One fragment of today's exposé, which has escaped most commentators, deserves special emphasis and discussion, because this passage, in which Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about foreign policy, in which he spoke about world challenges and who has sacrificed threats, pointing out that these threats are the Far East, the Middle East and the nearest East, requires a specific comment. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Far East, the markets of East Asia, but not only are we talking about China, because these are also Korea, Taiwan, Japan, South-East Asia, India. It's where Central Asia bows down. The Middle East is also so rich in raw materials, but also so rich in markets which are very open to Polish production, such as the Iranian market for Polish agricultural production. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an emphasis by Mr Morawiecki and the introduction of Asia, all of Asia with its markets, with its raw materials, also with our closest neighbours, who of course have caused us a lot of problems in history and do not disappear, but not disappear as neighbours, all in a situation where the President of France is coming back from China with contracts for 14 billion, all in a situation where the world is becoming increasingly multipolar, in which Poland has a lot to win in this international competition, but also very much to lose, declaring by the Prime Minister of the Polish Government with our position, so beneficial, in terms of trade issues as well as geostrategic issues, it is something that the government is not really loved in the European Union, as well as in the United States, even in the Republican establishment, that is true, because the idea of this government is such as its propaganda, so they think that it rules something so much closer to the confederation in Poland, and it is not true in Poland today, and it is not true in Poland. With such a government, with such a portrait, it is really close to geopolitical partners from the most important continent on Earth today, Asia, trade and economic partners. Besides, we've been experiencing this in recent years. Through economic, political, intelligence decisions and what geopolitics say the government has closed itself to Asia and the Chinese direction. And after the opening that President Duda made, we have a complete lockdown here. This is an absurd situation. This is a situation that puts us among the Western countries, both in NATO and in the European Union, in an even greater periphery. It's blocking us from any possibility of a strategic, diplomatic game between powers. And Poland's policy was, is, and will be, a policy in relation to great powers, regional powers, European powers, world powers. Ladies and gentlemen, this unappreciated exposition of Prime Minister Morawiecki today should be particularly studied. A special case study of a large European country, which, at its own request, is placed in a corner, in a geopolitical corner, facing a wall, setting up itself as a patent towards the Berlin centre and the Washington centre, international. Scandal. This is, ladies and gentlemen, something unheard of and from this story, also from this passage, but above all from the implementation of this policy, this government will be very rigorously accountable. Today we raise the password of multi-vector, multi-polar policy, because the world is multi-polar. If this team, this government has been mantrating about Budapest over the Vistula River so many times, look at this Budapest, look at how Prime Minister Orbán takes Erdoğan, Putin, meets with Angela Merkel and the Americans can do their business. Look at this, open your eyes and stop living out-of-the-way theories from the '80s. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u567	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u568	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the situation that has arisen in Castorama Poland in relation to relations between the employer and the employees representing the trade union Well, Castorama has never done well in terms of relations and social dialogue between.Solidarity and the employer. Amongst other things, in December 2018.Solidarity entered into a collective dispute, demanding an increase in gross wage of PLN 900, as well as a 10% reduction in employment. However, the employer did not want to hear about it and founded his own trade unions, so-called. Yellow trade unions. Therefore, Solvency decided to carry out an action for development and promotion. Another problem was the fact that Solvency did not want to accept the way in which the employer wanted to use the welfare fund. Solvency did not want the funds from this fund to be spent on integration events in the form of social-funded discotheques, i.e. from all employees. Whether this was mentioned at the meeting of the company's board of directors or whether it was for other activities, I do not know, whereas on 5 November the board of directors Castoramas of 11 trade union activists, members of the NSZZ Solvency Commission in Castorama, received disciplinary dismissals. They were activists of the Solidarity movement from Kalisz, Słupska, Zgorzelec, Lublin, Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskiego and Łódź. At this point, it should be stressed that these persons are under special legal protection and the employer has no right to dismiss them without the consent of the management board of the NSZZ Solvency Association. Castorama is probably aware that he is seriously violating not only the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which art. 23 point 4 accepts that each person has the right to establish trade unions and to join these unions in order to protect his or her interests. Perhaps Castorama Poland does not know that it violates Convention No 85 on union coalition, freedom of association in trade unions. Perhaps he does not know that he is also breaking the fundamental law, leaving aside, of course, social dialogue issues in this context. In this company, according to the information provided by Solvency, the dialogue is long gone. I don't know what to do in this situation. Undoubtedly, the High House must know that in the 21st century, the company whose main shareholder is Kingfisher, an English entity, trade union rights are being violated. I think the chief labour inspection will take care of it. From this point, of course, in my oral form, I ask Castorama Polska's main shareholder to restore the exempt trade union activists so that he does not introduce the 19th-century capitalism scenarios, because it does not suit such a serious company as Kingfisher's main shareholder. By the way, I will also make a written request to the main shareholder to influence the destructive activities of Castorama Polska sp. z o.o. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u569	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u570	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is unpleasant that I am still performing at this time and I am absorbing you, especially the workers. The matter may seem insignificant, but due to the deadline it is important to make this statement right now. What is it about? It concerns a diamond anniversary, a diamond anniversary, which is the 75th anniversary of the Congress of the American Polonia. Couldn't it wait? No, it's not. No, especially after the speech of the Prime Minister, who lacked information, there was no interest in Polonia. That is why I would like to make this huge role clear to you and to all who will read this statement. The Congress of American Polonia was founded in 1944 and had two goals, nationwide freedom and independence and aid actions for ruined Poland. A few days ago, the current President, Mr Frank Spula, celebrating this anniversary, spoke about these two activities that Congress has done perfectly - and the helping ones, and the political ones. Four CEOs: Mr Karol Rozmarek, Mr Alojza Mazewski, Mr Edward Moskal and present - Frank Spula. Each of them has done things and is now doing great things for Poland. It was this voice of criticism of President Charles Rozmarz that caused someone to hear about Poland not only that there are white bears here, but that this is a country that is fighting - as maybe at a given moment - for its freedom. Let us not forget that it was then transferred, that the American Polonia collected and transferred to Poland more than 160 million dollars to rebuild the ruined homeland. It was an extremely important sum. The next years were a struggle to ensure Poland's ability. It was the voice of criticism of the Polish People's Republic's reality in the United Nations. It was then an effort to make it important and important for Poland to enter the UN. It was an effort, it was extremely... Excellent diplomat, President Alojza Mazewski, conducting talks with President Reagan, leading this assistance in various fields, including in the Vatican with the Holy Father John Paul. II. It was all an invaluable help for Poland, but not only. Let us say to ourselves: in the times of solidarity, it was again a huge humanitarian and financial aid at a similar level as immediately after the war. And finally, in 1990, when Poland becomes a fully independent country, thanks to the efforts of President Edward Moskal, the American government allocates 800 million dollars to strengthen Poland's economy. Of course, I am talking about all of this in a huge summary, because it is not possible otherwise, but I would like to wish for all Poles, and there is a huge group of them - those people who form the Congress of American Polonia - to wish that their actions were the same as they are now, but that they never again have to fight for Poland free and independent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u571	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u572	Dear Marshal! In view of the problems with my ballot, I declare that by vote No 15 at the 1st session of the Sejm on 19 November 2019 at 3 p.m. 21:33:44 I voted against the programme of the Council of Ministers presented by the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. against a request for a vote of confidence. Please attach my statement to the minutes of the current session of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u573	Dear Marshal! In view of the problems with my ballot, I declare that by vote No 15 at the 1st session of the Sejm on 19 November 2019 at 3 p.m. 21:33:44 I voted against the Council of Ministers' programme of action proposed by the Council of Ministers to give it a vote of confidence. At the same time, I declare that I voted in favour in votes Nos 17 and 22 at the same session of the Sejm on 19 November 2019. The reasons for not registering the votes were also the problems with the ballot card. Please attach my statement to the minutes of the current session of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u574	Mrs. Marshal! During the vote for Prime Minister Morawiecki, my voting machine refused to obey. Like all the Left, I voted against. Please note my will.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u575	Dear Marshal! In view of the problems with my ballot, I declare that in the votes at the 1st session of the Sejm on 19 November 2019: - No 14 at 10 p.m. 21:32:31 I voted in favour, - No. 15 o'clock. 21:33:44 I voted against the programme of the Council of Ministers presented by the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. against a request for a vote of confidence. Please attach my statement to the minutes of the current session of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u576	On 19 November I took part in all the votes, but during the vote no.22 the reader apparently did not work because the voting statistics showed that I did not vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-19-sejm-01-3.u577	I hereby order the adjournment of the sitting until 21 November this year. up to 3 p.m. 15. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 54]]
