ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u1	High Senate! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Senators, please. Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Alexander Swede It's about taking seats at the president's table. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. As announced earlier, I propose to supplement the agenda with items: the Act amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, the Act on the Organisation and Functioning of Pension Funds and the Law on Banking Law and consider this item as item 8 of the agenda; Act on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology and consider this item as item 11 of the agenda; the Act amending the National Property Resources Act and certain other laws and consider this item as item 12 of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider this item as item on the 15th agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't see why not. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Thank you very much. We're coming... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1187 and the report of the Commission In print No 1187 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! At the meeting of the Senate Health Committee on 21 May, we considered a point on the amendment of the Act on Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutritional Use and Medical Devices and some other laws... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please be quiet, because it is difficult for the senator to report how he has such a fuss in the courtroom. Quiet, please.]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. This law affects two important areas of the health system. The first issue that is addressed in this Act concerns access to medical devices for persons with disabilities. The proposed amendments support the implementation of a system which exempts persons receiving an order for medical devices from the obligation to confirm the right to benefits in the voivodship of the National Health Fund. It will be verified via the electronic system, so that the patient will go to the store or pharmacy directly from the doctor's office. In addition, the proposal provides for a significant reduction in the number of data on the order and will allow the Health Minister to issue additional simplified models in order to further reduce the volume of the form. The second important aspect of the Act is the change concerning the project financing model, so-called. TOPSOR. In general, it can be said that all SORs in Poland will be included in this project and will be financed by the Ministry of Health. The Health Commission unanimously adopted this law without amendment and asks the Senate to adopt it without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Mr Janusz Cieszyński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Tomasz Grodzki. Minister, you're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u4	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In general, this law should be regarded as a step in the right direction, although it is hybrid, because it is about refund, and suddenly this TOPSOR comes in, i.e. Here's an explanation for the senators. The patient service mode in the SOR, which speaks of segregation. I have a question for the Minister why such a strange form of donation was chosen. It's through the Air Emergency Service. I understand that the Air Emergency Service is working with most of the S.R.s, but not all hospitals have airfields and yet 80%. patients, and even more, go to the S.R. with ambulances, not with a helicopter. Why such a strange formula for this expensive grant?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u5	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u6	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This is mainly due to the regulation of European funds, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. The Ministry itself cannot be the beneficiary in these programmes. An alternative to a situation in which the beneficiary, the system's organiser, is the Air Rescue Service, would be a situation in which all the operators who run hospital rescue units would be beneficiaries, which would lead to an avalanche increase in bureaucracy associated with the introduction of this system, which we as the Ministry are always trying to avoid. Thus, such a construction, in which the Air Emergency Service as an institution, which is part of this system, can be said to have appropriate competence, is also, of course, in constant contact with the Ministry of Health, there is and at the same time coordinates the process of signing these partnership agreements with all entities that have hospital rescue units.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u7	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Do you want to ask? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u8	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I, knowing the situation of my colleagues in the LPR, have a question of whether you are convinced that they have sufficient administrative power to carry out this operation in the case of several hundred SORs. And the other thing. Will the LPR get anything on this? This is not the case in the law, i.e. Does he have any commission to run this operation? How's it look?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u9	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u10	Well, here we don't foresee a commission formula. Air Emergency Service is operating here in application mode. It cannot be assumed that the Air Emergency Service would have made an application which would be contrary to the interests of the institution. Well, he's got to sign the director's name under that motion. So that I can't imagine that Professor Gałązkowski and his team would sign anything that would in any way be detrimental to the institution they represent.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Richard Majer. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here, across the street... I am very pleased that the Ministry of Health has dealt with the topic of hospital emergency services, because this is a very sensitive element of our health system. Will this regulation also be followed, Minister, by thinking about increasing funds for hospital rescue units? At the moment, they are contracted from the National Health Fund in general like other branches, while the problem for SORs is the right medical staff. There's still a flow of doctors, a low number of doctors with a specialty: rescue medicine. The truth is, there aren't many people who want to work at the S.R. because it's hard to work there. If anyone's on a 12-hour shift, he's been up for 12 hours. Does the Ministry of Health think about certain adjustments in the system of financing hospitals and emergency services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u13	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u14	Thank you very much. Of course, it is very right to point out to the senator that, together with organisational changes which somehow change the functioning of hospital emergency services, financial resources should also appear. As you may know, in recent weeks more than PLN 4 billion have been transferred to the National Health Fund. This will enable increased funding, among others. in the field of hospital treatment. We will also want to direct additional funds to hospital emergency services, because in addition to the change of the system, this modification is the subject of the Act discussed today, we foresee a number of other changes that will improve the functioning of hospital emergency units. We are aware that the necessary element of these changes is also the modification of the method of financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u15	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? If there isn't, thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Very briefly. He often complains that things in health care are not working well. I think the two things we're doing today are really not working well, and there's a good chance they're gonna work better. The first question is those very difficult to understand by patients pilgrimages after the so-called. confirmation of the order, e.g. for glasses, diapers or other medical devices, confirming the fact that they are entitled to receive them. These pilgrimages will just end. This is possible thanks to computerization, it is possible thanks to this regulation. As a matter of fact, I'm not getting into the details anymore. The doctor who will issue an order for such a medical device, with the help of the system will be... It's not even a doctor, it's the system that checks the patient's clearance. I think this will be the simplest solution possible and unambiguously beneficial. The second issue is hospital emergency services, where we are still dealing with a situation of high levels of patients, who often It's just a short story. They shouldn't be there. They should go somewhere else. They should treat themselves with their primary health care doctor or, if the situation is more pressing, but not sudden... I'm very different from those two words. If there is a sudden state of health threat, understood as understood by the laws, i.e. a state requiring immediate help to save health and life, then the patient's place is in the SOR. But unfortunately, in most cases, these patients should be taken either by a primary healthcare professional or by night and Christmas medical assistance. And in fact, that's what the laws are all about. On the one hand, it is about funding, the possibility of funding hospital emergency services, and on the other, improving the work of, among other things, a more perfect system of evaluation of patients, where they should be treated and in what way, whether they should be treated quickly or can wait. It seems that these two changes clearly eliminate the barriers that we are dealing with. It is good that such rules appear that they can be implemented. And it is possible, once again, because of the widely developed programme of computerization of the health system. Congratulations to the Minister and the Ministry of Health. At the same time, I hope that we will adopt this law unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1177, and the committee's report In print No 1177 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate, on 21 May, at the Senate Health Committee meeting, we discussed the law on the amendment of the Patient Rights Act and the Ombudsperson of Patient Rights. This law prohibits the charging of hospital or other hospital charges for fixed and 24-hour health benefits from parents or carers staying there with a child or a disabled person to a large extent. This regulation meets, I think, the expectations of the parents, because we all know how beneficial it is for the treatment of the child to be in hospital with the child of his parents and his carers. It relieves stress, strengthens your sense of security. In the child, but also, I think, in the parents'. Therefore, this law is now eliminating the possibility for the hospital to charge such fees. The costs associated with the stay of the parent in the hospital together with the child will now be covered by the National Health Fund after the hospital has submitted to the given NFZ of the voivodship. And the second aspect of this law is art. 2, under which the director of the competent branch of the Regional National Health Fund, with the consent of the provider, may extend It is, of course, an outpatient, specialised care period until 30 June 2021. Why do you want to annex these contracts... Most of these contracts are in place until this time period. Those to whom these agreements end may, on their application, extend those agreements. And that's the whole contents of this bill. The Health Committee requests that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place lasting no more than a minute. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? Senator Tomasz Grodzki. Minister, come in. Minister Maciej Miłkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u20	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have a question. Just about one record. There's an inaccuracies in the Seym and Senate documents, because in the document we received, we have... Is there a record that in the article. The following paragraph shall be added to point 35 (b). The following subparagraph shall be added: 1 shall not apply to the supplementary care provided for in the article on parental care, excluding meals, bed linen and extra beds? Does that mean... I'd like to make that clear. Does this mean that parents have in theory a stay free of charge, but for meals, bed linens and beds they have to pay for? I'd like to make that very clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u21	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u22	Yes, the original conclusion was: excluding meals, bed linens and beds. During the work of the Sub-Committee on Health, all the participating parties stated that the best solution would be a clear declaration that parents of children and persons with disabilities should not bear any remuneration. In this respect, the discussion went on and financial resources were secured because this cannot be passed on to medicinal entities, as these are real costs. With the National Health Fund, we agreed that in the next revision of the financial plan, it would secure the financial means for parents to use this option. From July 1st, as the bill will be signed, such an additional accompanying benefit, in a similar system as the possibility of a nursing mother with a child... This possibility will be taken over by the NFZ as of 1 July to finance the stay of parents or persons with significant disabilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u23	Thank you very much. Are they... [[I'd like to ask.]] Please, Senator, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u24	Thank you very much. I understand that this is actually fulfilling the expectations of parents and the perfect step, because this record that it is free, but we pay, it was a little curiosity. However, it is important that this is not passed on to individuals who, as we know, face various difficulties. I take it from July 1st without delay the NFZ will refund it, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u25	Yes. Yesterday, the National Health Fund presented a draft of changes, revaluation of tariffs for most benefits. This is not yet presented in more detail because the law has not been introduced, but the proposal in this regard will be presented immediately, so that from 1 July all the changes, including this change, have already taken place, i.e. that from 1 July the full funding of this law will be made.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u26	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'm going to ask Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wouldn't want this bill that doesn't wake up, as you can see, to go unnoticed, and that's why I asked for the floor. This is the second act, short, just as I say, without a lot of doubts. It has a clear positive impact on the implementation of patient rights in the Polish healthcare system. It's a long-awaited solution to this problem, what with parents taking care of a sick child in a hospital, whether they have the right to be there, whether someone has to give special permission to do so and who could possibly cover the costs. The problem is clearly resolved so that, what is obvious, not only, as Mr Kraska said, support the treatment process... Because there is really great evidence that the child who is being cared for by the nearest people in the hospital is getting better, and this therapeutic process is better. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think that even if it weren't, it's quite obvious that there's a right for a child to have a mother or a dad near him, and we're cutting through any doubts about it. I think it is necessary to congratulate the Ministry of Health on this solution, because it ends with the worse one, so that I say, a situation in which something like this has so far been possible in some hospitals and not in others. Now all the children whose parents want to take care of them in the hospital will have the opportunity to contact those closest to them. And that's the first thing. The second issue, which may be more relevant to the functioning of the system, so to speak, from the kitchen, i.e. from the contract side, it is a very important change regarding the possibility of the possibility, I stress, that is the possibility, not the automaton of the annexation of contracts in outpatient specialized care. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been situations in the past where such a total reopening of competitions in this area led to huge disturbances, to the fact that in competitions there were winners who, well, certainly did not meet the expectations of patients. And we want to avoid that risk. It is a very reasonable solution that it is the director of the voivodship department of the National Health Fund that needs to assess the situation. If in its territory signed and functioning agreements with outpatient care facilities sufficiently secure the needs of patients, then such a big one that, so to speak, there will be no competition. But at the same time, I would like to point out that this does not preclude the possibility of issuing supplementary competitions. So in all those areas where there is a shortage, and there are opportunities in the form of an offer of existing non-system providers who would like to enter the system, such supplementary competitions will be organised. And because of the specific, you can say, the point needs will be concluded with new agreements. I strongly appreciate this solution and I think it is proof of such, well, I would say, responsibility from the Ministry of Health, which offers us such a solution. Because, it seems, on the one hand, it stabilizes the system, and on the other, it allows it to develop where it needs to be. And where there is no need to do so, it simply limits the possibility of some kind of chaos and a situation that could jeopardise the continuity of treatment of patients under the care of specialist doctors. So that the law deserves not only to be supported, but also to note that both solutions proposed here clearly promote the exercise of patients' rights to better care in the Polish healthcare system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u28	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! This law, of course, improves the situation with regard to patient rights, especially with regard to this small patient. Although the problem is, of course, broad, because the loved ones who want to accompany the sick, which is expected by hospitals, by rehabilitation centres This does not apply to children They have very different conditions in different institutions. Unfortunately, sometimes these conditions do not exist and the quality of care, which the hospital is unable to fully provide, is getting worse by doing so. We would all benefit from this if we could ensure that family members are as close to their patients as possible, even if it were to be paid for something. But not at completely commercial prices. However, I would like to take this subject further into account, which was encouraged or referred to by Senator Radziwiłł. Because our constituents wouldn't forgive us if we didn't take this opportunity today. And every opportunity to remind you of the huge problems that health care is facing. In my district, all hospitals are starting to sink in debt. It's the debt rising. At the same time, residents who have negotiated an agreement with the government to be adequate in terms of funding feel deceived by the mechanism that has been applied and which has allowed to reduce subsidies to the NFZ due to good influence. Nevertheless, these influences are far from fulfilling all expectations. You mentioned Senator Radziwiłł a little bit about the S.O.R. queues. Unfortunately, they show the government's long-term helplessness in this matter. There are Dantesque scenes. Those are stories. Not from this land. In my district, a man died, whose blood was dripping from his leg for an hour at the E.R. And there he lived to see the end of his days, not help. This is an absolutely outrageous situation. You have to scream it's untolerable! The oncology situation. If there are places in Poland where all the oncologists in the oncologists report, then I think we should sound the alarm, and I think we should hear the bell, also here in the Senate, and not be satisfied with the fact that some small fragment... It's a good thing he's fixed, we can only applaud. It's a big deal. I would like to stress: big cases They need urgent intervention. The same is true in matters that are very important for seniors. It's very difficult to use rehabilitation. Long-term care is becoming more and more difficult to access and reduce when it comes to the scope of intervention. And geriatrics. Her condition is still one of the worst in Europe. It's been four more years, the years of the next government. This one promised in this respect... I don't even know if he remembers it. He promised to put an end to the NFZ and set things up completely differently. I would like to say that he has promised a lot, many different things in different areas, e.g. long-term care insurance. Unfortunately, we didn't see that coming. It's important to remember that today, even though this term of office is coming to an end. All who will build a vision in this area for the future must stand firm and not be content with what is, because health needs a profound change. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u30	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I thought we were going to be discussing a bill that is ahead of us, but I can't ignore the situation when Senator Augustine poured out all his grievances about the health system, in addition to the areas where the government and the parliamentary majority are undertaking extremely intensive work. E.g. The bill we're debating today is proof of that. As far as the SOR is concerned, of course, the problem of queues in the SOR is to a certain extent, one can say, significant for the times in which we live, and concerns many countries, not only Poland. As I said before, it is largely due to the fact that many patients report to a place where they should not be. The contested law regulates the matter by introducing unified mandatory methods for assessing the patient's condition, not only for initial evaluation but also for periodic evaluation, when the patient is sitting there. As a doctor, as a member of the medical community with some embarrassment and regret, I am saying that it is not so that all matters can be dealt with by law to the very end. [[Okay.]] Forgive me, but if it is that in the hospital emergency department, even in the queue, a man dies from bleeding, if that was the case, I would stress... [[That's what happened.]] ...it's definitely... Ladies and gentlemen, if something like this has happened, I understand that all the services are involved in explaining the situation, who was guilty and how it happened. But if it was, it's not a systemic problem, it's just a problem for people who didn't take care of a man with the type of bleeding that led to a life-threatening situation or even death. I'm afraid you can't. And I'm saying it as a doctor. To absolve all those who, even under difficult circumstances, would allow such a situation to fail to supply the bleeding wound. This is totally unacceptable. And it has nothing to do with the system. Even if there were actually crowds there. You just can't explain it. As far as oncology is concerned, Senator, for God's sake, no further. how we adopted the National Oncology Strategy Act here in this House a few days ago, and you're talking about some pieces that are being repaired... We are talking about strategy, about the fact that in the next few months, because in November, the government is going to present the National Oncology Strategy, and you are talking about fixing some fragments. Well, that's just... I mean, if oncology is a fragment, okay... But this is a very big part, extremely important, and it seems that thanks to this strategy we are really moving on a new path, that is to say, we are trying to sort things out, so to speak, completely. But just so it's not that it's some document that you don't know when it's going to be done, I'm going to say, please pay attention to where we are right now. Now we are in the pilot phase of the solution, which is the National Oncology Network, and this solution in several voivodships is already implemented and functioning. In fact, everything indicates that it will be a solution, which is not only in the form of so-called. Pilotage... But this piloting is not theoretical piloting, it's specific patients, specific doctors, specific facilities that are involved, and it works in full steam, during the operation of the whole system. Everything indicates that oncology in Poland will either enter or have already entered the path of improvement. I have no doubt about that, also from the point of view of the possibility. Recently we have financed a huge number of different types of machines and devices that are necessary for treatment, e.g. practically covered Poland with a network of radiotherapy accelerators, registered in the last 3 years dozens of oncology medicines, etc., etc. Of course, the needs are still enormous, and there is no doubt about that. But to say that things are set aside is simply unfair to the government. As far as geriatrics are concerned, as far as I know. Please, Minister, correct me if you don't. No geriatric branch has recently disappeared from the map of Poland and geriatrics have been fully incorporated in this area, for example. In sub-options or in departments in different hospitals, internships. And there's no problem here. Those who require geriatric care, or rather, I would say, geriatric consultation, have it in the internship, and there should be no doubt about that either. And finally, something where, from the patient's point of view, the state is the most acute and where it's already happening... We're talking about a problem with access. And this access has been greatly improved recently. Cataract, orthopedic surgery, CT, magnetic resonance imaging This is the list of the most sensitive benefits, you can say, where the queues were the longest, and at the moment they are shrinking, well, virtually to value... to periods that are negligible... [[Talking in the O.R.]] So access to these benefits starts to be almost at hand. Well, that's what it looks like. Don't shake your head. That's the data. So, really... [[Voice in the O.R.: I'll give you the addresses for these patients.]] Don't tell me there's nothing going on in health care. And as you say about residents who are disappointed, I point out that their earnings are now shaped, depending on the specialty and the moment at which they start their work, from 4,000, as a rule plus 600, for the so-called. It's a patriotic bonus to 5,000 900... well, it's finally the first job of those people who graduated from college. I think it's really some kind of indecency to other college graduates, other schools to say there's a problem here... And when it comes to spending on health care in general, it's called. Act 6% works, and it works the way it was planned from the beginning. As far as I remember, when we accepted it, at the end of 2017.... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, five minutes.]] [[That's the second statement.]] As I recall, you also voted for her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u32	Thank you very much, Senator. And I'll ask Senator Waldemar Kraska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u33	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The bill was simple. It seems to me that we all understood it, but we are the upper chamber of parliament and in substance, as always, politics is entering. I know we're in a permanent election period after one election and before the next election. But I wish that we could talk about health care, about the health of Poles in a little bit of a tone and without those, I think, unnecessary emotions, over party divisions. Maybe it's utopia, maybe it's my dream, but sometimes dreams come true. And I think that above all, we, and especially the Senate Health Commission, where mostly there are doctors, patients and the good of Polish health services, are probably equally at heart, whether you are from Law and Justice or you are from the Civic Platform. So I don't think this is a good time, Mr. Senator Augustine, to be moving around with arguments like what you did and what you didn't do... Because we can address some reservations to you in the same way. But I don't think it's the right way. I think that if we talk about health care, about the health of Poles, we should find a common denominator, because the term ends and the health of citizens is always the most important. So I think that this common line and the common thinking about the health of Poles should lead not only to the Law and Justice, but also to opposition parties. Therefore, Mr. Senator, I invite you to many conferences we hold in the Senate. There is a time and time for reflection, to build new ideas for Polish health care. And I would very much like to invite you to another conference, which will be held on June 3rd in the Senate. Many ideas are being implemented. The Ministry is always present on such occasions. I think that together, Mr. Senator, we can do a lot for Polish health care. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u34	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Kraska was very right to say that as far as these 2 laws are concerned, the law that we have just discussed, and the law that we are discussing, we really all agree that these are good laws. And you have expressed the senator's slight pretension that the opposition puts it more broadly, generally, and makes it a political debate. I answer, Senator, why? I remember, at the beginning of our term, Senator Radziwiłł came out to this pulpit, then as Minister of Health, and made a public declaration that he was doing such a great revolution that the queues would end because it was so fantastic that there would be no queues since January. [[Did I say that?]] Yes, you have made such a declaration, Senator, here in this House. In this House, you have submitted. I understand there was a reason the senator is sitting here with us now, not running the ministry. Well, because you didn't fulfill those... [[Interesting.]] It's a delicate malice. You're right, Mr. Senator. [[That's meanness.]] And going back to my malice, I want to say why we're talking so much about it. Here you go, information: June 1 will be in Warsaw I'm sure the senator knows that. A demonstration under the motto. Enough dying in queues to treat. And, Senator, that's what we're here for. For this. And as a higher chamber, we can say more than just applaud for the joy that one law or another is good, and if there is this subject, it is worth reminding that it is not so... I am not so much told by Senator Kraska as by Senator Radziwiłłł... He came here, to this speaker and instead of saying that this is a good bill etc., he unfortunately made about 2, 3 sentences about the fact that it is fantastic at all and that this is one example of how good it is in our health care for 4 years. So I repeat: it is not good, your reform has not settled anything, your declarations made here have not led to the fact that it is better for the citizens. And when you speak from the pulpit as former health minister, if this information that someone died at the S.R. is true, and this information is everywhere. It's either you're trying to relativize or you're not interested in the plot you were running. Because I'm declaring that this is real information, and it's pretty serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u36	Thank you, Senator. Now I would like to be in the discussion very briefly. I think in the last year or two these lines in the S.R.S. have increased. In my opinion, this indicates, above all, the poor night care that was supposed to provide, and provides insufficient, open treatment. If people go to the hospital because they don't know where to go with small things, it means that the night care provided by open medicine is bad, and in some places it may not work at all. And that's the first line. Previously, the main problem associated with these queues was the unwillingness of first contact doctors to direct patients to specialist studies. That, I guess, has changed. I don't know if I'm right, but I know for a fact that if we don't improve the functioning of this evening, night care in clinics, if it's as it is today, these queues of people with some minor problems blocking those who come to the S.R. with serious problems will continue. Now, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the law, which did not raise controversy, we had a discussion about the state of health care in Poland. I subscribe to what the chairman of the Health Committee has said, i.e. that we should always have this discussion regardless of political colours. Minister Radziwiłł, let me make this brief. I think we live in different realities. I don't deny that the expense is increasing, that we're doing it... It's not like we voted against any or... I don't know... [[Ho, ho, ho...]] All right, let's make it a ho, ho, ho. We didn't vote in favour, okay. [[Joy in the Chamber]] All right, ho, ho. We didn't vote in favour. However, in general, there is no harsh criticism here on our part, and I think that we are even mildly expressing it when it comes to health protection, in response to what Mr President said, namely that we should be genuinely talking about the state of health protection in Poland today. Not that we're putting these billions away, and young doctors are already making money... And that we're even surprised that there are problems. No, Minister, that's not how we're supposed to talk. To confirm this. Not getting into the details, because I hope... Well, we put Professor together. We are promised to hold a debate at the committee meeting first, and I hope that we will draw some conclusions from this, and we will hold a debate in the Polish Parliament, in the Senate. We're gonna have a debate, considering all the things that are good... We'll show you: it's improved here, and it's worse here. Minister, to confirm that we are living in other realities, I have chosen a CBOS survey. Well, anything to say, the CBOS is in favor of Law and Justice, even in research. In this particular case, I would say objective, but also better listings in CBOS in a field such as health care has Law and Justice. It's just a piece, I'm not gonna read the whole thing, but I'm gonna read it. Minister, you're the one I'm looking for: 66%. the respondents are negatively assessing the functioning of health services according to CBOS. If you want this opinion from your patients I'm talking as a patient now. I say, no, let's talk about it. If anything... I won't read it, because the Minister knows exactly that, and most of us have access to the Internet. If you look at the length of queues and is now showing this special application for voivodships After all, it can be seen that about 10 years are waiting for certain things. [[Current data...]] Display He's eating? I'll display them at break. These are current data, the NFZ has launched such an application, very cool anyway. So when we put it on the line... Well, generally speaking, the length of the queues has increased. In some cases it has actually shortened, the Minister is right, and we should say, yes, these are good actions. But you have to look at it in a comprehensive way, you have to look at the whole thing. Let's not just look for what's good, because Poles generally think it's bad. And I want to say it wrong, that's my opinion. It did not happen because the state in my opinion does not do much about this subject, but also because it is the continuation of the Polish approach to health protection from 30 years. So let's not talk like this: it's okay because we did something here. Let's talk honestly, what's possible, let's do, let's improve. We're not able to change it in 1 year, 1 month, but let's talk honestly, point out those areas where there are the biggest problems. And let's hear it. You're always doing it, and I hope you're doing it too in terms of health care. Because the vast majority of Poles negatively assess what is happening in health care due to availability... with access to specialists I'm not quoting here any more, it's a tragedy at all, the worst is assessed access to specialists. The question is: can we do something about it, or will we pretend that nothing happened because we increased the effort and it's okay, Poles, nothing happened... It's happened, and it's happened a lot. Health care requires a thorough analysis, an answer to the question: what's next? Because it can't go on like this. I want to quote a classic, say It can say that, because it is also an element of political expression, although it may go too far. That Polish health care in the evaluation of patients is in a slight ruin, not to say that in total ruin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u38	Thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Please take the floor. [[For 12 years, Mr. Senator.]] [[According to the labs. I didn't say lately.]] [[But I said 12 o'clock.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that there would probably be no discussion and we would not have spoken if there was no need to respond to Senator Radziwiłł's speech. Mr. Senator, I'm afraid you've denied... You said he didn't owe the system, but he probably did. If there has been a death at all in the SOR It may be the patient's answer, or maybe the doctor's... [[I wasn't talking about the patient...]] You didn't talk about the patient, but... [[Don't gallop like that.]] You didn't talk about the patient, but you said the system wasn't responsible. And I recommend you, Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And once again, you're provoking. And I recommend you google yourself, search the Internet... If you put death in the SOR or the SOR situation, you'll be surprised. I'm amazed that the man who was the Minister of Health has no idea what's going on at the S.R.S. right now and what the situation is. These situations, of course, are culpable... Of course, they are caused by many, many causes, including. It's a system. But that's one of many reasons. There are also reasons that we know perfectly, problems unsolved so far, i.e. It's just that we're missing doctors. The situation at the SORs is tragic. Doctors must come from the wards, which makes the situation worse on the wards; doctors are poorly paid and simply travel abroad. There's just no doctors. That's all, this situation is calling for vengeance to heaven. And regardless of politics, ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, it's a terrible situation. And regardless of politics, we here, as senators, should consider how this situation could be improved. The case of residents has already been discussed here, but let me remind you: if we do not resolve the pay situation of doctors, such tragic cases in the SORs will occur many more times. I'll spare you the stories, but look it up, really write in Google the words "death cases" at the SORs. And the fact that the Minister of Health has no idea that there are such cases, I'm amazed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u40	Please take the floor of Mrs Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Young Guests! I just want to add something and make it up, because we don't need this discussion. Senator Kraska, chairman of the committee, has already summarized this. That's not the point. We are not talking at all about the bill that the Health Committee has been working on and which Mr President of the High Council has presented. Ladies and gentlemen, when we included governments in 2015, we knew the situation in health care. We knew we didn't have enough doctors. They haven't responded in eight years. And the fact that there will be not enough doctors, that doctors retire, reach retirement age, we as a medical community alarmed already in 2011, in 2010, 2011, when 2 medical chambers, the Lower Silesia Chamber and the Silesian Chamber, undertook the difficulty of analyzing doctors and examining all problems. And they were sent to the government statistics showing that in a few years, we're gonna miss doctors because they're retiring and that there's no increase in college recruitment. What did our government do in 2015? He decided to accept the principle that we accept more students. This was done by the government of law and justice. Already in 2016, there was the first recruitment of 1 thousand more students, in 2017 there were 1 thousand more students. And I'm already studying in this system... This year we will again receive 1 thousand more and study more than 2 thousand students. But they're only halfway through college, and then specialization... By the time the doctor graduates and specializes, it'll be 10, 11 years. So the results of our work must still be waited for. Perhaps someone else will eat apples from that apple tree we planted. But let's not say... Really don't imply that we're not doing anything, because the most important thing right now... And I'm also saying this as an experienced doctor, already retired, but working because there's no one to work for, and I'm working in an extremely rare specialty, and the entire clinic would cease to exist if I stopped working as a doctor. It takes some time for all of this, but it is our government that has been the first in our country for several years that this problem of lack of doctors has noticed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u42	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have to say, I hate ad personam arguments and I never use them. But in the case of Minister Radziwiłł's statement, the proverb is: speech is silver and silence is gold. I guess it was better to keep quiet. The enchantment of reality, the saying that everything is okay, is a typical appearance. And there is no doubt about that, both with regard to social research, the feelings of individual patients, and in tragic casuistic cases that occur in health care... Many times from this tribune I appealed that health care should be apolitical. And maybe it's so weird that with a fellow surgeon... The paramedics may be of a simpler mind, but they seem to have more decency in their genes. [[Well, that's really...]] The thing is, there's nothing to pretend like it's okay because it's not okay. And either we get to the hard work, we start to figure out how to get out of this spelled circle where... Well, maybe we should agree that we haven't been in it for four years, we haven't been in it for 12 years. The foundations of this system laid almost 30 years ago may not have been perfect, and later politicians reacted differently to the challenges of the surrounding reality. And it's either going to change this in the coming years, or it's going to end in a complete collapse, as it's happened in bigger countries than us, for example. in Brazil, as has happened in Greece As has happened everywhere where health expenditures are grossly low. Let me just remind you from the factography that, as far as education is concerned, the judiciary is somewhere in the middle of this list of countries of the European Union, in the case of health care, we are still in third place from the end. This is an unacceptable situation. This good bill, which we will support like most health laws in this House... Let me remind you that it originally contained such a curiosity record that everything is free of charge, only you have to pay for bed linen, bed and meals. Well, what do you pay for in a hotel? Behind the bed and for reinforcements. So it was a fraud. Fortunately, this time. And there is great merit in this, even if Prof. Chybicki's mind is restored to someone's mind and the record is true: if it is free, it will be free of charge, not in small print, with an asterisk that you have to pay for something. That is why this law should be supported. But saying that this little step solves all the problems of Polish health care, that is, to put it mildly, naivety. We should appeal to all political forces for hard work if we want to avoid a really serious collapse and threat of health and life of Poles in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u44	Thank you. Senator Richard Majer. [[Ad vocem, ad vocem...]] Do you fit in, too? There you go. [[Ad vocem the senator wants.]] But there's no ad vocem. You still have five minutes, Senator. Should we put you in? Yes. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Discussion about health care, the health system and arguments put forward by the senators, my predecessors At many moments very right, very true, very accurate They were provoked by what Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł said. Mr. Minister, ad personam, I am directing these words to you. Thank you very much for your years of work in the rule of law and justice. I also thank the successor, Minister Szumowski, for continuing Minister Radziwiłł's thought. What happened in the last three and a half years was impossible for the past years, unreal. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes in health care are noticeable... Of course, they won't satisfy everyone, it's not like that. No minister has a magic wand he can use and suddenly say it's okay. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the process and this process of change is progressing. It is not that something happens immediately, especially in health care, which is, Dear Sire, determined by many factors, especially by demography. The fact that we're getting old is no secret to anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish society is getting old, but we want to take care of the high quality of this aging process. There will be more and more people coming to the health system, i.e. health expenditure will have to increase in proportion to the ageing of the population. It costs us and we see it, year by year, gradually raising funds to the health system. Demographics are one thing. The second is the very shape of this system. Ladies and gentlemen, sealing the financial system, controlling the funds that go to hospitals is a very important process. The valuation of the services contracted from the National Health Fund, the establishment of a network of hospitals... something that the dead spoke of. Minister for Religa In order to guarantee the most important benefits on the territory of the counties It's been unreal for years. That's what the government did. We have built a network of hospitals that creates a very important security hack for all the people of our country. These are successes. I will not mention, my dear fellow Members, free benefits for seniors, 75+ medicines. It seemed impossible too, but we managed to get free drugs for the oldest people who needed it. A lot of impossible things have been done. Senator Zdrojewska was talking about the SORs. Yes, the SORs are actually problematic, but, ladies and gentlemen, in the SORs as in the lens, the whole issue is concentrated. And the needs of patients, and the absence of doctors that really aren't there because they're going abroad, where the stakes are higher. Security of funds, system integrity, and above all patient safety are and will be our goal. Minister, thank you so much for what you've done. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u46	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u47	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, before I speak about what provoked me to the second speech, I would like to explain something so that we all know what we are talking about, repeating here: SOR, SOR. S.O.R. is a hospital emergency unit, a branch such as other hospital departments, e.g. surgical, internal, oncology or haematological. It could happen on this ward, too. ♪ And it happens ♪ That people are dying. If someone has failed to fulfil their duties or if there has been an error in the medical arts, then the proper services, including the prosecutor, have been involved since the examination. Every such dramatic case must be Well, from what I can tell, that's the way it is. It's been analyzed. But... Professor, Mr. Senator, well, I'm not a doctor entitled and in front of all academic teachers. You belong to them, you are such; not directly to me, but to other doctors' colleagues. I'm really leaning on my forehead. And I would never dare discuss with you about matters of strict medical sense, respecting your academic title, but here in the Senate, we're all senators and in some way. We're equals. Well, really, it's incredibly wicked what you said, dividing doctors into surgeons and non-healers, saying that the procedurers have a decency gene, and we don't have it. Please develop tests for the decency gene, then we will examine ourselves, as we examine other genes predisposing to various diseases, and then... You mustn't throw words like that in the wind, Professor, Senator. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u48	Senator Waldemar Kraska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u49	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Well, we're completely off the subject of those laws we've been working on, but I think every discussion about health care is important. I'll refer to the words of the marshal. Indeed, the topic of the SOR is a very media topic, because the SOR meets people who need very quick and sudden help, but also people who can be served by primary healthcare doctors. Therefore, not this, but the previous law on which we have dealt with it simplifies this way, systematizes the patient and will cause the patient who is going to be in a life-threatening state to be assisted first, because medical segregation will be introduced. Maybe it's an ugly word, but it's gonna be about the most difficult cases, and it's gonna need quick help, which means it's gonna get red. The patient who needs to be handled quickly will be given a yellow colour. And then there's another two groups of patients, green and blue. The waiting time for such a patient to help the SOR will be much longer, as patients who are at risk of health and life will have priority. So I think that's gonna make the patients think, too, that maybe it's worth taking a different path instead of going to the hospital rescue unit. As the name suggests, rescue, i.e. providing benefits in a state of sudden threat to life and health And with a common cold or flu, go to a primary health care doctor or night and Christmas medical care, which, of course, works every day from 6 p.m. Access to a specialist... Because we are always talking about the fact that access to a specialist in Poland is not enough, but this, too, I think, is the problem with the fact that many visits that have been to doctors of specialists In fact, Poles are very fond of treating doctors. It could happen in primary health care doctors, because these doctors have knowledge and competence... Many times another visit to a specialist's doctor is limited to prescribing medicines that you have already received, and this can definitely be done with a primary healthcare doctor. Of course, lack of HR, if we are talking about doctors, hurts in Poland, but, as Senator Czudowska said to me, it unfortunately lasts for years. Well, we've led to almost twice as many students at medical universities right now, but it's gonna take time. Medical studies last 6 years, specialization approx. 5, so it's only after 11 years that a specialist doctor is born. I think this is also an important and good reason for the fact that over the four years of the rule of law and justice, we have achieved that more and more doctors are studying. It's also good for the lower staff, which is nurses. This is the first year when practically all the pledges in this direction have taken away the right to pursue their profession. And it happened that after finishing that direction, the nurse Not less than 30% nurses They did not take away the right to pursue their profession, i.e. at that time they assumed that they would not start their career in the profession. At the moment, we see that the interest in this profession, the nurse's profession, is far greater. Therefore, I think that unnecessary emotions accompany these two laws, which actually are good and introduce good solutions to the Polish health system. But, as always... as a doctor And I'm a surgeon too. I don't feel like I have this special gene... it depends not on the profession, but on the man. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u50	Senator Tomasz Grodzki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to explain one thing. I used the words "ma" a more educated gene, i.e. Everyone's decent... Surgeons think a little bit of different categories, and they're certainly more decision-making than doctors of many other specialties. It wasn't directed at anyone in any way as something offensive, but if that's the way it was perceived, then I'm willing to apologize for it. And speaking of my esteemed previous speaker, Senator Majer... As you know, in the Health Committee, we're trying to separate seeds from chaff and we're looking for good things, we're looking for bad things. But the overload of the S.O.R. I don't want to use the word 'hekatomba'. I can't thank the health department because it was a systemic error that caused dozens of people to suffer. I'm in the hospital every day. Tonight, at 3:00 a.m., we were transplanting a lung. I was on my way out to catch the plane, and the S.R. was already waiting for the crowds. And after 6:00 p.m., when access to outpatient care is practically near zero, because it's in practice, there are crowds, including older ladies, who ask for a prescription. There's no pediatrics here, so I'm not gonna say anything about it. In this case, people who really, as Senator Kraska said, could benefit from care elsewhere, but in the SOR it is easy to do this, even if you have to do these 9 hours, it is the easiest care available in the afternoon. And we have to change that, because even if the intentions of the legislator were different, the practice shows that the SORs are dramatically overloaded, and there is nothing to deny it. Therefore, I repeat, we have hard work to do, and this is not work in the plenary room, but in committees, as I asked with Senator Czarnobaj, only in expert bodies, so as to make health care better than party divisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u52	Thank you. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, the Act on the Organisation and Functioning of Pension Funds and the Act The text of the Act is contained in print No 1181, and the report of the Commission In print No 1181 A. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy a report on yesterday's deliberations of both committees on the Act amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, the Act on the Organisation and Functioning of Pension Funds and the Law on Banking Law. The aim of the Act amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans adopted by the Sejm is to introduce changes that will ensure the implementation of the Employee Capital Plans. As is apparent from the justification for the draft law, the law in its current wording creates a number of negative consequences and complications in the implementation of the system for both employers and employees and the institution responsible for implementing the system of employee capital plans. Especially difficult to apply are provisions on the limit which the Act sets for contributions to employee capital plans, i.e. a limit of up to 30 times the average remuneration. A set limit gives rise to great problems also on the part of employees and employers, but above all it makes it difficult for the PFR to apply the system of registration of participants and to settle payments. The basis for the payment to the PPK is to be the remuneration understood as the basis for the assessment of the pension and pension contributions of the PPK participant without applying the limitation resulting from the Social Insurance Act, that the annual basis for the assessment of pension and pension contributions in a given calendar year cannot be higher than the amount corresponding to 30 times the forecast average monthly remuneration in the national economy for a given calendar year as defined in the Budget Act, the Budget Provision Act and in their projects if the relevant laws have not been adopted. The Act also extends the catalogue of persons employed within the meaning of the Act on PPK to persons on parental leave or receiving maternity allowance or maternity allowance and allows the use of a mechanical signature to call on the employer to conclude an agreement for the Order of PPK or to provide information to the PFR on the conclusion of a contract for the Order of PPK, as well as information to participants by providing them with access to the IT system of the financial institution. The Act introduces a maximum limit of payments and payments for all PPK participant accounts up to $50,000 in US dollars at the NBP average rate. The Act introduces an additional condition for PPK managers to collect remuneration for the result achieved in the form of the need for an investment fund, pension fund or sub-fund to reach a return rate of not less than 75% the highest repayment rates under the funds of the same defined date, but these provisions shall not apply until the end of the calendar year in which the period of 2 years from the date of the establishment of the investment fund, pension fund or sub-fund expires. The Act is to enter into force 14 days from the date of the announcement. During the committee meeting, the current Minister called for the bill to be adopted without amendment because the law is to enter into force on 1 July this year. and the implementation of amendments would make it more difficult to prepare the entry into force of this law. The Legislative Office has proposed two amendments. One of these proposals was agreed by the Minister, but he appealed that, given the fact that it was not very important, he should vote in favour of the law without amendments. The amendment proposed by the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises was also discussed, with which the current Minister fully agreed. However, he proposed that these changes, which are proposed by the Ombudsman of small and medium-sized enterprises, should soon be included in another law, which ends its course in the Sejm. A majority of committee members voted in favour of the bill, without amendment, and three senators opposed it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u54	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see... Oh, you're Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go, Senator Szymanski. Let's go to the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u55	Mr. Chairman... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] Can you hear it? Mr President, quite recently the government was in favour of keeping this limit to 30 times, as in the pension system. You were very general about the fact that it's causing complications. But what really is the justification for changing this principle?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u56	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it's best... Since the discussion on this subject was extremely brief, I think it is best for the Minister to answer this question in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u58	Thank you. No further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Marek Nieżak like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: I think in the face of...]] There will be questions, yes. Then please, Minister, please come to the podium. Do you want the Minister to repeat the question, or... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: No, there is no need.]] Good. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear Young Guests! Let me simply answer this question, without referring to the law or other issues. I'm aware that this 30-fold password might electrify a little bit, just like it was in the Seym. But I would stress that apart from the fact that we're talking about a certain limit here, it's quite different than the limit in the ZUS. Please note that the PPK are based on voluntary, this is the opt-out model, i.e. the model from which you need to appear, and any employee can always decide to withdraw from it. In other words, it is a voluntary system, it can be withdrawn. Why are we changing it here? In preparation for the launch of the PPK system, which starts on 1 July, some technical problems have come to light, some shortcomings of this law, which has already been passed. That's why it's an amendment. From a technical point of view, the application of this limit will entail both costs for employers who will be obliged to offer PPK to their employees as well as for PFR itself. And that's basically the reason. There are costs related to handling this system, handling transfers, making transfers to relevant accounts and subaccounts later. That's the root cause. If you'd let me, sir, in the materials... The question arises as to the cost involved. Right? Such a question often arises. Mr. Senator didn't ask him, but I'm assuming he's lying there somewhere at the root of that question, whether it involves some very high extra cost. Of course, I'm going to give an estimate here, because, as I said, the system is voluntary, it's based on a certain declaration, and we don't know how many employees are going to make such a declaration yet. Assuming that half of the employees will pay them, i.e. that half will choose to use the PPK, which will be offered to them, and half will not, at the total cost of remuneration for 2018, and this is PLN 608 billion, we are talking here about the amount of PLN 200 million per year. So we're talking about cost, on the side of employers who share in the costs of PPK, just like you, and like an employee... Well, that's 0.03%. The entire payroll fund. So that this is not a change that significantly increases the costs of PPK on the part of employers. From the employee's side, as I said, it's always voluntary.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u60	Thank you, Minister. Senator Kleina is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Yesterday at the committee meeting you were a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: Ah, yes.]] I, under the influence of the information prepared by your Ombudsman, have tabled an amendment. Unfortunately, she did not receive support, although everyone thought it was right and purposeful. I would like the Minister to say once again whether there would be a chance to support this amendment. Well, as I say, everyone agreed, including the Minister, that the amendment was justified. I am saying this because a few months ago we passed a law on the conversion of the right of perpetual use into property rights and then we discussed it for a long time, also on this amended law. I tabled an amendment, which was also prepared by the Legislative Bureau. And only because... everyone supported her. Even at the committee meeting, she was supported. Well, in the end, the High House rejected this amendment. And after 2 months, the minister himself came with a new law, connected only with this amendment. The whole procedure related to the adoption of the law was launched, dozens of employees, officials, advisers, legislators, etc. were involved. And that is why I have a question: wouldn't it be worth supporting this amendment if everyone believes that it is good and right? And let the other Senators of Law and Justice sign this amendment so that it doesn't feel like it was just one Klein or Blackbay who reported it. Because it's just that it's good. It's true, isn't it? And we all want that to happen. Could you try doing it like that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u62	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u63	Yes. I'll answer that. Here. Maybe I won't get into the details anymore. It is a matter which is important, but from the point of view of this law... This concerns a matter covered by the transitional provisions, i.e. one, one can say, but a little incidental. Well, we have here the date of entry into force or the beginning of offering PPK, July 1st. And we also have the time required by the Constitution, which belongs to the President of the Republic of Poland to sign or possibly refer the law to the Court. And that's the reason I've been asking. 'Cause it wasn't my decision, but I cordially asked It is important that this amendment be addressed to another project. Here, actually... Because, in substance, we all agreed at the committee's meeting, and you were also presenting your position... So it's as if there's no dispute in substance. Well, that's a certain consideration, I'd say, calendar. But I would also like to say that it is not that in order to make this amendment, a whole new legislative process will have to be launched or, I don't know, forcefully come up with a project. Because at the next Parliament meeting there will be a draft law on the system of development institutions, which directly concerns PFR. And he's heavily involved in PPK, too. Thus, such an amendment will also relate to the scope of the project. And the project will go We already know that. Hurry up. So, really, I think that would be a compromise that would take into account these calendar realities on the one hand, and on the other hand... Really, I have made this declaration many times and I also make it here: this amendment will gain the support of the government. [[Thank you...]] [[So you're saying you don't want to make any adjustments?]] I'd have a heartfelt request.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u64	Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the very idea of this bill. This is a cleaning bill. Like you said, we're getting out of this 30-fold limit because of this limit because it's easier to apply this law. So one limit has been cut. But there's a second limit, which is a $50,000 limit. The question is: why is this law being introduced? Didn't we know that before and introduce it? What forced the introduction of this limit? And what is the material reason, i.e. Why do we have to introduce this limit? 'Cause we're going down from one limit, but we're going in another. So we complicate things.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u66	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u67	Thank you. Dear Senator, apart from the fact that the word "limit" is here... It's something else, it's an annual deposit limit to PPK, which means it's... You can't pay more than $50,000 a year. So this is quite different than that limit, even though the word "limit" may imply certain associations. The reason is simple. That's what I was talking about at the committee meeting very clearly. Answering in one word: so-called. FATCA. It is an international agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America. This is a kind of agreement, the background of which is, most generally, an international agreement, but it is well known that it is also largely introduced at the initiative of the United States. The obligation to prosecute money laundering, tax avoidance. If we hadn't introduced such a limit and this deposit limit was higher... Incidentally, in the case of Polish earnings we are talking more about theoretical rather than practical situations. But if, in theory, there was such an opportunity as in the rules that are currently in force, it is automatically as if we are part of the FATCA agreement and are part of the exchange of information with the United States Government, because that is how this system works. The United States, by concluding such agreements with other countries that cooperate with them, collect this information and analyse it later in terms of money laundering, tax avoidance. It's just that we don't get into this deal. The point is not to enter into the FATCA agreement after the maximum deposit limit has been introduced. It also simplifies the system from the point of view of regulatory burdens on PPK providers. And that's the reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u68	There you go, Mr. Senator. [[If you don't mind my asking, Mr. Marshal...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u69	It's obvious, except I have a question: why wasn't this introduced into the mother's bill? And second question. Is there even a real procedure for refunding the money paid over the limit set here? Of course, it's unlikely that someone would exceed that amount, but theoretically it's possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u70	I'll answer the second question first and then the first. Second question. Please note that PPK is based on civil law agreements. This is somebody's property. At each stage it is the property of those employees who add to it, so here there is no question about the possibility of return. It's theirs all the time, that money's theirs all the time. And they, i.e. employees participating in the PPK or those offered by the PPK, and they will remain in it or choose, will be able to... So there's no risk here. On the other hand, the first question I must honestly answer is that this is a cleaning bill. I'm fighting in my chest here. It would probably be good if I had some of my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, because I could also sort of hit their breasts, but I'm on my own. The cleaning bill comes from the fact that it was not possible to predict everything at the time of the first law. I don't think there's any point in hiding it here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u71	Thank you, Minister. I don't see any more requests for questions... Oh, and Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, there are more limits there, I think there's another 1 million in the case of income that can't be exceeded. But I am interested in such a trend, which is also included in this PPK, to displace the PPE, quite good institution, which is not applied, unfortunately. And here comes another provision, which, however, imposes an obligation to run occupational pension schemes where PPE is. And I don't get it. They weren't supposed to be mutually exclusive forms, they were supposed to be complementary forms. Why are you so insistently promoting the PPK system?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u73	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u74	Here's what I'm gonna say. It's still... I don't agree with the assessment that there's some sort of EPP stuffing going on here. On the contrary, there is no need to offer PPK where PPE achieves a certain degree of participation. That's what I'm looking for from the paperwork, because I don't remember exactly the percentage of whether it's 2/3 or 70%. ...it's about some level of participation. So it's not like we're here, so to speak, in a regulatory manner, cutting out the PPE rules. But the real problem is this. And I noticed that the senator in his statement as if he had included it as well. The PPE did not prove to be a spectacular success. In this sense, the PPK is an attempt to offer an alternative, but this is not a disabling alternative, on the contrary, there are mechanisms here in the law that... As I say, there is no need to offer PPK if there is a well-functioning PPE; I am speaking now from the perspective of the employer. Only, of course, in practice. I'm aware of what the senator said. The PPE didn't work out very well. We're counting on the PPK to work. I think so. Everyone in this room seems to agree here. The problem is that we in Poland do not have a very sparing society. When you look at EU statistics, Poland is the second, third from the bottom when it comes to the tendency to save. This is generally for many different reasons, which, in order not to extend, maybe I won't talk anymore. It's not good. That's why it's a little bit of a system that's supposed to strengthen this desire to save money.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u75	Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u76	Minister, you are trying in this bill to avoid the situation in which the predecessors of OFE were earning, even though investors were losing, and there is this limit of 75% the rates of reimbursement to be paid by the managing bodies... Well, I don't want to read the whole recipe. I'm only interested in why it's only been two years.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u77	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u78	Mr. Senator, it's not like after two years. As I've already admitted here, this is a cleaning bill... [[No. From the calendar year in which the deadline expires 2 years from the date of creation.]] But on July 1st of this year we're even moving with the system, he hasn't moved yet. So it's not like he's been running for two years, and now we're setting a limit. This is the first case. And the other thing. I am very pleased that the senator has just noted this, because we estimate that the earnings, the remuneration of the PPK managers will be about 7 times lower than the remuneration of those who managed the OFE. So I think it's basically this. When you look at the system and not from the perspective of a particular player, because it is not a good solution for everyone, these players are probably not very happy about it. It's a good solution, and I'd rather expect a good word about it. But as I say, we're trying to make it on time before this system runs on July 1.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u79	Thank you. No further questions, Minister. Thank you, sir. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am also faced with a moral problem which caused the Minister's speech, in which he warmly asked, which he also stressed not to make any amendments. Why do I say that's a problem? After all, if something is moral, you have to support it. A few days ago, another minister, who, in an extraordinary mode contrary to the Constitution, was changing the laws, not only did he not ask, but still challenged those who wanted to do something good. Forgive me, therefore, but I will not sanction this entire moral code from this speaker, because the amendment that I want to make and which is also a specific part of the debate is important, among other things. because a year ago, when this law was the subject of the committee's work, I raised a matter of injustice. This injustice was that the plan for implementing this law provided for universality for all, but the public finance sphere was treated as a step-by-step, simply postponed the introduction of this programme for further years, as far as 2021 is concerned. It is clear that this was due to the fact that a budget grant would have to be increased, because some of the resources allocated to this for good morning and later to the employer's annual contribution have budgetary implications. It's quite an impact, because if we assume that this area of public finances employs 1 million people, there would be large budget expenditure. And that was a pretty understandable argument last year when the bill was built, but a few months ago, this argument was false. It turns out that there are a lot of measures of a different nature, let's not hide what, politically, and in a corner you threw what the Minister is talking about, which is the right one, and here I agree with you. The need to save, to build a saving institution in the market economy. You weren't interested anymore. But I am interested not only in this consequence, but also in these changes in parameters. The money came up, not too much, so you can... In addition, there was a social conflict with a very large extent, precisely with the sphere of public finances, which is based on two huge social groups or even professional groups, i.e. Officials, the budgetary sphere for which no money was found for the increase were only inflationary compensation And the teachers. Well, this form of support for these workers is not only an expression of the opposite of saving, but also some form of compensation for their too low wages. This is not new, it was used in Poland before the war, that the sphere, so to speak, was preferred with regard to certain benefits, including insurance. This is due to the fact that they do not play the market and are unable to help themselves. This is also used in many countries of the European Union, where this mechanism would seem, of course, to be applied because the budgetary sphere is excluded from market games, from the possibility of indexing wages due to, for example, an increase in additional work or maintenance costs. And that was the time when this amendment, my amendment, was made in order to bring the budgetary sphere in some way closer to these employee capital programmes and the period of implementation... After all, it is extremely simple, because the degree of awareness of these workers is far higher, and the form of establishing employment relations It is much simpler because there is no volatility of employment when it comes to signing contracts in different forms, such as contract contracts or contract contracts or no contracts. It's all as if it's the basis for these employees' capital programmes to be the first to enter there. But as a compromise, I'm proposing an amendment. Not like a government that wants it to be two years from now, so maybe not at all, because the situation is changing. In January next year, and at the latest on April 10, because that's what the agreement says, agreements were concluded with the public finance sphere. This is the content of the amendment. I think it may in some way be the subject of a dispute that is suspended... may be the solution to this dispute that is suspended... suspended, and possibly suspended... this will be the form of an increase in benefits to the public finance sphere. After all, I will add that this is a crime, if you can say so. I'm sorry. Please don't take it literally. Recidivists. We have just talked and the Minister has argued widely, in accordance with less than the truth, that the PPE will not move. The PPE was prohibited by all governments in the budgetary sphere, that is, they went where they could, and the law allowed everyone. The Minister of Finance has issued guidelines that he will not give money for what was necessary for this PPE programme to start. He was, of course, the most advantageous, gentlemen of the senators even voted against each other to set up in the PPE Senate as well, because the finance minister suddenly thought that the budget would collapse if the money saved by Mr.Jarosław Kaczyński went into savings. Well, that's the mechanism of it. And I say that the PPK will also be subject to such a curse that where workers pay contributions, it will be a blessing to these workers, and where they refuse, they will remain unsolved. Therefore, please accept this amendment, which, as I say, responds to social expectations, is an expression of justice and may have an impact on the smoothing of social conflicts.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u81	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Minister! Indeed, just like last year, it must be confirmed that since we introduced an insurance system based on a defined contribution, not a defined benefit... It was the work of AWS, an important work, and we all knew from the beginning that it was a slow withdrawal of the state budget from financing the pension system beyond the possibilities. And we knew what the cost would be. Maybe I shouldn't have said "we," because I wasn't in Parliament yet, but I followed it very closely and realized it all. We knew that the cost would be that the average rate of replacing the last salary with retirement would be falling. And then they were supposed to counter two actions, maybe three. The first was carried out quite consistently, despite many objections. It was the liquidation of pension rights. Some of them were, but they were calculated according to objective principles. Unfortunately, here and there, the mining system and partly in the case of police officers were retreated. I think that's wrong, because it hits the payout volume for all pensioners, and yet the system is solidarity If we exclude someone from this solidarity, giving him the privilege, it is at the expense of the others. And that's how it is. The second point is that we should work longer if we live longer. It does not sound good in Poland and it is very bad that it does not sound good, because work is not only a source of prosperity, but also a source of satisfaction. Of course, for those who can work because the pension system in Poland has not been abolished. If someone can't, and it's medically proven, that's what the pension is for, to meet him. Of course, if he worked before, etc., i.e. under certain specific conditions. And if not, then we have a social assistance system aimed at those who could not earn a pension. And the third element that's supposed to be OFE, and this is about saving ourselves the money that's going to be invested into this pension. Which, as I said, by nature, even after all those previous steps, will be lower I'm gonna add some more. This second element was, you can say, the voter's decision made by the Government of Law and Justice, abolished. The retirement age that had been raised earlier has been reduced. This was the core of a political dispute. Most Poles thought that this retirement age should be restored to the old, low, one of the lowest in Europe. Especially since the OFE proved to be an absolutely ineffective mechanism in times of crisis, which was very expensive for the budget, in two ways, and had to be intervened. Law and Justice criticized this, the Platform has matured to this, but has finally made a partial decision to withdraw significant capital, considering that they are subject to excessive risk. That's why... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Hey, fellas... It is therefore a good thing that you are going back to the subject, that you have returned to the subject, that there is a proposal for these employees' capital programmes. Poles, as the Minister said, and we all know from statistics, we see it now in shops... Some people enjoy this consumer boom, and me, a man, let's call it that, from pensioners and pensions, it's rather dead. We're not saving up again, we're spending everything we have and how much we can, and we're spending it now and now. Well, it's a good thing there's a proposition. I'm not gonna dwell on it, because she's got her own important risks and flaws, in my opinion. The advantage is that these are private funds, the disadvantage is that they are invested in the open market. Of course, there's nothing for free. This will be verified by life, whether it will prove sustainable or profitable, but the attempt has been made, perhaps well. But to this particular law, the Civic Platform has tabled an amendment, and I am again reporting it in the Senate, an amendment that concerns powers. Namely, we want to delete lithium. b in Article. Point 1, to maintain the 30-fold limit, as is the case in the general pension scheme. Thank you for the opportunity to speak and remind us of the reasons why we are talking about PPK at all. I had doubts whether the Poles would believe this offer. There's a mechanism that needs to be pulled out of this, so those who stare, wanting not to, will be on this program. But if they manage to save money for their retirement, they will be de facto won, provided that they can make money in this way, and that is not an easy condition. Because the issue of what happens to money placed on the stock market in a time of crisis was discussed in 2008. I hope it doesn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u83	Thank you, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the presence of the auditorium in the Chamber, I would just like to say and may correct that there is no mistaken impression that today we cannot work longer than just until the retirement age is reached. The current pension age law allows everyone to work as much as they want if they want to. But there's no coercion. And this is the most humane and most modern way to approach every human being's work. Whoever can and wills, works, and doesn't need any other laws today. I'm an example of that. You can work for the rest of your life. There are such professions that this work is possible, although it certainly does not concern the work of a miner, the work of a steel worker, the hard work, the physical exhausting work. We're not talking about sick people. In fact, as Senator Augustine said, they have pensions. As for savings, I wouldn't throw out to Poles that we haven't had enough of these savings, although from what I know, it seems that savings have recently been... We have been told that our savings are increasing, but we need to save money. So first we must strive for a higher wage, which our government also does, we have raised for 5 years the lowest wage by almost 500 PLN. But that's not enough, because if you make 2.5 thousand zlotys... It's really hard to blame the Poles for not saving up. It'll come in time. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u85	Thank you, Senator. You will speak, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since Senator Chudowska has turned to the youth and our guests, I would just like to say that you forgot to tell the senator. One thing. I'm very sorry that the senator didn't say exactly what you said at the moment, when the majority of you were restricting the work of Supreme Court judges. Because, as it turns out, you can't work any longer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u87	Senator Rulewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept this not as a criticism, but a warning, which is worse, Senator Czudowska. You have literally said here that it is the government of good change. And the president, let's add, mobilized to accept such a formula that in Poland there is no forced retirement, that everyone can work, who wants. That's what you said, and that's true, that's what our legislation says, but that's a contradiction, a logical contradiction, which in the mouth of a healthcare person sounds very suspicious. Because the pension system was not introduced so that people would have it, as anyone would like, but as a safeguard for the health of the worker. [[It's obvious.]] So, the story... or the creation of even statutory conditions that can be enforced. And they are also forced now, not only in Poland, by economic forced employment due to very low pensions It means destroying this constitutional principle adopted in the developed countries of Europe and not just Europe, where, if you already accept derogations from the pension principle, with us enshrined in the Constitution, it is not who you want, Senator, but who can. And if anyone can, it's this security, this job, whatever it takes. Whatever you want, it's not the same... Even if someone wants to work longer, it is in Poland, but also in other European countries, the standard does not allow to realize their desire or dream or desire. But I repeat: if it were a free choice, we would probably not talk about it, but in Poland it is a choice forced by pensions at the level of a few zlotys. So it's a vain law that a worker can retire and at the same time can't, because he wouldn't be able to hold on. And that is why I am warning you, because this is a revision of something that 100 years ago or even more has been introduced in Europe, and what trade unions have introduced. And I'm a member of the union. They should be watching.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u89	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by Senators Rulewski, Klein, Czarnobaj and Augustine. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to legislative proposals? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: No.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Family and Care Code and the Law on Civil Procedure. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1176, and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 1176 A and 1176 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 16 May 2019, the Legislative Commission adopted a position on the Law amending the Law "Family and caring Code and the Law "Civil Procedure Code'. Previously, the Act passed through the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications. On 24 April 2019, the committee examined the government draft law. The Act is the consequence of the obligation to enforce the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, namely the judgment of 26 November 2013, the signature of Act P 33/12, and the order of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 February 2014, the signature of Act S 2/14. In the first of the judgments, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland was incompatible with art. 71 of the family and caring code, which stated that the denial of fatherhood was not allowed after the death of the child. By virtue of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, Article. 71 has been removed from the legal system. The further consequences of this decision must be regulated at the statutory level. The same solutions should be adopted for all cases leading to the question of the origin of the child after his death. Furthermore, in view of the nature of such cases, it is necessary to specify the time limits within which the origin of the child can be questioned. The second ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which I mentioned, indicated the need to introduce a regulation ensuring that the guardian is properly qualified to represent the child in criminal proceedings in the event of a conflict of interest between his parents and to impose information obligations on that curator against the parent in charge of the child. The proposed arrangements shall determine the qualifications of the guardian established for the representation of the child under Article. Ninety-nine family code and guardian code. Not only in criminal proceedings, but also in any other case, an obligation is imposed on parents who do not participate in the proceedings, the necessary information about the conduct of the proceedings and the steps taken, if this does not harm the welfare of the child. The legal basis for finalising the probation officer's remuneration from public funds has also been introduced. The bill is not controversial and is very expected. I will now present the purpose of the bill. The purpose of the government law on the amendment of the law of the family and caring code and the law of the law of civil procedure is, as I said, the execution of the judgment of the Court of 2013. The Act, as recommended by the Constitutional Court, departs from the principle of stabilisation of the marital status of the child after his death, exceptions to that rule relating to the situation where the child died after the initiation of the maternity or paternity procedure. The Act also contains arrangements for the implementation of the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 February 2014, which indicate the need for a statutory definition of professional requirements vis-à-vis judicial guardians established for the representation of the child in criminal proceedings. The projector also aims to set standards for the representation of the child by the procedural curator. In the assessment of the designers, the amendments submitted do not entail any additional regulatory burden, and any additional expenditure shall cover only remuneration and reimbursement of the costs incurred by the curators. Their height is currently not estimated. Despite the introduction of the principle of specialised preparation of procedural guardians, this law does not provide for training costs. Assessment of the impact of the regulation on the implementation of the rules setting out the standard for fulfilling the role of procedural curator, inter alia it is difficult to develop the relationship between the guardian and the child, with the parents taking care of the child and not participating in the proceedings, as well as with institutions and organisations with knowledge of the situation of the child. The impact assessment of the law does not provide for a separate evaluation of its implementation. The problem is that there is no current diagnosis of the underlying condition, i.e. preparation of currently appointed curators, their activity or omissions. So the only problem remains, as usual, the human factor, which is the issue of predisposition or the activity of curators. The Act amends family and civil law and refers to the procedure used in criminal proceedings. In the part relating to the Court's judgment of 26 November 2013, the amendments introduced include the possibility to complete the process of denying the fatherhood, denying motherhood and establishing the ineffectiveness of the recognition of the child initiated in the life of the child, and to establish motherhood or fatherhood by judicial means after the death of the child. The prosecutor may also bring an action for the determination or denial of paternity and for the determination of the failure to recognise paternity in the interests of the child or for the protection of the social interest, but only until the date on which the child would have reached his/her age. Amendments proposed in Article The 99th Family and Welfare Code shall comply with the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 February 2014. In accordance with that provision, a guardian representing the child may be appointed a lawyer or legal counsel with special knowledge of matters relating to the child of a kind corresponding to the case in which the child is required to be represented, or have completed appropriate training on the principles of representation of the child, rights or needs of the child. That's §3. There is no exception in criminal matters. However, where the degree of complexity of other cases does not require this, in particular when the custody court determines in detail the content of the action, another person with a higher legal education may also be appointed as a curator representing the child. Moreover, under special circumstances, a person who does not have a higher degree of law may be appointed as a curator, i.e. § 4 and 5. The proposed provisions provide for an obligation of the curator It is worth mentioning, so I will mention it before the end of the presentation of this law, among others. to: to know and to hear and inform the child, in so far as his mental development, health and maturity so permit, of his or her actions; to provide written or electronic communication information on the conduct of the proceedings and his/her activities at the request of the child's parents who do not participate in the proceedings if the child's well-being is not prevented; to obtain information on the child, his/her health, family situation and the environment from a parent who does not participate in the proceedings; to the extent necessary for the proper representation of the child This kind of information may also be obtained from bodies or institutions and associations and social organisations to which the child belongs or which provide assistance to the child. At the request of the curator, the remuneration shall be the right of the court, but it may refuse to pay the curator if his assessment of the probation officer's work is minor or the duties are wrongly carried out. The court or body shall decide on the probation officer's remuneration on the basis of the procedural rules applicable to the proceedings in question and the amount of that remuneration shall be determined on the basis of the rules applicable in civil proceedings. The Act shall enter into force 3 months after the date of publication. The provisions of the family and care code in the existing version shall apply to cases in which a guardian has been established before the date of entry into force. The exception is provisions on the curator's obligations to obtain and transmit information between him and the parent not involved in the proceedings and the child. Thank you very much for listening and please accept this proposal without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u91	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Senator Shark was very kind to discuss this legislation in very detail. I would just like to say briefly that the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has dealt with this legislation on 27 May 2019. In examining the provisions of the Law on the amendment of the Law of the Family and Caring Code and the Law of the Civil Procedure, it decided to recommend the High House to accept this project without amendment. The bill was not controversial, there was no more serious discussion of this act. We consider that the indications of the Constitutional Tribunal are very well founded and correct, and I therefore recommend that the High House follow my commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, and adopt this act without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u93	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Mr Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, like to speak? Please, Minister, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Out of respect for the High House, as well as the Senators who have perfectly presented the content of the project, I would just like to ask you to support this project. The project is not controversial, it was unanimously adopted by the Sejm, it was unanimously adopted by the two Senate committees. It seems that the government has done its job properly and has prepared a draft implementing two decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is why I dare ask for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u95	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to congratulate Minister Piebiak. Minister, just like you were with us... Well, in this term, you've been here. Probably 30 times. [[We're used to it.]] And I would like to congratulate you because, for the first or second time in this term of office, the law you are presenting does not raise any legislative objections, as I read in our legislator's opinion in the Specific Notes. [[Let's give it a round of applause.]] [[Applause]] I would like to congratulate the Minister and of course, by putting aside this slight malice, I would like to thank him for this bill. It is, of course, the execution of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, but it is good that you took care of it. As far as family law is concerned, this is probably always the saddest, most tragic thing: parents' disputes about who, how and to what extent will raise their children. This is one of the worst vices, and unfortunately our legal system cannot eliminate it, this playing on the feelings of one parent to a child by another parent. And I am very pleased that this first step in this direction has been taken. Recently there was a resolution commemorating 100 years of curators, very raised. And I hope so, and looking at these regulations, I see the possibility that those who will represent children, minors in these proceedings, will be people, first, honest, and second, well prepared for this. Because we have to remember that there's always balance. The maintenance obligation is very heavily protected, and to the extent that for those who fail to comply with it, there is not only a theoretical penalty risk, but also a real threat. But the fact that maintenance debtors are being pursued very effectively at the moment must also be counterbalanced so that those entitled to alimony carry out their duties. And here I would like to say that I very, very much regret that at the previous sitting... that on Friday following the request of Senator Rulewski, a project was not presented to the High House, which has been over-divided, which has rarely happened to us during this term, by the senators of the 2 joint committees, and concerning the exchange of custody. We had the opportunity, we had the opportunity to help a very large social group, whose right to raise, free access to judicial decisions shaping their ability to interact with children. And this bill that was unfortunately blocked here... I very much regret that Marshal Karczewski did not let this project go to trial, because one of the biggest tragedies of parents is the inability to raise a child when this parent sees the child's life slip away from him through actions The second parent. And it is unfortunately not true that this project is included in a government project which is supposed to be proceded in the Sejm, because there this issue is either not regulated at all, or it is regulated in the old way. And we should absolutely bring here, as senators and opposition, and most of them, to get this project back and to process it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u97	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the ninth item of the agenda: the Act amending the law on cooperative law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1180 and the report of the Commission In print No 1180 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the law on cooperative law. This project contains 3 articles. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 In the Act of 16 September 1982, the cooperative law is repealed in Part I of Title II of Chapter VI. According to Art. 2 to the process of converting a labour cooperative into a commercial company initiated and not completed by entering a commercial company in the register of traders until the date of entry into force of this Act, the existing provisions shall apply. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the announcement. The Act adapts the system of law to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 June 2015, the signature of Act K 25/12, and the order of the Constitutional Tribunal of 15 July 2015, the signature of Act S 5/15, which states that the provisions of the Act of 16 September 1982 are incompatible with the Constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal contested the manner in which the members of the Labour Cooperative were notified of their intention to adopt a resolution on the conversion of cooperatives, the principle of the settlement of cooperatives with members of cooperatives not participating in the converted company, and the lack of possibility to request a re-evaluation of the buy-in and paid-in shares of the Member States and to bring an action for the determination of the entry-in value and paid-in shares of the Member States. In general, the Act abolishes the possibility of converting labour cooperatives into a commercial company. The members of the labour cooperative wishing to open the company will have to carry out 2 completely separate procedures, one eliminating the labour cooperative and the other aiming at setting up a commercial company. The Committee on Economic Affairs requests that the law be passed without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u99	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the Senate. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Mr Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, like to speak? Yeah, I can see that. You're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just like a few minutes ago, I'll be brief. The position of the government with regard to the Senate draft law on amending the law. The cooperative law is positive. The law executes the ruling of the Constitutional Court, executes it in a sort of excessive manner, but of course it can be done. It cuts all speculation, repealing Section VI of Part I of Title II and thus prevents the conversion. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum, the practical application of this provision is negligible. This could potentially apply to 3 entities, and the concept of repealing this part of cooperative law seems to be as appropriate as possible. The government thinks it's positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u101	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 1178 and the report of the Commission In print No 1178 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u102	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Today, I am pleased to present to you the report of the Legislative Commission, the opinion on the Law amending the Law on the Code of Administrative Procedure. It is always a pleasure when we present a bill that comes out of the Senate, passes the whole procedure successfully and returns to us as a law adopted practically without amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, the law compares in effect the sending of a letter to a postal service provider providing universal postal services in another Member State of the European Union with the giving of it in a Polish post office. What does that really mean? From a normal citizen's point of view, the implementation of the bill is the result of a petition by a group of citizens who was brought to the Senate. Young people are staying with us today, so I'm going to say that you can write a petition to the Senate, in which you can ask the senators to change the wrong law or to supplement something. Such a petition came to us, to the Senate. As a result of this petition, we have a change in the bill that the petition committee has prepared. Senator Rulewski reported it in the Seym. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that many of us, staying longer or less abroad, receive various kinds of calls, letters concerning the need to appear in a place or to refer to matters. The issues concerning these letters are governed by code and the time limits are stated there. The deadlines are different, depending on what the case is. So far it has been so that it was decided by the post stamp of the Polish Post, which meant that people who stayed abroad for a while had a problem. Sometimes they even had to appoint representatives, for which it was necessary to pay, or they had to go to the Polish institution, to the embassy or consular post to give a specific letter, because the mode required it. They did it so they wouldn't have to go to the country on purpose to make official formalities there. And that's the bill that's closing it. It makes it possible... So foreign mail stamps will be treated as well as Polish Post stamps. This is currently the case for the countries of the European Union and the countries of the European Free Trade Agreement, namely the EFTA: Switzerland, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. So that this includes many European countries and this is a great facilitation. There was no special discussion on this matter. We'll be able to pass this bill in a vote. If there are any questions, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u103	At present, the senators may ask questions to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the Senate. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? There's no government representative. So I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to inform you that the 11th item, the Act on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology, will be considered around 4:00 p.m. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on National Property Resources and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1185 and the report of the Commission In print No 1185 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today, in the early hours of the morning, a joint meeting was held between the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, which examined the law mentioned by the Marshal. The main objectives and objectives of the amendment of the National Property Resources Act. The amendment of the law aims to increase public land resources for housing investments by involving new entrants in the development of housing. This aims to increase the supply of housing in the so-called. apartment +. The following solutions are intended to ensure the smooth operation of the National Property Resource in the current reality of the real estate market. First, allowing KZN to acquire real estate from companies of the State Treasury. There are 144 companies in which all shares or shares belong to the State Treasury, and at least 75 of them have 1,629 plots of approximately 19,3 thousand ha, which can be useful in the program In case of transfer of real estate, the company will be paid an amount the amount of which will be based on the market value of the property, which will safeguard the property interests of the companies. Secondly, introducing solutions to encourage the Agricultural Property Agency and the Military Property Agency to transfer land to the National Property Resources. The aim is to ensure that these entities participate in the income generated from the sale of real estate transferred by them to the stock, 90% real estate sales prices... Third, excluding the application of the law in respect of land managed by the State Forests. According to the analysis carried out, the properties included in the lists are mostly located in large, compact forest complexes, which represents an important limitation on their use for the implementation of housing investments. The next point is to allow the creation by KZN of special purpose companies with entities other than local government units, i.e. with the State Treasury, with a state legal entity, with a local government unit, with a company whose shareholders are exclusively State Treasury or other state legal entities, and with a company with a majority share of companies whose shareholders are only State Treasury or other state legal entities, and with the participation of an investment fund whose portfolio is managed by the abovementioned entities. They will always be controlled directly or indirectly by the State Treasury or by public legal entities. When creating a special purpose vehicle, the National Property Resources will bring the land in a fetch and such parcels can be made available on the basis of a public-private partnership agreement. It is also about providing the construction of apartments for rent on the land of KZN. The provisions ensure that at least 50% of the housing investments that will be created on the land brought by KZN by a port the usable area of the apartments will constitute a rental apartment on the basis of an institutional lease or an institutional lease with access to the property. It is also a matter of giving up statutory rentals and housing operators. The adjustment of rent rates is negatively received by the market. Achieving moderate rent rates in the investments will enable the rent payment system This Decision is addressed to the Kingdom of Spain. It is also a restriction of the information contained in the lists of real estate transferred to KZN, exclusion from the list of properties occupied by the road belt and covered by surface water flowing or surface standing waters, as well as occupied by railway infrastructure or railway stations and occupied for statutory activities by Poczta Polska. It is also a matter of strengthening the minister's supervision of the disposal of the property, introducing the Minister's consent to the disposal of immovable property not intended for the execution of housing investments, introducing mechanisms to assess the rationality and control the use of land for the execution of residential investments Mr. Marshal, High Senate, in addition to the amendments to the National Property Resources Act, the necessary amendments to other housing and real estate laws were proposed. This is to supplement the Law on the conversion of perpetual use in order to improve the transformation of the land with complex factual and legal conditions In addition to housing, there is a wide range of buildings. It is also a clarification of the scope of the recast in order to harmonise the activities of the authorities confirming the conversion in respect of land on which other facilities or buildings serving residents to properly use residential buildings are also located, which do not change the basic housing function. These could be facilities and devices such as playgrounds, small utility buildings, kiosks, pavilions where residents shop, enjoy entertainment and cultural activities. They can also be objects of small architecture that have a decorative function, such as fountains and monuments, or bring real estate benefits: advertising and billboards. The purpose of the regulation is also to limit cases where prior distribution of real estate is required for conversion. The need for distribution will be limited to land on which other buildings are located. apartments with a usable area of more than 30% the total usable area of all buildings located on the property. This provision will avoid divisions which would result in the separation of parcels under construction sites and small buildings with a non-residential purpose. The revision will simplify and speed up the distribution procedure for land-based housing cooperatives and housing communities. At the same time, it will eliminate any doubts about the possibility of trading in premises before issuing a land conversion certificate and exclude concerns about the need to obtain permission to convert by foreigners who own isolated premises. In the case of conversion to a foreigner, the consent of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration shall not be required. The aim of the novel is also to ensure that citizens are able to benefit from the highest percentage in force in the year in which the transformation took place when the authorities do not have time to issue all the certificates. The amendments to the Property Act relate primarily to the premises forming the so-called premises. small housing communities. In the current legal situation with the so-called. a small housing community occurs when in real estate the number of self-contained premises, i.e. the premises already identified and the unseparated premises belonging to the previous owner shall not be more than 7. The proposed amendment to this law will reduce the number of small housing communities to a maximum of 3 premises. The other changes are adaptable. The Act also introduces amendments to the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Amendment of the Civil Code. The aim is to remove the inaccuracies or legislative errors that were included in this Act during the parliamentary work on the Amending Act of 22 March 2018. In addition, it was extended until 31 December 2021 by a further 2 years, an obligation for the municipality to provide a replacement space for tenants declared to empty the premises occupied on the basis of the allocation decision due to the need for demolition or renovation of the building. This law also amended the definition of the housing stock of the municipality, which is due to changes in Article. 3 of the National Property Resources Act, which introduces this Act. In view of the fact that the special purpose companies pursuant to this Act will not have to be set up with the participation of local government units, there is no justification for the fact that the apartments built by these companies are included in the housing stock of the municipality. In the case of the Law on Financial Support for the Creation of Housing for Rent, Protected Housing, Accommodation, Hostels for Homeless, Heating and Temporary Rooms and the Housing Cooperatives Act, the proposed amendments are mainly a consequence of the modification of the provisions introduced in the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and are intended to maintain the existing legal status, as well as to maintain the legislative coherence of the housing laws. Mr Marshal, High Senate, during the meeting of the two joint committees, a very lively discussion took place, which resulted in a motion at the end to reject this law in its entirety, which was submitted by Senator Florek. and the request to delete the article. The 20 of this bill that you filed with the senator... [[...Rotnicka.]] ...Rotnicka Yes, Senator, Professor Rotnicka. And they were also reported... Our Senate Legislative Office proposed 8 amendments that were simply taken over by the senators and then accepted. Then there was a vote on the adoption of the law in its entirety, together with these amendments. Well, the committee voted it by a majority and proposes to the High Senate that the High Senate adopt this law together with these 8 amendments. That's pretty much it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u105	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] At present, the senators may submit questions to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. There's no government representative. So I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... [[Wait a minute, but there are questions for a government representative. I have questions for the government representative.]] There's no government representative. [[But it was a government project?]] Yes. There's no government representative. [[That's too bad. I'm the one signing up for the discussion.]] Good. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Florek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u106	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The project was government, so it required consultation. I was going to ask the Minister if he was consulted, for example. in the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, if any, what was the opinion If he has been consulted with local authorities. I was gonna ask you a few questions about how many contracts KZN has signed with the apartment operators so far, if they're willing to sign these contracts. I could multiply these questions, I have a few, but I'll go to the point if I can't ask them. Well, High Izbo, in July 2017, the Senate adopted the Act on National Property Resources. I remember today that this bill was presented by Minister Tomasz Żuchowski from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction 'Cause those cases were in that ministry at the time. And he promised that 100,000 apartments would be built, that they would be cheap apartments, that they would cost about 2.5 thousand PLN for 1 m2, that they would be apartments for rent, that they would be apartments with access to property after 30 years. That's what he promised us. I also remember that he promised us a law on the urban and construction code and that this code would enter into force on 1 January 2018 at the latest. And to this day, we look forward to this code. And that's why I'm saying that I remember the Minister in particular because, as it was Construction Day at that time, the Minister was supposed to give the award to the Construction Department, and when he stepped on the platform and saw that it was his predecessor, the previous Minister gave the award, he said that he would not give the award. That is why I remember Minister Żuchowski very much from this speech. And I particularly want to stress that unfortunately, but what Minister Żuchowski said, what he said was going to be, has not yet been realized. Of course, then there were changes, because construction went to the Ministry of Investment and Development. I still have pictures of KZN, showing how nice it's going to be, how it's gonna speed things up, how the Minister nails the board, like the National Property Resources, like all these apartments, how these investments are going to move fast. Minister Adamczyk then nailed this board. We were very critical of the KZN Act at this meeting. We thought that the way she was prepared wouldn't do her job. And after two years, we are back to the subject, although in the meantime another special act was to be a rescue for the program, which was already presented by Minister Soboń. The Minister, I see, is already in the courtroom. Me too, Minister, in connection with this change of program, I barely made it. So that Minister Soboń At the time, he presented this proposal and was intended to facilitate the preparation and implementation of housing investments. We discussed this law extensively, too. It was about making a location decision. I remember that in the first version he was going to give it to the voivod, then it went back to the council and yet the council was going to issue it. It was supposed to be a rescue, too. The idea was to speed up the construction of these apartments with the apartment +. Well, what did it turn out to be? That the situation is still the way it is. I'm about to figure out how many of these apartments have been built. In my opinion, this specialty is dead at the moment, too. And now for a new rescue. Because the idea is to somehow run the construction of these apartments with a living room +-- that is to say, the amendment of the National Property Resources Act. A law quite extensive, with 56 pages, amending 10 laws. Today it was discussed at the committee meeting and at the moment we are proceeding with this law. The Minister presented to us, showed us the plan, such a map showing how the implementation of this programme in Poland looks like at the moment, how many applications have been submitted. Well, 79 projects per 40,000 apartments That is the result of the map that the Minister gave us. Project work is ongoing for 35 projects, i.e. About 15 thousand apartments will be built in this way. But the facts are that under construction, according to this information, there are 3 projects, a total of 658 apartments. And the finished apartments with 7 projects are a total of 867. That's what's been built on the bill. I remind you that the purpose of the bill was clear: it was to increase the number of apartments for rent Because these apartments for rent in Poland are very few. Okay. 4%. The apartments are apartments for rent. In some countries, e.g. in Germany, the rent is almost 50% apartments. So you have to do something to increase the number of apartments for rent. One attempt was made, i.e. the amendment of the law, so-called. Specialist, and now we have a second attempt, an attempt to amend, to possibly speed up procedures. Well, what do we have in this bill? The idea is to increase the supply of land that could be used by KZN. Well, let's remember how it was in the previous law and which land was to be transferred to KZN. Well, the land from the old men, the land of the State Treasury, also the land of the Forests, which were not forested... This law is already changing this and this land, so to speak, the agricultural agency, I mean the previous agency, the one with the previous name. There will no longer be... And many other land that was to be transferred to the stock... There was a fixed whole procedure for transferring them to the stock, namely that this will first go to the voivodeship, there will be a review and those that will actually be needed will go to the stock. Well, as it turns out, these land went into the resource... I don't really know how much. I wanted to ask the Minister, as I said, but there was no way. How many of these lands have gone into the stock? What percentage of the land that went into the stock was transferred to soft +, we don't know that either, but probably a small amount of it, if not zero, is certainly a very small number. Because this is due to the fact that, as you can see, these apartments are not being built. So the question arises: are there land on which one can build? I recall our discussion about such areas, e.g. about areas after the PKP, when it was said that how all this will be transferred to the resource Because the National Property Resource was created, the whole institution, with the president, the vice president, with the actions taken, etc. Then the supply of these apartments with the apartments +. will improve. And it turns out you have to look for another rescue, that such land that would be suitable for realization... In general, it is a matter of land not far from the centre to be armed, and yet the law speaks of distances, i.e. at what distance must be the school, public facilities, etc. It turns out that such land is definitely not in the stock, so now you are looking for a rescue, what to do. Well, there are some Treasury companies. As I remember, these companies, 100% of the companies of the Treasury, are in Poland with a hundred and forty pairs. And the point is to eat it now, so join the stock also land, which is the land of the Treasury companies. Well, here is the first doubt, because the companies of the Treasury must follow the Commercial Code, companies should primarily deal with the financial activity of the company in order to carry out their tasks. Therefore, it is probably possible to question whether the companies of the State Treasury should transfer the land to KZN, the National Property Resources, which are then to be... Well, I don't think there are any special-purpose companies, because I haven't heard of any special-purpose companies being set up at all. They were supposed to build these apartments that were supposed to take over the land and carry out the construction on it. Of course, the bill says that for payment, otherwise it wouldn't be possible. So the land that goes to KZN will be properly valued and KZN will pay so that it is in accordance with the formalities so that the management board of the company is not accused of acting to the detriment of the company, which is already the result of the commercial code. So it was invented... [[Time, Mr. Senator...]] Time's passing, okay? Oh, it's over. Mr. Marshal, to recap... well, there were a few other important things that we discussed at the committee meeting, for example. case concerning a very negative opinion of the Polish Towns Association on this law Because a union representative was present. In our opinion, this amendment will not change anything, it will not accelerate the construction of apartments for rent. That's what we said about the first law before the amendment, and we said about the changes. Currently, on behalf of the club, on my behalf, I can present the same position, i.e. that, in this form, the bill presented will not fulfil a specific task, so we cannot vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that Senator Wiesław Dobkowski has submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Yes, Minister? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for this debate and to say that those amendments that you tabled on behalf of the Law and Justice Club concerning the conversion of perpetual use into property, the standards for access to school in connection with the localisation resolution and issues related to the National Property Resources, have the full support of the government. The bill itself has a twofold character. On the one hand, it introduces more flexible formulas for building projects. On the other hand, it really defines and defines the scope of the information received, and the catalogue of entities from which we accept information about resources, it also renounces the resources of State Forests and introduces state Treasury companies, which are 100% controlled by the State Treasury. This will allow, according to this information which the senators received during the committee's meeting, to reach 50,000 apartments by the middle of this year when it comes to investment proposals. In this resource, which is already in the National Property Resource, there is potential for 63 thousand apartments. These are real estate, which are after studies containing sozological opinion, geotechnical opinion, legal, tax and architectural opinions, so that after the amendment they will be able to be used under the Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Family Benefits. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No. 1016, and the committee's report In print No 1016 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I am pleased to be able to report in the presence of the Marshal, Marshal Kloc, who, at the same time, has become a MEP in... [[Well, I wasn't...]] I understand that after you took your vows, like everywhere else. It is so in the European Union. [[But I didn't get a ticket. No, Mr. Senator.]] You didn't get it? They gave me... [[But it's Isabella Block, not Maria Blanket.]] Oh, I'm so sorry. But I know you tried, Mrs. Marshal. [[I tried.]] That means it's such a wish that it will happen. [[Thank you very much.]] I have the honour to present to the High House a report of two committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which, according to 'Cause I'm warning you that the vote was unanimous... This is a social problem signalled in 2 petitions, petitions submitted properly on behalf of the ladies, but also involving men, women receiving the so-called. the pension of the EWK, and parents who have otherwise become guardians of children with disabilities. First, the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions adopted these petitions individually for work, and then two joint committees combined them into a single legislative act. What does this bill sum up the committee's work on petitions propose? It proposes to introduce a new form of family provision into care services. It will be for all those parents who, first, in 1989, using the kindness of the regulation, retired after 20 years of work or 25 years They were men and therefore received pension benefits. The second group... Well, as a result of the evolution of the law, there was another parenting community, which also took care of children, only that this situation arose as a result of quitting work and taking care of a demanding child, let's face it, care, and therefore of a significant degree of disability or disability requiring such care. The legal evolution of various benefits, but also the amount of benefits, has caused women who have EWK felt that they were in a worse situation and applied for a supplementary welfare benefit. Let me give you an example. Many of these women received, as a result of what was in 1989, a benefit sometimes not reaching the minimum pension. Even those who received this benefit However, there have also been cases of higher retirement when they were caring for parents, they found it unfair that in the following years another benefit in the family benefit scheme gave parents who resigned or did not take up work but took care of children, 1 thousand 583 PLN; this is the amount this year with the possibility of change due to salary indexing. In this way, there began to be a serious difference in the amount of the benefit between the same, you can say, the entities, the same parents. There was a parent who took care of the child and although he received a pension, but she was very small, it was 800 PLN, 500 PLN, 1 thousand 100 PLN, although sometimes more, and at the same time lived in the neighborhood of the parent, who at least since 2014. So this was in the previous term of the Senate, the parliament received, as I remember, 1 thousand 300 PLN, and now 1 thousand 583 PLN. Thus, the same entities in the same life situation, their material situation was defined in terms of state aid, had almost twice... Yet, of course, the situation was different for all those who did not belong to the EWK category, i.e. they did not pass as pensioners for care... The current law deprives such parents of any benefits when they received the benefit, and here is the index of such benefits. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 15000000. There are several categories of benefits. If any of these parents received this benefit, then of course they did not have the right to provide care. As a result of petitions and subsequent work, this harsh parameter was decided, it is a strict criterion to eliminate and grant these parents the right to provide care. But it's a requirement. In both the petition and the proposed law It's not far. This is not to be another benefit, apart from pension benefits, but only complementary to the maximum amount received today by parents, that is 1 thousand 583 PLN. So this could be half of it, it could be a small sum. The committees, and not only the committees, shared this view that this inequality should be regulated by law by granting and creating the conditions for granting... As I said, other criteria are abolished, but it will still have to be calculated how much this benefit, as a complement, will amount to. Therefore, the draft law states that these matters will be dealt with by the departments of the family benefits of the local government. Of course, when the income situation of these people changes, these decisions will be corrected. It is so one, let's say, difficulty in receiving such a benefit, but necessary. The bill will rule out something that could happen. As you know, in addition to these benefits, allowances, there is also a special allowance, a special care allowance, but the creators of the bill decided that it would not be regulated, because some people, due to the construction of this allowance, where the income is mentioned and its amount, could lose on this regulation, and this is not an expectation or purpose of the work of the committee. As far as opinions are concerned, they were generally supported, even by the Ministry of Finance, the Attorney General... Only the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy pointed out that the regulations contained here are ahead of the work of the Ministry, which believes that many of these solutions relating to the care of the disabled should not be so late as they should certainly be delayed until, briefly speaking, the reform of the caselaw, which will allow perhaps actually objectively, and not like this draft law, which is not model, introduce forms of state aid for both the disabled and their carers. The scope of the proposed law is not governed by European law and it is not foreseen that the European Union will be subject to any reservations about this. It's still important what kind of group it is. This includes, for today, about 32 000 parents from the EWK system, thus collecting these small pensions. However, the number of other cases is unexplored, people who then, but not because of unemployment, although that was the context then, went to... They had a job, but they gave it up to look after the kids. The financial impact, the maximum, is PLN 153 million for the financial year to come. It is expected that the Act will enter into force on 1 January. Well, that's pretty minimal, because the maximum ones are probably going to be bigger. However, it must be added that this will be the result, so to speak, of the fading. Yes? One might point out that if someone retired in 1989, he was about 50 years old. Since then, it has been another 30 years, so it is easy to calculate, predict that in a few years' time this model solution will no longer apply or will be useless. High Izbo, in the name of social justice, to make amends to those harms which these mentioned people feel and which were not so much guilty as... Well, it happened as a result of the evolution of legal and caring systems, and they caused the difference. In any case, I request that this bill be adopted without amendment. And, if you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, in order for us to move on to the third reading...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u111	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes.]] Today we have Minister Stanisław Szwed, Deputy Minister of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Maybe a little more information about the problem that the Senate is trying to solve, which is a few words about amending the Family Benefits Act. The problem that has arisen for many years is the so-called issue. EWK pensions, i.e. those pensions that were once granted to adults who care for disabled children. Today this system no longer exists, but since we have introduced a care provision, there is indeed a difference in these benefits. And this is one of the problems that we are trying to solve when it comes to issues relating to the carers of people with disabilities. This proposal, which was also the result of the petition, was analyzed by us at the Ministry. We have an estimate of the cost of this solution. At the level of about PLN 170 million. In 2018, EWK's pension amounted to almost 35 000 people. That's the issue I'm saying, also from the petition. The Senate Commission, through the new provisions in this proposal, has strongly extended the circle of rights, and today we can say that the number of people entitled to do so is 9 million 600 000. Well, that's everyone referred to in the article. 17ba. In fact, it can affect anyone, because it doesn't even say that someone has to look after them or anyone else... it could also be people who don't have children. Yes? That's what the rule says. Therefore, in these materials, which you present in the High Senate, there is no record of what would be the cost and how many people it would involve. So in this form, which is contained in the draft law, this solution would be very, very extended when it comes to the circle entitled to provide care. As I said at the beginning, this could apply to all those who receive this witness. It is clear that all those with lower benefits could benefit from this. So that without any data on who, what the financial consequences would be, it is difficult to state here that this project is acceptable by the government or by the finance minister, like the senator who presented the project here, he said. In this form, this proposal is certainly not acceptable to the Ministry that I represent. Of course, we do not have an official position on the project, because this project is so far in the second reading phase, but, as I say today, in this form which is proposed, it greatly extends this circle of people and does not meet the criteria of the first version which was presented. This is a question of equalisation of care services, with the possibility of equalizing up to a higher amount to those who take EWK's benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u113	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Is anybody... Oh, Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u114	Minister, you said that this is too general a formula for those who would benefit from this benefit, albeit of a limited amount. This is indeed in the article. 17ba, but if read together with art. 17 and other provisions, it is clear that we are only talking about people who are resigning from employment there. It's a mother or a father. - or are obliged to continue to do so. I'm sure it has to be specified that these care benefits... that this care is required, of course, if they're not deprived of parental rights. So we're talking about kids again. Well, if this is a minor up to 16 years old, then a disability certificate... If above, then of course it is still a child, but it must have a significant degree of disability. And when there are no other relatives who are entitled to alimony... So it's a formula. I don't want to explain the whole thing here. Very limited. So it cannot be said that it will be for every guardian who takes care of a disabled person. Accent, repeat, put on the children. For children affected by the need for care. And it's not like that, except in certain cases. In the countryside this phenomenon may occur... Encouragement, for example in this law, concerning the provision of a type of 300 • 400 PLN is probably not an incentive for such a person to leave work, and such a condition is here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u115	Thank you. Minister... [[Is that how you say it's too broad?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u116	I'm using what you've presented. The report. There is also a clear statement in the report This is the second option that you adopted at the joint committee meeting. That you're expanding it. And there's no record of what group it's touching. Well, if we're gonna have any reliable sources... We went to the U.S.S. to see what group of people might be involved, but today we don't have that kind of data. We can't even count the costs that it might be, because the fact that we're assuming today that someone won't take advantage of it is just an assumption. Well, to be precise... In fact, the first option was precise because it dealt with issues related to EWK pensions. And it's a closed circle. As I said, it was less than 35 thousand people in 2018. These differences can be estimated and estimated at PLN 170 million, and in perspective We are making a financial perspective for 10 years, that is over PLN 1 billion 700 million. We can estimate that. Other data... EWK is dropping, here we have a downward trend, which means we have an opportunity to check this out. What you proposed on the committee today is completely... an extension, an opening of the gate. We do not even know what the consequences of this decision you want to propose here will be. Therefore, our assessment in such a situation, in the case of such a project, is negative. Which doesn't mean we don't understand the problem because we understand the problem that's affecting... And also those solutions that we are proposing, even if this new benefit, which will now be proposed, is 500 PLN for the carers of older people with disabilities, i.e. those over 18 years of age who have acquired disability and are independent. That's what the government's new proposal will be about. And that's going to be 500 zlotys. And this solution will somehow affect those issues that we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u117	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Yes. Please. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u118	This last statement of yours proves that you have counted... Because I hear there's talk of PLN 3.5 billion. So you can assume that if it were maximum, it would be PLN 3.5 billion. So respect is. But it certainly won't be enough because there are subjective limitations. Is this how it is to be understood that you have estimated that anyone who will take care of a disabled child, although up to the age of 18... that this will cover this amount of PLN 3.5 billion? There's no limit to that. It's a kid up to the age of 18. Although I think it will be unconstitutional again. Well, why 18 years old when a child with a disability is supposed to have an allowance and another child isn't supposed to have one? Unless it's whatever the material situation...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u119	I mean. Today, when we are talking about this novel, we can certainly accurately estimate the number of people who are receiving a social pension. Because there's about 260,000 of them. And this is the group that is defined to receive this support. And other groups are not yet estimated. That's what we're working on. So that here we do not have a closed directory for the next groups, which will be covered by this solution 500 zł plus.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u120	Thank you very much. Any more questions? No. Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are considering item 11 of the agenda: the Act on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. The text of the Act in print no. 1179, and the report of the committee In print No 1179 A. I would very much like to ask Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, to present a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u121	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The committees at the joint meeting, first on 23 May and later on 28 May, discussed this law. On the first day, as a result of comments submitted by the Legislative Bureau and by a representative of the Minister, also present here by Minister Paweł Majewski, the senators came to the conclusion quite quickly that the matter requires a little deeper reflection. Therefore, a break was ordered during which both the Minister, present at the meeting of the legislator Szymon Gidewicz, who prepared the opinion and the senators, came to an agreement, with the result that on the second day of the meeting, i.e. May 28th, the doubts were explained. The Act concerns I'm just gonna say a little bit. The rules governing the taking up and pursuit by traders of economic activities in the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology, as well as the control of those activities, as well as the rules for the purification of areas from explosives and hazardous materials. As this is the implementation of EU law, it is a government submission. Such a solution is adopted by individual countries. Poland belongs to countries which, at the same time, are producing weapons... We accept this as the first country in the European Union to produce weapons The countries of the European Union that are not arms producers have so far accepted this. This came out during the committee meeting, such were comments and comments. At the same time, at a committee meeting, one of the senators pointed out that our neighbour, the Czech Republic, had complained to the Court of Justice of the European Union about the wording of a general law which was detrimental to his interests as a producer of arms. Poland is also one of the countries that produce and export weapons and ammunition, and some provisions of the proposed law have been controversial. In particular, there was controversy about the provision relating to the Article. Forty-four, specifically, whether the individual... But first, before we talk about it, we have to say that individual elements, e.g. weapons are called significant components in the bill. For these components significant in the translation of the original law in certain countries in this article. 44, which I am about to say in a moment, appears the term "or" And sometimes, and sometimes, and sometimes. These are, of course, two completely different coherences. It is the treatment of individual designation, usually numerical, essential components. And now it's about whether all the components are to be numbered, or if there's a complete weapon, one of these components, that is, or... This was devoted to a large part of the discussion and comments of the Legislative Bureau. This is set out in detail in the opinion. Summa summarum in our solution To those who today are proposed to the High House for an opinion, there is the term "or." This means that when you come out a little bit, you also have to say to yourself, openly, the expectations of the manufacturers of weapons in Poland. We do not establish an obligation to numbering every important component of weapons or ammunition. Of course, this may have repercussions at a later stage, because we can introduce such a law and manufacturers will produce weapons, but if it turns out that this manufactured weapon is traded and because not every important element has been numbered, there is a problem with its sales or trading in other countries, it will be a specific problem for those producers that will have to solve. At present, this solution, which is proposed, meets the expectations of national producers. It must also be said that this law was very well consulted. This is, I think, a pattern of cooperation between the Legislative Office, the Ministry and the Senate, which, by reacting and adopting a number of proposed amendments... We ask you to give a positive opinion on the bill adopted by the Sejm together with the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Anybody want to ask that question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Paweł Majewski is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone want to ask that question? Senator Gawel. Good. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. And the senator is about to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u123	Minister, the European Union directive mentioned here, as we know, has not been adopted by Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany and Italy. You know why these countries are not implementing the European Union directive so far. The question in this context is: why are we in such a hurry to do this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u124	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Poland is in the European Commission's procedure for not implementing this directive. That's one thing. Secondly, how else is Poland supposed to build a weapons registration system that all EU countries had to implement since 2014? The principles of budgetary financing are such that there must be a law which provides the basis for the construction of this system. The implementation of the Directive is necessary in order to build this system and find money to finance it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u125	Thank you very much. [[I'll tell you what.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u126	Do you agree, then, that we do not really have a proper law on arms trafficking and ammunition in Poland, that we are not able to properly arrange all relations that are related to the production and use and possession of weapons? Do you agree with that? Should we work on a new law on arms and ammunition?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u127	I'm not authorized to make declarations on the arms and ammunition bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u128	Thank you. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. I also inform you that the speeches to the minutes were made by senators Robert Mamytkow and Władysław Komarnicki. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We begin to consider item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland and on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of Poland. I would remind you that this project was brought in by Senator Jan Zarin. The project is included in print No 1169, and the report is published in print No 1169 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Marshal of the Senate on 7 May this year. He sent the draft I had prepared to the Legislative Commission. The Legislative Commission was gracious to meet on 23 May 2019 and after a brief discussion a draft resolution was adopted, which I will read in a moment. It is a draft resolution on two related historical events in general, events in which we are still orbiting, because thanks to these two events we are a free and independent state. The first is of course the first pilgrimage of Pope John Paul II to Poland in June 1979. This was the consequence of the election of the Polish Pope for the Capital of Peter. This pilgrimage, as we know today, fortunately universally, and it is not only us, Poles, because Europe and the world also know it, has contributed to the greatest extent to overthrowing communism in the long distance not only in Poland, but also throughout Central and Eastern Europe. Undoubtedly the second circumstance, which is the 30th anniversary of partially free elections to the Sejm and fully free to the Senate... This anniversary is the anniversary of an event that was important, if not a very important event on the road from this pilgrimage to independence as its de facto effect. Looking at those events from a time distance, today we're much smarter than we were then. And in 1979, and in 1989. But as a historian, I must say that perhaps what would sound paradoxically, in 1979 the wisest was Leonid Breżniew, because Moscow clearly implied and clearly told the first secretary of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Edward Gierek: you will not stand this confrontation and therefore do not invite Pope John Paul II to Poland. Of course, Breznev left this decision in the hands of the first secretary, but probably from now on he nodded his head that the Soviet domination was nearing its end on the training of Central and Eastern Europe, which included. The proof was that under his command the Political Bureau of KC KPZR in the autumn of 1979, after the pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland, decided to create and take into account all possible measures to eliminate this man on the Capital of Peter. If we are looking somewhere for the genesis of the assassination of 13 May 1981, the answer is the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland. This is how we see it today as a nation much smarter, because much more today we understand from what happened both 40 years ago and 30 years ago, in 1989. If you don't mind, I'll read the text of the draft resolution, and then I'll take care of one thing for a while. Small, complementary. Here's the story. On the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland and on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and partly free elections to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Let your Spirit descend and renew the face of the earth. Pope John Paul II cried 40 years ago, on June 2, 1979, during his first Holy Mass celebrated on Polish soil, on pl. Winnings in Warsaw. These words fell deep into the collective memory of Poles, becoming a signal for extraordinary changes. Awakened as a Nation by John Paul II, we have found the strength to build the sphere of freedom in the sacrificial activity of the democratic opposition and in the great movement of Solidarity against violence and lies. Towards independence, greeting the Pope during his subsequent pilgrimages, the Poles cried out: "There is no freedom without Solidarity. Implementation of this password became possible when the foundations of the communist system began to crumble in Poland and other countries of Eastern Europe, and finally in the Soviet Union. 30 years ago, on June 4, 1989, Poles were able for the first time, although still in a more plebiscite form than in a real democratic form, to confirm their independence aspirations in an election act. At that time, the Solidarity Camp won a spectacular victory in the free elections to the Senate, and in the contractual elections to the Sejm he won all the mandates for genuine competition. The defeat of Communists in the elections on 4 June 1989 opened the way for the reconstruction of democracy and the restoration of Poland's sovereignty, and then, in the autumn of 1989, for democratic changes in the countries of the Soviet sphere of influence. On the anniversary of the elections, the Sejm and the Senate commemorate events that led to Poles' dreams of freedom and independence. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I would like to draw your attention to the penultimate paragraph, starting with the words "Sejm and Senate" on the anniversary of the elections, etc. Well, this draft resolution, although prepared by us here in the Senate, became a project which, for obvious reasons, came to the Sejm as the first, i.e. due to the calendar of the work of the Sejm and the Senate, and there without major changes was adopted. And in such a formula, as a resolution of the Sejm, he was transferred to the Senate with a proposal that we accept it in the same version, so that on 4 June the appointed person could solemnly read this joint resolution of the Sejm and the Senate. However, I would like to stress that part of the paragraph that was not included in this joint Sejm-Senat project is important to me as the author of this project. I would like to read this passage to you, so that we can at least here, in this place, cemetery this sentence, because I think it is important. After the June elections, the Senate of the Republic of Poland became a natural symbol of continuity between the II and the III Commonwealth, built in trouble and among many opposites. This is a sentence that is also worth remembering, because we are carriers of this continuity of the Second Republic since the very beginning of this House, since 1989. And it is also worth remembering the 1946 referendum, which was subjected to a brutal test, which was unfortunately successful, the forgery of the Senate was thus abolished. This House was not fortunate to be present in the period of People's Poland, it was this absence that was also a symbol of lack of sovereignty. And this sentence should be read in this double sense. I think, therefore, that the greater our task is to have such resolutions, also concerning our latest history, put to the vote here. Sovereignty is the value that is definitely dependent on memory, so in memory let this resolution be passed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u130	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. Let me remind you that you are Senator Jan Żaryn as well. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. And I would like the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When the Cardinal was elected from Cracow to the capital of St. Peter in Rome, one of his first decisions could be expected to be a pilgrimage to his homeland. Besides, in his first speech to the Poles, the Pope announced that he wanted to celebrate the 900th anniversary of the martyrdom of St. Stanisława. In fact, then, visiting the country was only a matter of time, although it could be expected to multiply the various obstacles from party notes, listening to Moscow more than from their own assessment of the situation. But one thing was certain: you will not be able to close the gates of your homeland before such a countryman. Each of us, older ones, remembers the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to his homeland. I was then the editor of the Guest of Sunday, and it was a happy day for me, because I was lucky that from Warsaw to Cracow Airport in Balice I was at all the stations of this pilgrimage. I remembered the image of Poland, which began to meet with the Holy Father. There were so many people that it seemed as if the whole country had stopped to meet one man. I remember the great joy of people, the courage that we often lacked. And this first meeting of John Paul II with the nation on June 2, 1979 was literally, as in the resolution here we emphasized, shocking to power and dissuading for almost all society. It should be said that it was only at this moment that Poles realized the great distinction that this election has given us. And then they did not help those desiring to meet the Holy Father with various communication difficulties, but other warnings seemed to come to nothing. At the Mass at the Victory Square in Warsaw 230 thousand entry cards were issued, 300 thousand were pressed and 750,000 filled the adjacent streets. When this great cry was made for the Spirit to come down and renew the face of this land, or Poland, everyone felt a thrill. Without realizing it to the end, millions of people felt that Poland's second baptism was beginning, and politically, the decline of communism. He well understood this new breeze of history then newly appointed Secretary of State of Cardinals. Agostino Casaroli. He realized that this newly elected pope had crossed the entire carefully conducted policy of the Eastern Vatican. From now on, the Holy See will not seek to reduce tensions between churches and communist regimes, but to fight for the freedom of individual national churches. And, as we will see later in the activity of the Holy Father, the Vatican will become an arbiter in international affairs. It was the words calling for recognition of human rights and respect for the spiritual values of the Victory Square that demonstrated that the Church sees herself in a new role. This pilgrimage was already seen by many experts as the beginning of the end of communism. Just to remind you that the Pope saw 13 million Poles, so every third resident could see that he was participating in something so beautiful that he might have thought he was dreaming. The papal words of this great hope fell deep into everyone's heart and mind. I quote: "Never doubt, do not feel weary and discouraged in the fight for justice, respect for the rights and voice of every citizen and every nation. We remember that this appeal met after 448 days with a response. After so many days after John Paul II's departure, there was a trade union called "Solidarity." The moral revolution began, which prepared a later political and social liberation. It would not have been possible without this papal summer. I would like to draw attention to the important reminder in the resolution of the words uttered on 2 June 1979 during this first Holy Mass at the Victory Square, the words that John Paul II called for the Holy Spirit, which then resulted so well. He said: "I am calling, son of Polish land, and at the same time I, John Paul." II, the Pope. I cry out from all the depths of this Millennial age, I cry out on the eve of Pentecost, I cry out with all of you: "Let your Spirit come down!" Let your Spirit descend and renew the face of the earth. This Earth! This call to the Holy Spirit was then crowned in Cracow, where confirmation of the history of the entire millennium was held and at the same time preparation for the new millennium. To this day, this papal cry wakes us Poles to change our hearts, to act, giving strength and hope for God's help. It was right in the draft resolution that we emphasized that the papal cry had then broken the walls of the communist system, led to free elections, to the regaining of a democratic and sovereign homeland. Before this freedom came, however, the communists decided to crush the movement of Solidarity, born of papal inspiration. Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski issued war to the nation by introducing martial law in Poland on 13 December 1981. What happened at that time in the heart of the Polish Pope? God knows for himself. We know the papal procedures from that time, personal letters to the first secretary of the KPZR in Moscow Leonid Breznev, so that there will be no Soviet intervention in Poland. We know the papal prayers on the days of the martial law and remember his arrival in his homeland in June 1983. Although there was still martial law in the country, the pope brought the words of hope which he expressed in his greeting: Peace to you, Polish, Motherland My! Finally, he arrived on 4 June 1989. On that day, the Communists were defeated in the Senate elections and later in the Sejm. In a word, freedom would not be possible without the choice of a compatriot. And his pilgrimages to Poland Peter's Capital, Cardinal of Cracow, John Paul II. It is difficult to grasp the meaning of the papal pilgrimage in a short speech. Surely we can point to John Paul's words II, in which he spoke about social change, about human rights. For me personally, because of the importance mentioned at the beginning of the draft resolution of the papal words, this cry for the ascending of the Holy Spirit... In my memory is the most message that followed every day, until the end of the pilgrimage, contained in the words: man is not able to understand himself to the end without Christ, but rather man cannot understand himself. And then further words: one cannot understand the history of the nation without Christ, because the nation is the history of man. It was a pilgrimage of awakening, calling us all in the sign of Christ, who never leaves man or nation to himself. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u132	Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. I'll ask Senator Andrzej Kaminski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This year we celebrate the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of the Holy Father John Paul II to Poland. For the first time in the history of Poland, Piotr of our time arrives on the Polish soil. It was a pilgrimage greatly awaited by both the Polish nation and the Pope himself. What the Holy Father carried out from Poland was always a living echo during nearly 27 years of Peter's ministry. On the day of the inauguration of the pontificate, he said that he did not cease to be a brother to his fellow countrymen in language and culture, faith, hope and love. He is a shepherd of the universal Church, but looks at the heritage of people and societies through the heritage and experience that he carried out from Poland. The Holy Father is coming to bear witness to Christ who lives in the soul of his own people. He comes to speak to the whole Church of Europe and the world about the Slavic nations, often forgotten, and he comes to take all nations with his own people into the heart of the Church. During the 8 pilgrimages to his homeland, the Holy Father outlined a programme of action for his fellow countrymen in changing realities and showed the way to overcome the socio-moral crisis. Each pilgrimage was for a different period of experience, but everyone was accompanied by joy. Each was experienced at a different time, under different socio-political conditions. The first pilgrimage was a particularly pleasant surprise for the nation. So far, all efforts to make the governor of Christ visit our nation have been fruitless. Only the Pope of Poles could meet the expectations of believers. He met with millions of believers, became a signpost to them for the future, hope and joy. His fervent prayer for the Polish nation became the beginning of the national rebirth. The Holy Father's visit to Poland has been awaited for many years. For the first time, this possibility was considered publicly in connection with the celebration of the millennium of Poland's baptism in 1966. But then Pope Paul VI could not come to Poland. The desire of the Polish nation to host the Pope could not have been realized until 1979. It came true in a form that no one could plan and predict. On 2 June 1979 John Paul II came to Poland for the first time. This journey has become a journey between two homelands. This was mentioned by the pope in his farewell speech in Rome before he left for the country: I leave my homeland by choice to which I was called to serve the universal church by God's will, and I go to my homeland, to my family, which I left only a few months ago. The anniversary of the nine hundredth anniversary of the martyrdom of St. Stanisława became, as was the millennium of Poland, the most important historical and religious event for the nation. The Pope considered it his moral duty to attend the jubilee celebrations. Another motive for his journey was his desire to contribute to the integration of believers and to the development of relations between the state and the church. Warsaw was the first stage of John Paul's pilgrimage II. The Holy Father met in Belvedere with representatives of the Supreme Government of the Polish People's Republic. In his speech, John Paul II expressed his gratitude to the Polish authorities for joining the invitation of the Episcopate, expressing the wishes of Catholic society, so that the Pope could visit his homeland. In the afternoon, the Holy Father presided over the Pontifical Holy Mass at the Victory Square. The Primate of Poland in the welcome speech asked the Pope to gather all the sufferings and joys of the rebuilt Warsaw and the reborn homeland, always faithful to Christ and his church, to offer them to the Supreme Father as a thanksgiving sacrifice for ten centuries of Christianity in Poland. The Holy Father asked that the Polish Holy Spirit come down to earth and renew its face. This speech was interrupted by long applause and singing. They sounded particularly strongly when the Pope said: "It is not possible to understand this nation, which had a past so wonderful, but at the same time so terribly difficult, without Christ. Gniezno was the second stage of the journey of the governor of Christ in his home country. In his speech, he greeted all Christian Poland and its fellow nations. He said, among others.: Your countryman, the Pope, is coming to speak to the whole church, Europe and the world about these often forgotten nations and peoples. It comes to show those ways which in various ways lead back to the Upper Room of Green Christmas, towards the Cross and the Resurrection. The next day John Paul II went to Czestochowa. In homily the Holy Father spoke to many gathered believers about the role played by the Queen of Poland in the life of the nation. He called his presence on Jasna Góra a sacred habit developed by the faith of generations, confirmed by the Christian experience of so many centuries, established in his soul. In the following days, the archdiocese of Krakow visited. John Paul II sent his first steps to the cathedral when he arrived in Cracow. He also went to Kalwaria Zebrzydowskiska with this sanctuary felt very strongly connected, and it was since childhood. He spoke here about the mystery of Our Lady, her role in man's life. He also left a call for prayer for all. From Calvary he went to family Wadowice, mentioned his relationship with this city and the people who accompanied him as a child and later. In the afternoon the Pope arrived in Oświęcim. First, he visited the death cell of the blessed Maximilian Kolbe. He prayed in front of the wall of death and celebrated the Holy Mass in the concentration camp. The Pope was moved to talk about the tragedy of this place in the history of the world. He called for this place to be a warning, a warning to all those in power. He said that there was only one road before the world, the way of peace, not the fight and the war. Before the monument to the martyrdom of the nations, he paid tribute to all those who were tormented. The next day he went to New Market. The Holy Father presided here at the solemn Holy Mass, during which he spoke about his relationship with the land, about its special love. He referred to the difficult work of farmers and called for respect for those who work in the field. John Paul connected the issue of field work with the human right to life, from the beginning to the natural death. He particularly emphasized the holiness of human life and demanded respect for it. On the penultimate day of his pilgrimage in Mogile he spoke about the role and importance of the cross of Christ in the Christian's life. He also mentioned his pastoral relationship with New Huta. On the way back, he visited the grave of his parents and brother at the Rakowicki Cemetery. On the last day of his stay in Poland, the Holy Father celebrated the Pontifical Mass of the Jubilee, attended by nearly 2 million believers from all over Poland. The Holy Father was moved to speak about the importance of the message of St. Stanisława. Referring to the sacrament of confirmation and its meaning in the life of a believer, he spoke about the need for moral order in the lives of individuals and people. He called for faith in Jesus Christ, for faithfulness to the Church. A short stay in Poland strengthened the spiritual ties of the Holy Father with his homeland and with the Church from which he came out and which he still wanted to serve through the universal papal ministry. He confessed: "There I will listen, behind the Alps, in the spirit of the bells calling to prayer, especially to the angel of the Lord, and at the same time I will listen to the beating of the hearts of my compatriots." The first visit of the Pope in Poland was an unprecedented event not only during this century, but also throughout the millennium, especially since it was the visit of the Polish Pope, who had a sacred right to continue to feel connected with his people. This unprecedented event was an act of courage on both sides, state power and the Pope. Modern times need such a testimony, in which the will to draw close to the nations takes place. The Holy Father was expected in Poland by state and ecclesiastical authorities and broad social circles... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] Now, wait a minute. If you don't mind, just one more minute. [[It's just a minute.]] Regardless of religious and social beliefs, the expected visit was a unique event in over a thousand years of Polish history. Due to the importance of John Paul II's first pilgrimage to Poland, it is important to keep returning to Poland, to read the texts of the Holy Father, to meditate on them. They contain deep content, which should inspire generations of Poles to be good, responsible for the Church and their homeland. The 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage for this year should be an opportunity for us to lean on its great spiritual wealth. Thank you very much. Sorry about the extension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u134	It's okay. Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that today we decide to commemorate this important historical sequence from the first pilgrimage of John Paul II in Poland to various kinds of changes, important political and democratic changes in Poland. However, I would like to apologize to everyone for wanting to share with you a more personal reflection on this event, which is referred to in the first part of the title of the resolution, which we will take. 40 years ago, I was 20 years old. For the first time... Well, already before, being involved in some public affairs, more or less underground, and also in various demonstrations, I've always seen how little we were, how difficult it was, how dangerous it was. And then, June 2, 1979, for the first time after crossing the taboos... That's the way to put it. I don't know how many there were. Those were thousands of people dressed in suits with a mermaid in a flap. It was their trademark. They were almost as many as us pilgrims. After crossing the cordon around the then Square The victories of me and a lot of other people have seen how many of us there are. And of course later, when we attended the Holy Mass and listened to the words of the Holy Father, who called on the Holy Spirit to descend upon us all, we realized that everything was possible. And we're on our way to work. It was something really amazing. Today we talk about the generation of young people Well, not so young nowadays, born in the 1980s. That this is the JPII generation. I am always opposed to this statement, because I believe that the generation of JPII is just us, sixty-year-olds, people who grew up when the Pope first appeared in Poland. I think that for many here and for many who are outside this room, John Paul II is the most important figure among those we know and know. And it's probably gonna stay that way forever. Of course, this pilgrimage changed everything, but another one that... I must say, sharing my personal experience, that then, right after this Holy Mass at Victory Square, my dad and I went on a pilgrimage of trains. As far as we could, we chased the Pope. We've been everywhere, in New Market, in Mogile, everywhere we can. It was something quite wonderful. During this pilgrimage, and also during the next one, the Holy Father demanded respect for the rights, among others. rights of working people, rights of family, rights to life for all. Those were very important things. At the same time, he made it clear that we had a duty to respect values. I think this is what is worth remembering from teaching John Paul II. Today the world is becoming more and more a world of powers, and in fact one step must be taken back and see what all this results from. Values, commitments, that's what's more important. To conclude, I would like to say that for me personally the most important was another pilgrimage, in 1987, when also... Those words are still in my ears. I was at the meeting of the Holy Father with the youth at Westerplatte, when he talked about the fact that everyone has tasks that need to be done, things that cannot be fought for, the responsibilities that need to be fulfilled, and that they must not be deserted. This is, of course, a loose quote. It's something that kind of obliges us. I think that apart from mentioning John Paul II, it is worth seeing these words in terms of commitment. I have no doubt that we Poles have received more, and therefore we are committed to ourselves, but also to Europe, to the world, to give more, to pass on to others. John Paul II must be remembered, it must be mentioned, it must be reminded of historical facts, which are increasingly historical, but first of all you must remember what he has told us, and at least some of these words should be passed on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I could not spare myself the joy of speaking, for I knew the Holy Father as a cardinal. Wojtyła, in student times, when he came to meetings in the academic pastoral ministry of Bekka, at that time illegal. It was led by Father Tomasz Pawłowski, Dominican, in the famous Dominican church near the Krakow market. I remember the Holy Father as a man of great sensitivity and care. At the time when he was coming to meetings, and as a rule, these were token meetings held just after Christmas and at the beginning of the New Year, he showed great concern and interest in us, little students at that time, who could celebrate it, and even more so such a great cardinal, the ecclesiastical ruler as Fr. Card. Charles Wojtyla. It was a significant feature of his personality. This personality can be fully understood when reading the works that he had written before he became Pope, and these are fundamental works in terms of anthropology, i.e. "Person and act," and "Love and Responsibility." If we are wondering why the crowds, millions of people loved him, we can see that perhaps because as rarely as he understood man, he knew who man was, he treated him as the one, unique reality, as a person created in God's image and likeness. And that was always his approach to all matters, whether they were the affairs of the Church or the issues of great politics. After all, we cannot hide the fact that he is considered a creator, one might say, the end of the most cruel system, which was the communist system. It is said that he, as the spiritual leader of the Catholic Church, on the one hand, and Ronald Reagan, on the other hand, led to the end of this communist system. In every situation he approached man individually, with love, even those who were on the opposite side when it came to thinking and value. Since we are talking about the arrival of the Holy Father on his first pilgrimage to Poland, I will mention an episode which also proves such an approach with some kind of humor. Namely, when he was presented to him by the diplomatic corps and communist state nobles, he met a former secretary of the PZPR Voivodeship Committee in Krakow, a class companion. He greeted him warmly and said: and you see, sir, I knew that we would finally meet. This was a reference to the situation when he sought to meet this classmate on the establishment of a longer procession during the time of God's Body and the same companion had no time, he constantly had some excuses and said that he could not meet yet. Eventually, Comrade Class met him as the Pope and the Pope reminded him of his attitude, his behaviour. All this attitude of the Holy Father, his way of thinking, already presented in these works, which I mentioned, then found their development in his encyclicals, where he always dealt with the human being. Well, even the first encyclical published by him, Redemptor hominis, or later other encyclicals, equally important, which pointed to the duality of man as a being, on the one hand, rational, and on the other hand, a believer, I mean the encyclical of Fides et ratio. What I was talking about, the essence of human understanding, and at the same time great respect for it, gave the Holy Father such great appreciation among people. Hence, we often remember his beautiful words, actually derived from Christian personalism, especially from the thought of Gabriel Marcel, that man should always remember to be more than to have. And he repeated these words very often, also at meetings with students, at a famous meeting at the Rock, when the students moved a huge cross a few kilometers from the Rock to the student city, when he actually conquered the hearts of the students. And that's why today, when we're witnessing a different kind of manipulation, a different kind of pseudo-inventions that people are trying to create, about the various issues of human freedom. Of course, man is very free, the Holy Father reminded us that he is so free that he can even say to God that it is worth remembering those words in which he reminded us of our dignity and in which he told students that they should demand of themselves even when no one requires of them. It is worth remembering this teaching of the Holy Father in this day, when you try to create various kinds, as I say, inventions, various kinds of theories about what human love is supposed to be about, when it is said that it is not a marriage, that it is not a relationship between men and women, or when various kinds of inventions are created related to religious freedom, which, according to some, is supposed to lead to the admissibility of even outrageous acts, which we have witnessed in the last few days. Therefore, I would like to remind you that this teaching of the Holy Father has timeless value and proves one thing: that the most important thing for man is the matter of the spirit. Not what Stalin, who asked how much the pope had, who wanted to conquer the world, compared to those he had as the head of the power of the Soviet Union, is important, but the words of the Holy Father are important, but the matter of the spirit is more important, because this man, who did not have one cannon, caused the collapse of the communist system and at the same time the awakening of faith among hundreds of millions of people in the world. And that's worth remembering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u138	Thank you, Senator. Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is good that the Senate will adopt this important resolution on John Paul II, the greatest Pole and great saint, but not only the greatest Pole. We remember how the whole world stopped in 2005 when John Paul II left, and we remember 1989 when half of Europe changed. Of course, 40 years ago, this first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland changed our beloved homeland. You could paraphrase words from Wadowice: just during this first pilgrimage it all began And the solidarity began, and the moral renewal of the nation began, and the religious renewal began, and the construction of a new man began. Of course, on June 16, 1978 it was a moment of choice, but this pilgrimage lifted us up from our knees, showed us how many we are, showed us that 1 million people could gather, disperse, do it calmly and in amazement. Although 5 people could argue and argue in line, 1 million people could come and go in peace. Of course, then came martial law, all that he carried, and many different tragedies. Then it was 1989 and these changes were assessed differently... I had a chance to be close to the cardinals. Wojtyła already since 1966. There's a lot to talk about. Then I took part in all the pilgrimages and was in Rome during the funeral, during the beatification, during the canonization. But maybe we should also talk about the youth story. I remember the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland, which as a Boy Scout I experienced very much. There was no Boy Scout on this pilgrimage tour, maybe some random one, but I didn't see any Boy Scout. This burning sail brought its fruits not only in the form of The Conspiracy Scouting Meeting at Jasna Góra and this message to young people at the time of the Jasna Góra Apel: I feel responsible, that is, I feel responsible for this joint, great heritage, whose name is Poland, and 4 years later in Tarnów again the Congress of Conspiracy Scouting and there on the hands of John Paul II Girl Scouts and Scouts took a scouting oath. Many of them submitted it to socialism, and there, in Tarnów, when during the procession with gifts, the Holy Father received plaques with the text of the Scouting Promise, the commentator read, and the Girl Scouts and Girl Scouts in the Scouting Sector and in the Medical and Order Services repeated the words: "to serve God, Poland and others." Then, of course, there was a meeting with the youth at Westerplatte. I also had a chance to be at a scouting bonfire in Castel Gandolfo. These meetings were many, messages were many, but in difficult times I most often recall this dramatic speech by John Paul II in Kielce, when he spoke about the family, for the first time and only in Poland he was screaming, almost broke that microphone that he was holding, and said that he could not care less, it could not not hurt him, because it is his mother, this land, because it is his mother, this homeland. Of course, you can ask what's left of it today. For a lot of people, there's a lot left. That is why it must continue in us and we must defend the good name of John Paul II with all our self. First we ourselves, then others around us. Let us draw from his teaching, but also build up generations to come, let us give them this great message concerning the love of God and his homeland. God bless you! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! I particularly address you because I will be with the part of the text that has been presented, and I will argue with you. This draft resolution actually describes two events: one of 1979... and about the description of this event, i.e. John Paul II's visits to Poland, and the consequences of this visit, I think we all agree in this Chamber. Besides, the voices of the predecessors showed that we have a very similar view. But there is also the second part of this resolution, which describes 4 June 1989. The other part of the text is smoothed, so I'd call it. This is the case if the events that we describe from the point of view of history have happened relatively recently are imminent and have an impact on current events. 'Cause then we have a choice or we have the whole truth. It's usually not simple, it's complicated, as life is complicated at all, it has many different aspects and it's hard for everyone to accept it all at once. Or talk about events in a way I would call it, light, so smooth, so that everyone can vote for such a truth, politically correct. But I think that here in the Senate, we are responsible and, to some extent, predisposed to tell the whole truth. If the whole thing, it means not half. Not only what is politically correct, it is not only what is nice to hear for all parties. Let's face it: it's a political conflict, because history, the closer it gets. To us, the more it turns into politics. What do I want to talk about? Namely, 4 June 1989. They say it was. I'll quote you. Partly free elections to the Sejm... So? And, of course, completely free elections to the Senate. The first statement: the nation in these elections won in a non-apelative way. I don't know why you don't just say it. The nation voted 99% for the Senate, and 100% for the Sejm, which means that the election result was devastating. I have not heard of other such democratic elections. If we assume that this part of us, let's call it, the election was democratic... There was, although there were orders of ordination, which slightly broke this democracy. Well, I haven't heard that in any free democratic election, the score is 99:1. Maybe somebody's gonna fix me up. I'm not talking about the so-called elections. Communists who weren't actually elections. It was the nation's victory. And then what happened? Well, as part of this victory, Regardless of the results of the Senate elections, a national list was also considered or crossed out to the Sejm. As a result, only 2 out of 35 people on this national list entered the Lower House, the Sejm. And during these elections, the rules changed between the first and second rounds, the ordination changed. I don't know any other such choices in the world either. Ordinations can be very different, democratic, less democratic, not democratic at all, as it was in the time of the commune. But I haven't heard about the change in ordination during the election. Perhaps the professor will correct me. For two reasons, these elections were unique. Because of such a crushing victory and such a clear attempt to adjust the results, by changing the ordination to pre-intended goals, that is simply interfering in elections during the democratic process. And what did social leadership do then? That's what I'm gonna call it. He knew what the results were. It had to choose either to stand with the nation, or to say directly to the communist side: "We are beginning to rule, to rule fully, because this is how the nation decided in the elections, or to stand behind the adversaries, behind the communist side, or to go to... I am not talking about force issues, confrontational issues. ... Agree to change the ordination in progress. And that's how it was done. The change of ordination during the course caused the right number of people from the circles of communist power and its satellites to enter the lower chamber. The question is, was it worth it? How did this result in the future, for the next 30 years? I can't answer that question in one sentence. Or in such a short statement. Surely there will be written works on what was the impact of that very decision at that time. Because it was a decision: either yes or yes. At that time, the social side Not all of it, of course, but most of it, i.e. Those Who Managed It It stated that it would keep to the Round Table agreements. And then it was just downhill. Because then there was the president's election, I remind you, indirect elections. The National Assembly chooses in front of the eyes, so to speak, the crowd, in front of the people, in front of the observing gene society. Jaruzelski to the President of the Republic of Poland, who, by casting invalid votes, intentionally cast invalid votes. This is the continuation of this first decision on the acceptance of the national list or the amendment of the rules when selecting the national list. Then one side is solved. There is no PZPR, there is no other party with whom the agreement was signed, and yet this agreement exists. And the completion of that is the same date, which is June 4th, but about 3 years later. Then the chosen other House, the other Sejm, takes the side of the informers. The coalition of fear calls off the first democratic government elected in the first elections, i.e. the first democratic elections, fully democratic. That's the result. It started with accepting changes in the national list choices, ending fortunately inefficiently with the continuation of history. On cancellations after less than six months of government sleep. Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. And that's what's not here in the text of this resolution. That's what I'm missing, Professor. That would be the whole truth. Of course, in a much larger summary, perhaps in one sentence. This 4 June 1989 may be the victory of the nation, but then the elites who represented this nation, as I say, from the social side 'Cause I'm not saying the communists represented anyone but themselves and their families. They didn't stand up to the task, they chose wrong. And that should be in this text. How to vote on the whole thing? Half good, half bad. We'll see at the vote. And last but not least... Well, there's a reason for that, June 4th. Apart from... the reason that it could be June 4th, which is partly free elections, is, of course, the pilgrimage of the Pope. And the reason that this was the case on June 4th is the Round Table. Just June 4 was born in sin, in the sin of the Round Table. That's the way to put it. Of course, it's a matter of judgment, but I hope that knowing more facts... Although I think it's all clear, Magdalena... We've seen it. We can evaluate it ourselves. It doesn't have to be that way. Named, a professional camera historian. That could be an ordinary man's assessment. I think that conceived in the sin of the Round Table on June 4, 1989, did not serve our independence very well. The question is where Poland would have been if it had not been on 4 June 1989 and how changes would have taken place. 'Cause they would be. Which way... [[Time, Senator, time...]] That's what time will keep us informed. We already know more or less what the truth was. Let us hope that this truth will in no way be masked or adapted to the current political game. And yet Poland is developing, whether slower or... I hope that this development will be faster and faster, especially now, after these last years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u142	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am in a hurry to explain that a significant part of the argument, which I hope will help the senator to vote in favour of this resolution and the argument which will become an explanation of your doubts, is included in these specific words: The former camp of Solidarity will win a spectacular victory in the free elections to the Senate, and in the contractual elections to the Sejm he won all the mandates for authentic competition. The defeat of the Communists opened the way for reconstruction. Whether this Communist disaster, which opened the way for reconstruction, was used by us, is a completely different question for a different circumstance, Mr. Senator. Here we wanted to highlight clearly the causal link between John Paul II and what he did and what happened in 1989. So there's a chance. The nation responded to this opportunity in the June 4 elections, as you said, Senator. The question is, did we, Poles living then take advantage of this opportunity? This is a historical issue, very important. To this day, historians, experts in politics, are discussing this subject. The case, of course, is not suitable to be presented here in the form of a lecture, because it is not a place for historical lectures here, but I want to remind you, Mr. Senator, that the world of that time, this spring, which is about to become summer 1989, is not autumn 1989. This is a completely different time. This is the time of the experiment and therefore the continuing revolution. Perhaps the camp of Solidarity has gone astray. As a historian, I think he's really lost his way. But not then, not on June 4, 1989. Not then, in terms of the national list and the violation of the electoral order, because we agree on the facts. In the autumn of 1989, the camp of Solidarity clearly did not understand that it was no longer June 1989, but autumn, November, December 1989. Those events in Central and Eastern Europe have genuinely opened the way to full freedom and independence. But in June, we couldn't know that yet. Why couldn't we have known about this? First of all, because everything indicates that it was under American-Soviet control. Under control, I repeat, American-Soviet. It was not only the Soviets who controlled the reality here, in Poland, on the principle of control of the Round Table and what is to come out of it. The Americans were also not interested in any revolutionary activities in Poland. They wanted Gorbachev to get out of this experiment, not get out. The people of Solidarity were evidently self-limiting because they feared that they might lose this hope of opening, because there was also no knowledge of how this whole security apparatus and party apparatus, which for a moment entrusted the team of Jaruzelski and Kiszczak, would behave. But, to be blunt, this communist background said in 1989, at the beginning of this year unambiguously: We have harmed people of solidarity, we have murdered, beaten, put into prisons in the name of your authority, and so what? And now you're getting along with them? What about us? What about us? You left us. In June 1989 it was not known... Today we know what kind of reaction would have occurred if this agreement had not been reached, very fragile, on 4 June 1989. Working in the IPN, I read the materials concerning the beginning of July 1989, the proscription lists for possible use by a political factor that would like to reinstate martial law. Esbecia was ready with those letters because she was interested. It is not that the authority of that time was clearly written out in the formula of what we know, even after a few weeks, at the end of August, in September 1989. This world of 1989 was incredibly dynamic. And it seems to me that what we can say to ourselves today and what we can all agree on is that there is a cause and effect relationship between the arrival of John Paul II in Poland in 1979 and all the good things that happened in 1989, while all the bad things that happened, yes, have happened, but we do not owe it to John Paul. II. So the resolution has a completely different logic. Let us leave disputes concerning unused 1989 chances for another circumstance. I repeat: in my opinion, undoubtedly in the autumn of 1989, a part of the OKP with Prof. Bronisław Geremek led by the conclusion that there is a better project in the form of a combination of forces between the reformers of the PZPR and the part of the Solidarity Party, so as to continue in a certain contract of the Round Table, which will be a better system solution than full democracy. But it was not in June that the decision was taken, it was in the autumn of 1989. And that may be our drama, but certainly not that we couldn't understand everything at the beginning of 1989 because we couldn't. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u144	Thank you, Senator. Senator Robert Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u145	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator Radziwił, full agreement that the definition of the generation of John Paul II should be broader, but actually, as far as the sphere of awareness-building is concerned, shifted earlier to those who are already fifty - or 60-year-olds. I remember those events from 40 years ago, because I was 15 years old at the time, and I experienced it very much when the Pope came to us, to Gniezno. Senator Cichoń spoke earlier today about those divisions that Stalin asked Churchill about, how many divisions the Pope has. We saw these divisions all over Poland. In fact, there was a limited message on TV, because crowds were not shown, rather the celebration was shown, but those who participated in it on the spot saw it. And these emotions, which are unforgettable and wonderful, connect us, because this is a very strong element of our Polish identity. I would also like to remind you that today, on the day when this resolution is adopted, the thirty-eightth anniversary of the death of Cards has passed. Stefan Wyszyński, the man who saved Poland from the communist experiment, because he managed to preserve the Catholic faith and everything that then, just after 1979, after this great pilgrimage, exploded in Poland a year later. But I will not be developing the subject of the past here today, I just want to draw attention to the present and to the fact that not so long ago it seemed to me that some authorities in Poland In particular, John Paul II is indisputable and should not be discussed, at least in public space. But the events of the last weeks, the days show that they are not. If someone is closely following what is happening in Poland, he sees how much the Polish society changes and how much it wants to... Maybe it doesn't come from the inside of the community, but it comes from some kind of engineering that works, too. So he sees that he wants to transform everything into a very secular one, even a Liberty one. And he sees that unfortunately these sanctities, which for Catholics, but also for many Poles of non-believers, are indisputable .. such as John Paul II....are being violated. I think he's coming... I think it's gonna get worse that the times are gonna come. It's not long now. We will have to defend these authorities very strongly, headed by John Paul. II. There was Pope Pius XII. If anybody knows a little bit about history, he knows how much he contributed to saving Jews, helping them to try to motivate, including Catholic priests, to help others. And then all it took was one piece, titled "The Governor," to change the views on this great pope. This speech of mine is kind of a warning, which might happen soon. And we just have to be with our pope and stay awake. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. Now I'm asking for messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Message one. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications submitted at the 70th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, the Act on the Organisation and Functioning of Pension Funds and the Act on Banking Law will take place today immediately after the announcement of the interruption in the sitting in room 217. Message two. The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure on the consideration of the requests submitted during the debate to the Act amending the National Property Resources Act and some other laws will take place today at 4 p.m. in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u148	Thank you very much. And I'm announcing a recess until 5:00 p.m. At 5:00 a.m. vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 52 to 17 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u149	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the order of the next 80th Senate meeting convened on 4 June 2019 has already been provided to you with information about the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the first free elections to the Senate. Detailed organizational information, e.g. on the Holy Mass, as well as on the seats occupied by the senators in the Column Hall at the Senate meeting, you will be provided by electronic means. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 1188. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted today unanimously the draft resolution of the Senate and recommends that the High House adopt this proposal. I'll read it. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on changes in the composition of Senate committees: Senate of the Republic of Poland on the basis of art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. There you go.]] ...calls Senator Tadeusz Kopcia from the Infrastructure Commission. The Senate of the Republic of Poland elects Senator Tadeusz Kopcia to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u151	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any calls. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 Senators voted 79 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices and certain other laws. The Health Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested that this law be adopted without amendment. It's a senate print No 1187 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 71 votes against, no one opposed, 11 abstentions. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Refund Act on Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices and on certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson. The Health Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of a law without amendment. It's a senate print No 1177 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We're waiting for the results. Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsman. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, the Act on the Organisation and Functioning of Pension Funds and the Law on Banking Law. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 1181 A. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u152	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the joint committees which have met today, propose that the bill be adopted without amendment by 8:4 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u153	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? The senators Mieczysław Augustyn, Kazimierz Kleina, Leszek Czarnobaj and Jan Rulewski submitted their conclusions during the discussion. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 60 for, 27 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 57]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, the Act on the Organisation and Functioning of Pension Funds and the Law on Banking Law. We would like to return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law of the Family and Welfare Code and the Law of the Civil Procedure Code. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print Nos 1176 A and 1176 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Family and Care Code and the Civil Procedure Code. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the law on cooperative law. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate print No 1180 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 85 votes against, 2 abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 59]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the law on cooperative law. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Code of Administrative Procedure. The Legislative Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to the Senate Print No 1178 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 60]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law of the Administrative Procedure Code. We are returning to the 11th item of the agenda: the Act on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act "Senatski Print No 1179 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety will be adopted, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendments 1 and 8 on which we will vote together, in line with the intention of the legislator, point to the use of things rather than their use, which will allow us to correctly interpret the definition of technology of military or police use and to update the business plan correctly in the event of a threat to life, health or property. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 61]] Amendment 2 complements the catalogue of decisions on concessions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome... Not yet, right? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all senators voted yes. [[Voting No 62]] Amendments 3, 7, 16, 18, 19 and 23 should be voted together. These amendments, Nos 3, 7, 16, 18, 19 and 23, delete unnecessary parts of the guidelines for the regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 4 is linguistic in nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Oh, my God, you're rushing, Mr. Marshal.]] But they're keeping up, everyone's keeping up, Mr. Senator, and so are you. So congratulations. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 5 extends the mandate to issue a regulation so that the competent minister can determine the scope of the opinions issued by the specifically identified institutions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 86 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 65]] Amendments 6, 15 and 17 should be voted together. Amendments 6, 15 and 17 take into account the terminology of the Penal Code by making adequate reference to liability for false statements, not false statements. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 86 votes for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 66]] We are now voting on Amendments 9, 10, 11 and 12. We will vote on them together. These amendments harmonise the terminology of the Act, indicating the scope of the attestations on the deprivation of performance of weapons other than firearms and military or police weapons, and modify the authorisation to issue the Regulation so that the competent minister can determine the extent to which specific authorised entities issue the relevant certificates. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 13 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 14 updates the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 20 regulates the rules by correctly referring to the essential components, not the essential parts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 21 includes criminal sanctions for the failure of traders to carry out information obligations vis-à-vis their counterparties and not to the police authorities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 22 deletes the provision which is an unnecessary repetition of the solutions adopted by the Public Finance Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 24 corrects, in the legislation on explosives intended for civil use, the erroneous reference to the registration of small arms. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 25 clarifies the obligation on traders Before the date of entry into force of the provisions concerning the Weapons Registration System, to provide information on the sale of small arms to the competent police commander. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 74]] Amendments 26, 27, 29 are voted on together. These amendments regulate the provisions relating to the separate entry into force of the provisions on the Arms Registration System. Amendment 29 complements the catalogue of provisions for separate entry into force. Amendments 26 and 27 correctly maintain the existing regulation on the basis of provisions to enter into force at a later date. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 75]] Amendment 28 allows for the correct transmission, during a transitional period, by traders of information related to the Arms Registration System and then by the competent minister, within the time limit laid down by law, of the data necessary for access to the system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 76]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 85 in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 77]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the execution of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. Mrs. Marshal, may I have your attention, please? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u154	Quiet, please. Quiet. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on National Property Resources and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 1185 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Today, the joint committees have considered all 16 amendments and recommend that the High Senate adopt all 16 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u156	Okay, thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 81 were in favour, no one was against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 78]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 deletes a provision that does not give new substance to the amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 79 were in favour, 2 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 79]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 83 were in favour, no one was against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 80]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 4, 7 and 13 will be voted together. They aim at adapting the procedure and competence for resolving disputes concerning the exclusion of immovable property from the stock to the procedure for resolving disputes concerning the transfer of immovable property to the National Property Resource. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 83 were in favour, no one was against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 81]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 5 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 83 were in favour, no one was against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 82]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 83 were in favour, no one was against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 83]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 8 and 15 will be voted together. They aim to align the standards for the location and implementation of housing investments in the area of preschool education and in schools for future residents of these investments with the provisions of the Law on Education. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 81 were in favour, no one was against, four senators abstained. [[Voting No 84]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendments 9 and 10 will be voted together. They harmonise terminology, predicating that the transformation takes place in respect of buildings built with residential buildings and associated buildings, and eliminates possible interpretation doubts as to the object of the patronage. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 82 were in favour, no one was against, and four senators abstained. [[Voting No 85]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 11 aims to eliminate from among persons entitled to a higher increase of persons remaining on a joint holding with a disabled person. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 82 were in favour, no one was against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 86]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 12 aims to ensure that the highest percentage in force in the year in which the presentation took place can be used in real terms when the conversion certificates are issued and delivered after 30 November 2019. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 79 were in favour, no one was against, and four senators abstained. [[Voting No 87]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 14 introduces the correct reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 80 were in favour, no one was against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 88]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 16 introduces the correct reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 81 were in favour, no one was against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 89]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 86 senators, 63 votes against, 22 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 90]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on National Property Resources and some other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Family Benefits. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print no. 1016 S. The committees also ask that the Senate authorise Senator Jan Rulewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 35 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 91]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has not adopted a resolution on the submission of a draft law to the Sejm and has therefore concluded its proceedings in this case. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland and on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of Poland. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 1169 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution contained in print No 1169 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 Senators voted 79 in favour, no one voted against, two Senators abstained. [[Voting No 92]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland and on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and partially free elections to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 70th Senate meeting has been exhausted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please... Anyone who has to leave, please do so, because now there will be statements, so I'd like to keep the courtroom quiet. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, On 29 March, the deadline for submitting applications for the "Bridges for the Regions' programme expired. The aim of the programme was to complement the local road infrastructure with missing bridge connections. The government allocated PLN 2 billion 300 million to the programme and introduced very favourable financing rules with support from the state budget of 80% the value of the investment. Unfortunately, of the list of 21 bridges recommended in the government programme, only 7 were submitted for implementation. Among others there is a bridge on the Elbląg River in Nowakowo, a bridge on which the economic success of another strategic investment, i.e. the construction of a channel by measure depends. Let me remind you that these bridges were to be given priority as important from the perspective of national policy objectives. The failure to implement the bridge in Nowakow stems from the principle accepted in the program that the applicant cannot be a city on the rights of the county. In this situation, the only beneficiary may be Elbląg, which owns the port of Elbląg. This is the only limitation in the field of basic local government units and, as it turns out, excluding from the programme a very important investment. Therefore, I would like to propose a modification of the programme for the regions by deleting from Chapter 1.4 of that programme the exclusion of cities on the rights of the county. I would also ask that the deadline for submitting applications be extended so that new conditions can be taken advantage of by local authorities such as the city of Elbląg. I am convinced that in order to achieve the objectives of building the channel by measuring, which cost is estimated to be PLN 1.3-1.5 billion, it is worth to correct the programme of Bridges for the regions. Another statement. The statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, Preparations are underway for the implementation of a large investment project, the result of which is the creation of a network of high-speed rail connections of more than 100 most important urban centres of Poland with the Central Communication Port. Unfortunately, there is a clear hole in the network between Olsztyn and Gdansk, where Elbląg was found. It is the only city over 100 thousand and almost the only former voivodship city that will not be covered by this strategic investment. It is a city which in government economic strategies is treated as the fourth port of the Republic of Poland and which for this reason is covered by transport investments worth more than PLN 1 billion. Their implementation must result in an increase in the economic and tourist attractiveness of the city and the entire subregion of Vistula Lagoon. Perhaps because these developmental investments, including mainly the channel by measure, are only in realization, the development potential of Elbląg has not been noticed by the railway network workers. I think it is possible and reasonable to extend to Elbląg line 2 connecting Warsaw and the Central Communication Port with Olsztyn or, as was done for other lines, the introduction of an additional branch during the current connection Department ..Iława.. Malbork and further to Elbląg. In both of these options, the connection with Kaliningrad would be much more effective from the perspective of exploiting the potential of the Central Communication Port than in the Tczew option. Please consider this concept positively and whether the proposed options or other options to include Elbląg in the core high-speed rail network are feasible and will be analysed. One more thing, Mrs. Marshal. I'll make it. [[Please.]] The statement is also addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, The Polish government engages huge resources, about PLN 30 billion, in the construction of the Via Carpatia route, which is intended to activate the eastern regions of Poland by location on the so-called. the wall of the eastern transport link between the Baltic Sea and the Mediterranean Sea. Unfortunately, this development link will communicate with the south of Europe the Lithuanian port of Klaipeda at the expense of our ports in Gdańsk, Gdynia and Elbląg. It will also make the Lithuanian port attractive for investors of the new Silk Road, which can bypass our country and our maritime and multimodal ports. At the same time, the Polish government in 2017, adopting the AGN Convention, began to implement an inland link between Gdansk and Elbląg with the ports of the Black Sea. The cost of this investment is also estimated at about PLN 30 billion. According to economists and the management of the port in Gdańsk, these 2 projects are mutually exclusive. It would be reasonable to combine Via Carpatia with Polish ports, not with Lithuania. Following the adoption of this concept, the economic strengthening of the eastern wall, including Białystok, Lublin, Rzeszów, would be achieved with strengthening of Polish ports and achieving economic viability of the inland connection of MDW E40 Gdansk, Elbląg, Bydgoszcz, Warsaw to the Black Sea. Also with the use and development of nearly finished connections, i.e. expressway S7 and for years designed Via Hanseatica or Via Intermare. Please inform: whether the government is aware of the economists' reservations; whether the impact of the construction of Via Carpatia on the economic validity of the E40 waterway and on the attractiveness of the ports of Tricity and Elbląg has been considered; whether the possibility of coupling the development of Polish ports, MDW E40 and transport routes associated with the modified Via Carpatia route has been analysed. I ask for an economic analysis of Via Carpatia's undertaking in terms of its harmfulness to the development of Polish ports and transport routes, and for an analysis of the benefits of the connection between Via Carpatia and Tricity ports and Elbląg port. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u158	Thank you, Senator. And now, please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. My first statement is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. In expressing my appreciation to the Territorial Defence Army, I ask the Minister for information on the total participation of the Polish Army, including the Territorial Defence Forces, in actions to counter the negative effects of floods and submersions that occurred in our country in May. Second Statement To the Minister of Justice. In view of the fact that the Gdansk Public Prosecutor's Office initiated proceedings concerning the Fifth Tri-City Equality March in violation of religious feelings, and in view of the increasing aggression and symbolic and emotional violence in relation to the Catholic Church, people of faith, religious symbols in the country, I kindly ask the Minister to inform you of how many similar proceedings are under your office in the country at this moment, what are the situations and in which cities. And a third statement. To the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In connection with the information of the newspaper "Haaretz" on the arrival of a delegation from the Israeli Government, which deals with, among others, the issues of property in Poland, in mid-May, I ask the Minister whether during the stay of this delegation there were any meetings with representatives of the Polish State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. Senator Secretary, please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u161	The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media to carry out the first reading of the bill establishing the 4th June 1989 election anniversary of the Holy of Freedom and Civil Rights will be held tomorrow, i.e. May 29th, 8.30 p.m. in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-28-senat-79-2.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 70th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Office of Senate Works, room 255. The 70th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 18 minutes 04]]
