ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u1	I open the second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Waldemar Sługocki to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Waldemar Sługocki. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 80th meeting on 4 July 2019, adopted part of the Senate's amendments to the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws and all amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Civil Procedure and some other laws. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the 7th and 7th meetings, I declare that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 70th and 80th Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the second point of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's report on the amendment of the Commercial Companies Code and certain other laws has been submitted at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Senator Rybicki.]] [[No, no. I'm sorry. I'm not objecting.]] Again, because I heard something. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the Act amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competitions and consider it as item two of the agenda; law... I'll be numbering them. If there's any votes, I'm asking you to address a specific point. The first is a law on the amendment of the Act on Nursing and Midwives Competitions, the second law on investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum... [[Objection.]] But it's not now. [[I object.]] I'll ask that question later. Mr. Senator will object at the right time and tell you which point he's reporting. I haven't even read the point yet. Investment Act in the field of the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939. The branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdansk. I propose that it be considered as item three of the agenda. The next item is the law on the system of development institutions. I propose to consider this item as item 5 of the agenda, after the point on the Law amending the Commercial Companies Code. That's three. Four. Act amending certain laws to limit payment congestion. I propose that this item be considered as item six of the agenda. Five. Act amending the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight and certain other laws. I propose we consider this point as point eight. Six. Act amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and certain other laws. I propose that it be considered as item nine of the agenda. Seven. Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. I propose that it be considered as item 10 of the agenda. Eight. Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Family Benefits and the Act on Health Care Benefits financed by public funds. I propose to consider this point as point 11. Nine. Act amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws. I propose that we consider this item as item 12 of the agenda. Ten. Act amending the Law on the maintenance of cleanliness and order in municipalities and certain other laws. I propose to consider this item as item on the 15th agenda, after the point on the Act amending the Law on Nuclear Law. Eleven. Act amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws. I propose that it be considered as item 16 of the agenda. Twelve. The Act amending the Energy I propose to consider this item as item 18 on the agenda. Thirteen. Act on the amendment of the Act on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. I propose that we consider this item as item 19 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. There's an objection. Mr. Senator, please tell us which point he is referring to, whether everyone, or one or more or less of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The opposition concerns the third point, i.e. the law on investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939, the Branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk. I request that this point not be brought into order by reference to the article. Paragraph 34 (2) of the Rules of Procedure: The draft agenda for the Senate shall be decided by the Senate Marshal and only matters known to the senators from the printed matter shall be brought to the agenda no later than 3 days before the meeting. This is a special bill that raises controversy. It is a specialist, and we know that in the history of Polish parliamentarianism the specialty was exceptionally rarely processed and usually concerned investments of public purpose, big investments such as gasport or investments related to Euro 2012. Several hours to get acquainted with the bill is far too little to be responsible for discussing this important, symbolic place for all of us, the Westerplatte peninsula. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u3	Okay, I get it. Then I'll put this to the vote, because I've filed a motion to extend the order, and the senator, as I understand it, is filing a motion... [[It's about not bringing it in.]] Yeah, about not bringing it in. [[This point.]] Yeah, that point. Are there any... We'll have a vote in a minute. Would anyone else like to speak... [[Not putting this on the agenda.]] Excuse me? [[Not putting this on the agenda. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Yeah, it's not on the agenda. I read it, ladies and gentlemen... Let me remind you that I have read the proposal to complete the agenda on the items... These points are 13. Is anyone else objecting? No. Then we'll vote. Who among you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of putting this point in order? I'll read it thoroughly. The Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Wars Investment Act, the Branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdansk and considering it as the third item of the agenda? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 56 for, 24 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] Mr. Senator's objection has been rejected. In addition, I propose that the point concerning the law on the regulation of certain matters should be considered in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union as point seven. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any objection, I find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Hey, guys! I request that the agenda be supplemented by a point on the examination of the report of the Joint Committee on Laws and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the draft law amending the law on family and caring law, the Law on Civil Procedure and the Law on Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority during the committee's deliberations... We're talking about the problem of parental alienation. This is a tragedy that affects thousands of families in Poland every day. The Senate over political divisions, 2 committees by a majority of representatives of both groups proposed work on this law. The main argument for not to proceed was the argument presented at the time. And it's been almost two months. That the Sejm is discussing and working on a similar, if not identical, law. I would like to assure you that this is, at this moment, absolutely not true, because, first of all, we have nothing on the part of the Sejm since these 2 months and it seems that we will have nothing, and secondly, this law regulates these matters completely differently compared to what we have proposed. I repeat once again the majority of both groups. I would very much like to ask you and I would very much ask your marshal to put this point in order. Let's give any signal that we can do something together, first of all. Secondly, let us respect our work, the very hard work we have done here, and let us give the Senate a point where we will do something for the citizens, once again, beyond divisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u5	Thank you very much. Because this is a formal motion, we have to vote on it, because there was no proposal, it wasn't from the meeting... Who's in favor of... Maybe just for the record, I'm filing a motion against... well, maybe in such a way that we have something to vote on. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? About what? [[Did you...]] But not in this case anymore. Now the vote begins. [[Can you justify your request...]] No. [[...just like a friend explained his own?]] Mr. Senator, thank you very much. We proceed to vote, so not to debate, discuss and ask questions. Who's in favor of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[But what are we voting on?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] On the motion... I think everyone was in the O.R., and if anyone wasn't there, I'm gonna ask the neighbor. Senator, we are now voting on Senator Pociej's motion to introduce the item on the agenda: second reading of the draft law amending the law "Family and caring', "Code of Civil Procedure' and "Criminal Code'; Senate Prints No. 776 and 776 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 53 against and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 2]] Would any of your senators like to speak on the matter of order? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 80th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Dear Senators, today at 12:00 p.m., an hour's adjournment will be announced, during which Dr. Hab. Henryk Litwin will give a lecture entitled: the establishment of the Central and Eastern Europe Community in room 217. I invite all senators to listen. I would like to inform the senators that item seven of the agenda: the law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of the agreement will be discussed today after 4 p.m. Today, at the end of the day, we will consider paragraph 20 concerning the second reading of the bill amending the Housing Cooperatives Act. Tomorrow's session starts at 9:00 p.m. and we will start by considering the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office's work in 2018. Tomorrow, at 12:00 p.m., there will be an adjournment until 12:30, during which the exhibition will be opened, the potential of the Vistula River in an economic, social and environmental context. Tomorrow, at 1 p.m., we will consider item 17 of the agenda: the law amending the Road Traffic Law and the Road Transport Act. On the second day of the meeting, we will also consider item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law, and point twenty-second: the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. On Friday, we will resume the session at 9:00 p.m. and start by considering the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2018. The votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. I remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Jan Żaryn and is included in print No 1194, and the report - in print No 1194 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u6	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to you the results of the meeting of the Legislative Committee, which met on 25 June this year. and discussed the draft resolution at its meeting on the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. The project has been discussed and final for today, at this moment the version sounds as it is about to be presented by me. I just want to say two sentences. Firstly, the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles was, of course, 28 June 2019. Secondly, did any of you notice in the media and in any other means of communication that we were experiencing this joyful 100th anniversary of the signing of the treaty, through which... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let's let the senator file a report. Whoever wants to talk, go to the cocksuckers. Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. ...Thanks to whom our independence was guaranteed after 123 years of Poland's absence on the map? I will answer this question immediately for you: none of you may have noticed, because this hundredth anniversary has passed in an unnoticeable way. It's worth wondering why. Without a doubt, we as Poles are interested in talking about the Treaty of Versailles not only contemptuously in the context of the well-known formulas of 1939, transmitted by Wiachesław Molotov, the bastard of the Treaty of Versailles, or by the Third Reich, about the unfair Treaty of Versailles. [[There's still such a disturbing murmur... thank you very much.]] Today's Europe, as well as the European Union, seems not to have grown up to stand firmly against those reviews of the 1939 Versailles Treaty and celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Versailles Treaty between France and Germany. We must therefore do this for Europe, because we are clearly the beneficiaries of that global event. I allow myself to be a little malice, because I think that we, too, as Poles, have certainly not done everything to show Europe and our partners in the European Union that we are clearly interested in the Treaty of Versailles being permanently recorded in historical memory as an arch-positive event for Europe and the world. And since we didn't take care of it ourselves, maybe the Senate will take care of the proper commemoration. Hence the motion for a resolution. Here's what it says. The resolution of the Senate on the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. On 28 June 1919, in the mirror room of the Versailles palace of kings of France, a treaty was signed which formally ended World War I and established peace. Poland, together with more than 20 other countries, was a co-creator of this peace, even though it had returned to the political map of Europe very little earlier. The moment of signing the document was remembered by the correspondent of reborn Poland, Adam Grzymała-Siedlecki: In the alphabetical order of the names of the countries delegates were called to the Treaty book. It took a long time to wait for the letter "P" to come. We heard Clemenceau's voice from the president's chair: La Pologne! They rose from their places Paderewski and Dmowski. [...] Paderewski's face focused, was touched with a kind of embodimented prayer to the holiness of this moment, which he is for Poland. Following this prayer goes Dmowski [...]. ♪ In the eyes, in the eyes ♪ What a joy!!! [...] Like two lights, different in themselves, and at the moment combined in some necessary whole, these two heads carried through the mirror room of Versailles to sign Poland for the first time since time immemorial in the political history of the world. The Paris conference was held since January 1919 and the most important arrangements were a compromise between the conflicting interests of the major powers, namely the USA, the UK and France. The treaty imposed on central states, mainly Germany, and absent from the Russian conference, involved in the revolution, was to be protected by the emerging League of Nations, whose competence was to resolve any dispute between states. The delegates at the conference representing Polish postulates were Roman Dmowski, President of the National Committee of Poland, recognized by the Entent as representing the future Polish state already during the war struggles, and Ignacy Jan Paderewski, world famous composer and pianist, since January 1919 President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. Prime Minister of the United Government of Poland. Although not all Polish border demands were met, it was agreed that thanks to the determination of the Polish delegation and the support of France, we were the biggest beneficiaries of the signed treaty. Although the peace of Versailles has survived for only 20 years, it has become an important document of an era that has made us a state recognised by the international community after more than 120 years of captivity, and the idea of self-determination has become an important value Although sometimes violated in the 20th century, it obliges states to respect the right of others to freedom and sovereignty. On the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles, the Senate of the Republic of Poland honors the Polish delegation representing the Polish state during the Paris Conference in recognition of its merits in the work of regaining independence by Poland. We also express our gratitude to our Western allies, especially French politicians, who host the Paris conference with President Raymond Poincaré in charge. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I have a request that we make an act on the resolution on this subject, and a proposal that copies of this document be sent to the marshal here, Mr. Marshal. . to the embassies of the United States, the United Kingdom and France, may, together with the record of the discussion, if any, or at least with my slightly malicious voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u7	Thank you, Senator. Please remain on the floor for a moment, because now the senators can submit no longer than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant, and this applicant is also Senator Jan Żaryn. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Gawel and other senators signed up for the discussion. You're welcome, Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor, Mr. Senator Żaryn! Of course, this Treaty of Versailles is to be forgotten by Europe, because today it reminds Europe of the failure of its policy during the interwar period. The founding of the Treaty of Versailles, which was signed in June 1919, was the result of World War I. And I would like to remind you that World War I ended with the victory of the Entent, or coalition, but this victory had to be consummated by some countries and realized only during the peace talks. Britain has succeeded at the end of the war: it has eliminated the fleet and the German threat to the British colonies and has weakened the German position in Europe. The United States also achieved its objectives at the end of the war, i.e. under the Treaty signed in Compiègne in 1918. France did not. France, therefore, was very concerned that this treaty should also pursue its strategic objectives, mostly political ones. That's why there were two opponents during the talks. The main opponents were the Prime Minister of the British Government Lloyd George and the Prime Minister of the French Government Georges Clemenceau. I am talking about all this to show the context of the Polish case, because at that time the great success of Polish diplomacy took place also in the context of the politics of powers. We must realise that, after the end of the war, Britain will absolutely not pursue a policy aimed at further weakening Germany. This had consequences for Poland too, because The reconstruction of the Polish state within the limits promoted by the Treaty of Versailles was very difficult, precisely because of the attitude of the UK. The United Kingdom requested that plebiscites be carried out in the disputed areas, mainly in Warmia and Mazury and Silesia. We know that thanks to the uprising of Wielkopolska in Wielkopolska, such a plebiscite was not there. It was similar with the free city of Gdansk, which was also declared German enclave at the request of the British. Practically German, because he was to be subject to the League of Nations, but the majority of the city's inhabitants were Germans. And this Gdansk will later raise big problems, we know that it will become a cause, one of the causes of World War II. So that the complicated international situation affected the negotiating position of Poland at the time of the adoption of the Treaty of Versailles. And you have to remember that. Professor, thank you for this resolution, but I would like to remind you that the Versailles rules did not last 20 years because they fell actually in 1935 when the United Kingdom agreed to remilitaryize the German Rhine, which is when the British simply gave in to the Third Reich politics and agreed to completely break the rules of the Versailles Treaty. The consequences for Britain will then be that... in Munich they were supposed to save honor properly. And neither did they save honor, nor did they prevent war, and the war broke out. Unfortunately, at the expense of Poland. But this is a discussion for another occasion, for another resolution. As for the Polish case, because it is important: Ladies and gentlemen, the Paris conference showed the intellectual level, the patriotic level of the delegation. 2 names, 2 people who need to be reminded here are Ignacy Jan Paderewski, undisputed authority, and Roman Dmowski, a character who until today arouses lively emotions, triggers discussion. Unfortunately, it is very often evaluated today in an ahistorical context, i.e. Today's knowledge, today's political correctness of certain environments makes it impossible for us to properly assess this policy. And his role at the Paris conference was huge. Let me just remind you: On 29 January 1919, at one of the sessions of the Paris Conference, the Polish delegation is to present proposals. Georges Clemenceau, French Prime Minister, says, Mr Dmowski, you have the floor. Dmowski asks: what should I talk about? Clemenceau: about the Polish case. One might ask: was he prepared for this? Yeah, he's been preparing for this his whole life. He's been preparing his whole life for this one big speech. It was in French. The translator translated into English because these were two languages of this conference. At one point, when Dmowski noticed that the translation was inappropriate, he went to English and translated himself, spoke French and translated English. Even the opponents of Dmowski, who described this figure, we know from sources from the early 1920s, from memories connected with the congress. They claimed that this Polish anti-Semita surprised delegations of all countries who sat there. He talked about the Polish case in the context of the state's right. People began to understand the influences of large national communities, including Jewish ones, on this Paris conference, which is important in the world, and that the world is not only made up of truth, not only of what is the essence of a single country's policy. Everyone thinks that Poland is wronged because there were stripping? No, the world is brutal business. And Dmowski showed it. He showed how Poland has preserved its Polishness for more than 120 years and how important Poland is at all on the map of Europe. Many politicians became convinced of the Polish issue thanks to this fiery, big, outstanding speech by Roman Dmowski. And that's something to remember. What else is involved in this resolution? What should I remind you of? It should be recalled that unfortunately not all our border demands have been taken into account and that this conference has been very much interfering in Poland's internal affairs. It's the so-called. a small Treaty of Versailles, i.e. Poland was forced, like other Central European countries, to sign the Treaty on the Protection of National Minorities. And there was a psychic situation, i.e. The Polish minority in Germany was practically without any possibility of appealing to any institution, and the German minority in Poland could complain to the Polish government to the League of Nations. This, of course, caused many tensions, many controversy in this sovereign Polish policy of the interwar 20th anniversary. Finally, I would like to thank you for preparing this text and to show, remind you, that history and what was important in this story requires that today we also draw conclusions, talk about how policy should be pursued. It's not based on sentiment, it's based on reality. And that is what I wish for the Polish government, the present and the next. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u9	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles invites us to look at the two figures that represented Poland and the Polish state right. Roman Dmowski has already mentioned my previous speaker. He was a fantastic man, a huge erudition and culture, and at the same time familiar with many languages, and therefore freely moved in diplomatic circles, directly conducting various conversations and negotiations. He didn't need a translator for that. A friend of mine described this episode beautifully. The second figure was Ignacy Jan Paderewski, who already dreamed of Poland as a boy. Such a specific episode in his life was that as a little boy he dreamed of celebrating the anniversary of the winning battle at Grunwald. In order to do so, he purchased a money box to which he put aside small sums of money so that he could build a Grunwald statue someday. Then, as he became a world-famous pianist, as he made a fortune, and it was possible for him to do so, this dream became a fact. In 1910 in Krakow more than 150 thousand Poles from all partitions arrived to unveil the monument by a great artist, Wiwulski sculptor, who secretly prepared this monument in Paris. In secret, too, he was transported by rail, in parts, and then assembled to surprise even the Austrians themselves, because it was in the Austrian conquest. And the great Ignacy Jan Paderewski did not stop there. Because he was also a polyglotist, a wonderful pianist, he made direct contact with the later president of the United States Wilson. Friendship resulted in the fact that he financed President Wilson's electoral campaign to a large extent, and that when he became President of the United States, as we remember, he gave the famous 14-point message to Congress and at point 13 he stated that the condition for peace in Europe after the war was the rise of independent Poland with access to the sea. What we are all learning at school, this famous message of Wilson, was precisely the basis of this friendship, in the relations that existed between the later Prime Minister of the Republic of Ignacy Jan Paderewski and President Wilson. It's worth mentioning and mentioning these two fantastic characters. At the same time, à propos Paderewski I would like to add that it was probably one of the few politicians who had only the good of Poland in mind. It should be remembered that he came to Poland as a multimillionaire, when he was appointed President of the Council of Ministers, or Prime Minister, and left here, a little disgusted by these misunderstandings, the misunderstandings that were in Poland, actually as bankrupt. He started making a fresh start across the ocean and then, when he settled in Switzerland, he sort of got his life together. Finally, he joined the fight for independent Polish existence during World War II. As we know, he did not live to see the end of this war, but his whole life was marked only by the service of Poland, not by any of his own benefits. And lastly, I would like to add... actually invite, if the marshal permits, to a film that will be displayed today, just about Ignacy Jan Paderewski. There will be a projection in room 217 dedicated to this great patriot. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: What time?]] At 8:30. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u11	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jackowski's voice is yours. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Senator Jan Żaryn very much for initiating this resolution, because during various events related to the process of regaining independence by Poland the date 28 June 2019, i.e. the century of signing the Treaty of Versailles, may have escaped, and this event was quite fundamental to the formation of order in Europe and, above all, guaranteeing independence and independence of the Polish state. Professor Żaryn mentioned this in his speech. It is also worth noting that, at this meeting, it seems that we will also extend the broadcasting of the Medal of Independence, which was set up at the initiative of the President. Why? Because in a fairly common public opinion, Poland regains independence in 1918. On November 11th, Józef Piłsudski became the commander of the army. On November 10 he left the detention in Magdeburg. And Poland was simply created. Well, we know that it was a rather complicated, difficult, long-term process, which in a formal sense continued until June 1922. We will also celebrate the ninety-seventh anniversary. Do I count well? Yes, the ninety-seventh anniversary of joining Upper Silesia to Poland after the third January Uprising... sorry, Silesian. This trial was several years old. The Second Republic faced huge challenges. Different legal systems, different administrative systems, different levels of social development, different levels of economic development, unstabilized boundaries... But there were very bright people, you can say, an extraordinary generation of fathers of our independence... We have this catalogue of the most important, but it's not just them. They were people who just thanks to their cooperation skills. And I can assure you, as a historian, that political disputes at that time were as emotional as ours today, just read the press at that time, just read the speeches, the transcripts from the Legislative Sejm, which was already in session during the Versailles conference, just get acquainted with all this... But one goal pursued most of the elites of that time: to create a stable, independent, independent, free and democratic Republic of Poland. Please note that in the case of the Versailles conference, which we are talking about now, it was important that the two largest political leaders at that time on Polish lands or in Poland, i.e. both Marshal Józef Piłsudski and Roman Dmowski, despite the differences in programming, the different differences that separated them, were able to cooperate at this crucial moment. Roman Dmowski was an official representative of the regaining independence of the Republic. On January 29th, Mr. Senator, my predecessor, gave a famous speech about this. He spoke for 5 hours in French and English, fearing math or misrepresentation, or flattening a subtle argument proving the Polish right to independence, as well as the specific shape of borders. It was of crucial psychological importance. The second element was the arrival, of course already as the prime minister, Ignacy Jan Paderewski, who also represented the Polish state. So it's worth the conference... Well, she did not fully meet all Polish expectations and aspirations, because it meant many potential threats to future order and peace in Europe Senator Gawel was very specific about this. But it was a milestone in building the independence process. Therefore, once again, thank you to Professor Zarin, for all the applicants for the fact that this project has been prepared. That way, the Senate... Well, we are also, as it were, heirs of the Treaty of Versailles, because in the reborn Republic, as we know, a two-room parliament was formed in relation to the tradition of the First Republic. In 1989, in reference to the attributes of the independent Polish state, a two-room parliament was established again in Poland. Therefore, the Senate has a special moral right and duty to celebrate events so important in our latest and not only recent history, but throughout history. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u13	Thank you, Senator. You have the voice of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many historians have written about the Treaty of Versailles and the role of the Treaty of Versailles in rebuilding independence, and the discussion can actually continue until today. Did we gain independence because diplomatic procedures were so effective and the Treaty of Versailles gave us this independence, or did we become independent and armed, Polish weapons in various political constellations we gained this independence? The discussion on this subject that was already ongoing in the pre-war period was political in nature. Well, the soccer team thought it was an act of independence, a national democracy. That it was the Treaty of Versailles that created independent Poland. This prewar discussion was actually very harsh. If I hear that there are very strong controversy at present, in fact, very strong, very sharp... Well, if we read what was written in the press, what was happening in both camps, what was accused of... Treason was accused, the worst was accused, undermining the goodwill of different people and groups. If we read this, we'll see what the proportions are. These proportions from my point of view are still no worse today than at that time. At the moment, the assessment of historians is more balanced. Of course, the fight, legions, what was happening in Polish lands and, above all, the loss of 3 voters, the loss of world war by 3 voters... [[Voices from the hall: The Slayers, the Slayers.]] Conquerors, I'm sorry. Right. [[You're already thinking about the election.]] By three killers. Well, these assassins were already making the election by that time. In Russian grabs. Pride, the Polish club in Austria had functioned much earlier... Elections were also held in the Prussian partition. The war lost by the conquerors in my opinion was the main cause of the creation of a space for the rebirth of Poland, which was used by all. And I would like to say that at the time of signing the Treaty of Versailles, the General National Committee of Roman Dmowski, who was opposed to the actions of Józef Piłsudski, became in accordance with the will or decision of the head of state of Józef Piłsudski, a group negotiating for the Polish authorities, which had already been born in Warsaw and operated since November 1918. The Treaty of Versailles was of course very important, but it also imposed on what had already happened and what had happened in Poland. He didn't deal with the Eastern borders. Although the British proposed the Curzon line on Bug, it was difficult for us to accept, but in the west, of course, there was a question of the border with Germany, and mostly this was regulated by the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles regulated some of the issues, but it also created... Yeah, he didn't close the whole border thing. Of course, Poznan was defeated by the Greater Poland Uprising. But the fact that it was decided about referendums, the plebiscites in Upper Silesia, Mazury and Powiśle, was not beneficial for us. Out of these three referendums, we lost two. We lost in Powiśle, where only 5 villages were behind Poland, and we lost in Mazury. I think that in Silesia we would have also lost the referendum if there had not been 3 Silesian Uprisings, which however improved the situation and transferred Poland's most important from an industrial and economic point of view. The areas of Upper Silesia, those areas where the industry was, where the mines were, where the steelworks were. In the east, the situation was open and the borders developed until 1921, until the Russian Treaty. Some of our commitments have not been fulfilled, e.g. an obligation to establish a Ukrainian university in Lviv. The issue of the national minority and the signing of the commitments, of course, imposed such an obligation on us, but... I think that actually the attitude towards national minorities and the decision that we are signing an agreement on national minorities were ahead of time, because there were rules that are now in force, such that every national minority has the right to develop freely, to its culture and identity. Of course, the limit of this development is an irredent, it is kind of a separation from you, but today it is also being discussed in the European Union. In fact, our main ally was France. It was seen during the Silesian uprisings and in relation to the French and French troops, in the difference between the actions of the British troops... France was our ally on this issue. The Treaty of Versailles should also be assessed positively. You can't ask for everything and throw everything on one treaty. After World War I, the treaty created about 20 independent states, new countries. After this terrible war, it was created. After all, not only Poland in this part of Europe, but a whole large group of independent countries. The treaty was destroyed by the aggressive policy of Germany, which challenged the Treaty of Versailles from the beginning, but also by the aggressive and revisionist policy of Soviet Russia, the later Soviet Union. These were the two main countries that challenged the Treaty of Versailles from the beginning to the end. The third such country, but smaller, was our ally, Hungary, who was dissatisfied with the Treaty of Trianon and challenged the borders of that time. One must remember that, of course, everyone was motivated by their own interests. We, Poland, replaying the Polish state, had to think and think in terms of the pre-breaking state, because this is the situation. We've been playing... Poland was reborn. But in the east, in the post - partition period, other nations were formed or became conscious. There was a conflict with the Ukrainians, there was a conflict with the Belarusians. It was smaller, but it was and it was a very serious conflict with Lithuania. So the Treaty of Versailles did not solve all the problems. He solved some of the problems, led to whether he was one of the elements of Poland's independence, but he also created new problems. Because nothing in politics ends. Yes, the British in the Versailles or in the Versailles discussions were not our allies, although it is difficult to say that they were our enemies. Lloyd George had a very close policy there, which played a very important role in the creation of the Treaty of Versailles, and who knew Poland's territory well, the eastern part of Poland, was Sir Lewis Bernstein-Namier. And his name was Namirski. Namirski came from Lviv and played a big role in these discussions as an expert on the situation in Poland and an expert on these areas... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Now. He was a Zionist activist in London, but at the same time he had a relationship with Poland, a very strong relationship with Poland. He entered into controversy with our chief negotiator Both of them wrote about themselves as bad as possible. But there is also a certain element in the history of the Senate, because it was the grandfather of Senator Anna Kurska. She visited him and had contact with him in the 1970's. So, regardless of the place he was in British politics, he tried to maintain And it's a good thing he kept it up. These contacts. It is worth remembering this, and it is worth remembering this senate element, which even dates back to Versailles and 1919. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u15	Thank you, Senator, Mr. Marshal. You spoke so interestingly that you would like to hear more. In general, different themes could be discussed on the margins of this resolution. I will allow myself to use the fact that I am about to turn on the microphone to mention another important aspect and consequences of the Treaty of Versailles, which was the creation of the International Labour Organisation. It was such a big event and it is such a big organization that it deserves special attention. Maybe the Senate of the next term will pay her attention. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could move on to the third reading of the draft resolution, this reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I declare our session adjourned until 1 p.m. I would like to remind you that there will be a lecture on the Lublin Union in room 217. We resume the session at 1 p.m. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 59 to 13 minutes 02]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competitions. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1234, and the report of the Commission In print No 1234 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Health Committee, it is my honor to present a law amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competitions. The Commission on the Law was sitting yesterday and the Act was adopted by the Sejm on 4 July this year. This law meets the needs of nurses and midwives, but also other environments, which are about to happen, and introduces 2 changes that are very desirable by the environment of nurses and midwives, by those who want to study and educate in these professions. The first amendment of the current law is that we introduce the possibility of studying, learning about nursing and obstetrics not only in the stationary system, but also in the non-stationary system. Except that there is a provision of a law that states that the number of hours devoted to training and the scope of training in a non-stationary system must be the same as in a stationary system. This will enable students of current nurses who want to gain their knowledge, education, but will also enable them to study, gain this profession for those who are not nurses today, are not midwives, but wish to gain such a profession and at the same time do not have the opportunity to enter a fixed school because they work, have to earn, maintain families. This bill gives you opportunities. In the face of a well-known shortage of nurses, although this changes in the right direction. I hope that the Minister will tell us about some such good changes in this area. This is a very welcome and desirable direction for the amendment of the Law on the profession of nurse and midwife. The second change we make, also important, is the mandatory provision of 6-day training leave by the employer. This holiday can be dedicated to post-graduate training, courses, conferences, to every nurse and midwife, 6 working days per year, in accordance with the applicable rules, such as those of vacation leave. Of course, the employer should agree to such leave, and the person who gets it must prove that the leave she received for training has actually taken advantage of it. So that these are very desirable changes, expected changes, good changes. The senators at the committee meeting adopted this law without amendment. I recommend to the Senate the position of our committee to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u17	At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u18	Thank you very much. I have in my district, in Ciechanów, a state-owned vocational school that was co-founded by the sleeper. Senator Janina Fetlinska, known to everyone... [[She died in a Smolensk disaster, we remember.]] Yes, sir. And I have a question as to whether this law for universities such as state vocational schools, where there is a training course, will increase the possibility of an educational offer dedicated to those already working in the health service.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u19	Yes, of course. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u20	I'm supposed to assume that the senator has already answered, right? Are there other questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I'm currently opening... I'm sorry. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko wish to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? No one's checking in. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u21	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! It's a good bill. We all know about HR issues in health care. Like the shortage of doctors that are referred to more often, the shortage of nurses is particularly severe. It seems that the perspective in this area is even more worrying, because various indicators, not only the number of nurses, but also e.g. The average age of nurses indicates that there is simply something that needs to be done in this area, so that nurses will have enough in the future to provide care for patients in different types of institutions. For a long time there has been a discussion on how to do this, how on the one hand to make the nurse's profession more attractive... There are many different types of actions in this respect. The adopted strategy for the development of nursing speaks of various types of actions that aim to create better working conditions, wages and professional development for nurses. And it seems that we already have good signals in this area. E.g. The signal of this type is a great interest in the profession of nurse, but also the fact that graduates or, as is in most cases, graduates of nursing schools enter the profession, do not choose any other professional ways. These signals, these statistics are really very optimistic right now. However, it can still be said that predictions about the future in terms of the number of nurses are not satisfactory, they are not good enough, and we need to look for additional sources, I would say, sources of those who will study nursing and become nurses in the future. As far as conditions are concerned, it can be said that a certain part, although perhaps not essential, of the law we are leaning over today is also the part concerning the exit to meet the expectations of nurses in terms of lifelong learning. Giving them the right to a 6-day annual leave, which can be devoted to lifelong learning, is also, you can say, another step towards becoming a more attractive nurse. It must be said that the profession of nurse Today, largely performed by nurses with university education, at least undergraduate education, is a self-employed profession that requires lifelong learning. Art. 61 Act on the professions of nurse and midwife must not remain dead in this respect, i.e. The nurse is committed to continuing training, she has the right to do so, but the point is that she can actually do it. And that is why this leave for education, which some employers are already giving today, and now will be a universal law for nurses, is very important. I'm going back to hiring. There seems to be a potential that this law can make much better use of than it has been. Because so far, nursing studies could only be carried out in the form of stationary studies, and that simply meant that they were actually an offer for young secondary school graduates, and to a much smaller extent for people who already work in health care in different professions and think about learning to gain the right of a nurse. Here in the first place are medical carers, but also various other people working in health care and thinking about just getting promoted to this profession, which is becoming more and more attractive. And it seems that, especially for those who are already working, the offer of permanent studies is particularly interesting, encouraging and gives a great chance that a large group of people who know better than the average person, what nursing is, because they observe it just every day in their work, will decide to do it in such a way, working and at the same time studying to gain this profession. So it seems that it is a good chance that the number of nurses, including as a result of this recruitment for studies, especially undergraduate studies, which will be carried out in this way, will be greater, and so that in the future we will not have to worry about not having enough nurses to take care of patients. For these reasons, I strongly urge you to support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u22	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Investment Act for the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Wars branch of the II World War Museum in Gdansk. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1224 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1224 A and 1224 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Mr. Marshal, there's a Seym Attorney.]] I know. [[Good.]] [[Minister Sellin will be here any minute.]] Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I would like to address Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, the representative of the applicants who is present in our deliberations. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the Act of Printing No.1224 concerning the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939, the Branch of the Museum of World War II in Gdansk. I would like to start by pointing out that, as far as Westerplatte is concerned, we can say that we are dealing with such a national historical shrine, because, as the studies referred to during the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media indicate, In addition to Auschwitz-Birkenau, Westerplatte Poles are commonly referred to as the second most important place connected with the tragedy of World War II. The history of this place also points to the fact that it was a special place. I will remind you that a few hours ago we had a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles and we talked about the fact that among others. Just a delegate of the Polish government in 1919, it was Mr Mieczysław Jałowiecki, who bought Westerplatte from German hands, so still at a time when the situation of Pomerania was not fully stabilized as the Polish border. I will also remind you that on Westerplatte in 1964 and so in completely different systemic realities, a famous monument, which is an icon, was built This place. He worked on this monument and the concept of spatial development of this place, Mr.Prof. Adam Haupt along with other creators. The symbolism of this place... There's an inverted bayonet embedded in a 20-meter mound that's located there. Professor Haupt's idea was also to build a special pavilion, which would be a museum part, showing the history of this place. As we know, this concept has not yet been realized. In view of the voices that appeared, for example in connection with the coming 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, it is increasingly common to demand that everyone who visits Gdansk, whether he is a Pole or a foreigner, from wherever he comes from, should be able to get acquainted with this place in a clear way as a symbol of the outbreak of World War II. This concerns not only our national history, but also the history of Europe and the history of the world. Thus, this was motivated at the committee meeting by the rapporteur, the need for this law, a law that would straighten these matters out and speed up the process of carrying out the task of building an open-air museum on the Westerplatte peninsula. This bill... Its aim is to improve the preparation and implementation of investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939, the branch of the Museum of World War II in Gdansk. This investment is to be carried out in the light of the law primarily because of the public interest of spreading the knowledge of Westerplatte's heroic defence in September 1939 and ensuring the protection, maintenance and revalorisation of the complex of military architecture facilities located in the area. The construction of the museum will be carried out, in particular, by means of the state budget. In order to achieve this objective, the Act sets out the rules, conditions and modalities for the preparation and implementation of investments in the construction of the museum, as well as the competent authorities for the preparation and implementation of those investments. In addition, the rules introduced are intended to regulate pre-investment proceedings, the acquisition of a legal title for real estate and the execution of investments in the construction of a museum, and administrative and judicial administrative proceedings in the execution of investments in this area. According to the Act, the investor is to be the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk, and the authority appointed for the decision to authorise the construction of the museum will be the Pomeranian Voivode. The Act is a separate and specific regulation which standardizes the preparation and execution of investments related to a specific project, namely the construction of a museum. It is modelled on earlier special laws, and in particular the Act of 24 April 2009 on investments in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and the Act of 24 February 2017 on investments in the construction of the waterway connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk, and introduces numerous solutions of a specific nature, enabling the efficient implementation of planned investments in the construction of the museum. The solutions to be used are... There are many such detailed solutions. I'm not gonna summarize the whole bill here anymore. Why do the applicants feel that this law is necessary? Of course, the implementation of such an undertaking would be possible in the current legislation regime, in particular the 2009 Real Estate Management Act, which sets out the method of expropriation for public purposes. But the whole procedure for carrying out this project in the light of the current rules would be spread over the years, it would not be possible to carry out this investment efficiently and quickly. And the aim of this law was for the applicants to implement the open-air museum on the Westerplatte peninsula as soon as possible. During the committee meeting there was such a rather turbulent debate on the subject under discussion. I think so. That's my opinion. That the emotions that this law causes are completely unnecessary, because the objective is generally accepted. Well, I don't think there's anyone in the Senate who would question the need to properly commemorate this particular place. It is also important to note that about what public opinion Maybe he doesn't really know. A significant part of the area is now in the hands of the State Treasury. She is partly managed by the President of the City of Gdańsk, who, as an elder, exercises the powers of management of the State Treasury. Notarial and formal 15% the peninsula area is part of or owned by the city of Gdansk. Just so happens, that's the 15%. The area is crucial from the point of view of historical heritage in connection with the commemoration of the events of September 1, 1939. It is also worth noting that the media is currently discussing that this is some form of interference in the matter of local government. Well, we're not dealing with this kind of situation here, or at least that's what happened in the course of the discussion, although there were also voices against it. This is due to the fact that it is also in the interest of the Gdansk government that the objective of increasing investment opportunities is to increase. After all, this law does not change the fact that Westerplatte is part of the administrative city of Gdansk and therefore in a sense it is a business card of the city, which has such a rich, beautiful, more than a thousand years of history, of which gdansk is, as it were, proud. From this point of view, the statements at the committee meeting... You were Minister Sellin, who represented the government, presented the government's opinion on the matter, and you were also President Gdansk with your colleagues, who presented their rations, quite commonly known from the media. There was also a rather long discussion and during this discussion, seven amendments were tabled by Senator Czesław Ryszka, which clarified... They do not affect the philosophy of the law itself and do not change its purpose, but they improve the decision-making process in the implementation of this investment. Some areas are e.g. An appropriate amendment was needed to clarify and take account of the reasons of the Ministry of National Defence, either administered or managed by the Ministry of National Defence. It is also a question of the status of internal roads located on the peninsula. There were also, as I recall, two legislative amendments, linguistic and legislative amendments. And these 7 amendments were adopted at our meeting yesterday. In the final vote, 7 senators voted in favour of the bill, together with the amendments adopted, against 5 senators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u24	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We shared a little bit yesterday... actually, we shared quite a bit at the cultural committee meeting to discuss this bill. We're dealing with an unusual bill. This year is a very important, 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. There's a ceremony coming up in September. So far, this city together with the state has been the organizer of this kind of celebration. And at some point quite suddenly influences the Parliament's draft law of a unit character, that is, the design of a specialty. There have been cases so far, but they have concerned completely exceptional cases, among others. the gas terminal mentioned here in 2009 or Euro 2012, when we received the task of the Euro organization and had to build stadiums in Poland in a fast manner. As far as the term of office of this government is concerned, we had a specialty from 2017 on the excavation of measurements. We know exactly what this excavation is like right now. The forest was cut out there, and there's not much going on. The investment goes its own way, slowly. It could probably be carried out in a normal way, only in accordance with the law, only in accordance with the rules. The law we are talking about defines among others. acquisition of a legal title for real estate. It's an art. 18 of this bill. This law also replaces the obtaining of permits, opinions, conditions of consent and positions resulting from regulations... This calls for a 21-day period for the opinion to be delivered. And if that's not the case, it'll be possible to proceed. What does that mean? In fact, this means eliminating the normal mode for all kinds of investments. If it weren't for the fact that it was done by law, we'd say it was circumvention. It's such a statutory circumvention, so we can call it. Why? The law, which has been built for several dozen years, very precisely defines such investments, very precisely tells what permissions should be obtained, and very precisely says that the owner of the property must not be expropriated from his property. In this case, it concerns property... [[Voice from the room: It's still...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...e.g. City of Gdansk; this is about 15% . It's an important percentage. And that's gonna be the most serious result of this bill. Less serious, but I guess that's what this was all about. The most important effect of the law will be that on 1 September the city of Gdansk will not organize celebrations, but in fact the government will organize celebrations at Westerplatte. In this case, he will not have to count on the opinion of the local government and will be able to do whatever he wants to do there. Will there be a museum? Is anything going to happen until then? Of course not. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, you were present with the director of the World War II Museum, who announced that on 1 September a cornerstone would be laid for an investment. I assure you that we would have to wait a very long time for this investment, because at the moment there is not even a concept of this museum. The only thing we saw at the committee meeting yesterday was a movie, very nice, but propaganda, in which Westerplatte built buildings. Someone's even on the committee. I don't know if the marshal called it Disneyland. Well, it's about rebuilding buildings that are long gone, which were destroyed during the war or after the war. Ladies and gentlemen! The committee was attended not only by Marshal Borusewicz, who comes from Gdansk, but also by President Dulkiewicz. It reminded, among other things, that the real reason for the creation of the Museum of World War II... the merger of the Museum of World War II with Westerplatte in 2017 was the removal of the director of Machcewicz. The reasons we're talking about... the reasons for the bill we're talking about are political, not substantive. There's no concept of a museum. There are no plans. No one's ever looked into it. I asked about archaeological works that will probably have to be undertaken there. Archaeological works will also be subject to specialization, so maybe the minister will say that it does not have to be done. And we know that if we want to rebuild buildings, we just need to explore the area. May I remind you that this is the burial area of soldiers. If I remember correctly, only a few soldiers were found dead there. Perhaps during the study, we may find that this is simply a burial site. What will happen on 1 September 2019? A foundation stone will be laid there, and then nothing will happen for a long time. An international competition will be launched, and then there will be a concept, and then you will have to merge and prepare this entire area. And only then will it be possible to think about the creation of a museum. What does that mean? I'm saying this because you don't need any special law to make it a museum. It can arise without a specialty. In the meantime, you can prepare concepts, etc., and then you can think about how to accomplish all of this. The whole thing is about getting rid of self-government. The state wants to take over the territory from the local government, wants to take over the commemoration ceremony on September 1, the outbreak of World War II. The state does it in an unprecedented way. I do not recall the situation in which the state would have annexed the local government without agreement with the local government. I would also like to remind you that, despite the quite rigid position of the local government originally, the local government proposed a friendly exit, proposed a compromise and co-running of the museum by the local government and by the government. The local government would bring the land and, like many institutions in Poland, it would be carried out peacefully, without conflicts. However, despite this proposal, despite the meetings with Minister Sellin here, there has been no agreement, even stiffening the position, which results in the bill we are talking about today. Mrs Dulkiewicz at the committee meeting mentioned the words of President Adamowicz, who said at the foot of the Monument to the Coast Defenders at Westerplatte: the measure of responsible patriotism, which is one that we practice every day in Gdansk, is looking for what connects, not divides, reconciliation, not retaliation. Unfortunately, here we are not dealing with such a case. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, there was also a confrontation in a situation where, in my opinion, it would be quite peaceful to communicate and to build this museum in accord. No one opposes this museum, although some oppose the shape of the museum, which was proposed by the director yesterday by means of a propaganda film. In this film we watched, as I said, growing buildings of rebuilt buildings, and we are dealing not only with the burial site, but also with possible cover-up of signs of war. It means that what is there at the moment would be covered as if - buildings would be built again, we would create such an artificial world, artificial commemoration. There were different concepts about what to do with Westerplatte. E.g. There was this idea... I brought the papers here. It's just a concept or an outline of a concept, and it's completely preliminary. They wondered what to do with a place like Westerplatte so as not to rebuild it, not change its character, but at the same time remind what was. This concept also contained some kind of reconstruction of buildings that were there, but it was a concept of virtual reproduction. I don't want to get into this right now, but they've been thinking about it. Maybe this idea would be possible, or maybe it would be something else. However, the current authorities Whether at the Ministry of Culture or at the Museum of World War II They're not willing to talk to anyone at all. We are dealing with highly arbitrary proceedings here, as we talked about yesterday at the cultural committee meeting. I would like to point out that the new Director of the World War II Museum, Director of Nawrocki, who has not yet had much experience in building such facilities or thinking about something like this, is at the moment the main advocate. This is the first museum he's the director of, and really... He's 34, I'm not saying age is an obstacle, but a weak experience in this case is an obstacle. I remind you that the previous director, director of Machcewicz, who was removed from the museum just by combining these facilities, had great knowledge, was known and respected abroad. Here we are dealing with a completely different case. I asked Director Nawrocki yesterday about any deadlines, about when the preparatory work will be finished, when the competition will be announced, when it will be... He couldn't answer at all. I'm talking about the fact that we're dealing with a law here, which is political, with a law that shouldn't be prosecuted at all. We called for her to go back and sit at the table and talk. The Gdansk authorities stated clearly at the committee meeting that they would be happy to co-operate with the government, as is the case in many cities in the country where the local government works well with the Ministry of Culture. Well, we've got Gdansk again... Then, in a political speech... Maybe I can tell you the story of all the wars of Minister Sellin in Gdansk. I do not want to talk about it here, although they were part of the committee's deliberations. Ladies and gentlemen, President Dulkiewicz has called for dialogue and agreement, so that we may try to block this law, which is unnecessary at all, because this museum can be built in a different way, in accordance with law and without haste. I would also like to conclude my speech with such a proposal to you, once again I would like to ask and urge the Ministry of Culture to dialogue with the local government, so that we do not have to deal with the unprecedented precedent of the annexation of local authorities, the annexation of competences, the annexation of a certain area of local government by the state authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u26	I would like the floor of the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, and the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur for the Committee on Infrastructure, I will try to present briefly what was discussed yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and what was relevant to the strict law. I'll leave my opinion to the discussion. I'm not going to talk about Gdansk's history either, because we'd be debating here by morning. As far as the objectives of the Act are concerned, they were presented by my predecessors, above all by Senator Jackowski, based on the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and what we know about this law. The discussion itself from the beginning was unfortunately based on very emotional threads and actually You can say that the whole committee meeting looked like this. At the beginning, Mr Smolinski mentioned Members who had submitted an initiative, presented the principles of the law, talked about the need to create a museum here. Mr Sellin then spoke and, what was important, reminded that in 2003. Westerplatte was considered a monument to history. The intention of the Polish government, the ministry would be to talk about such far-reaching plans So that by 2023 such a museum could be built on Westerplatte. Later, the opinion of the Legislative Bureau was presented. There were two comments here. One concerned the nature of the special law and its consequences. The second point was that the Marshal of the Sejm should direct the project to consultation, but we must note that these are so-called. theoretical solutions and we must always bear in mind the overriding purpose of the law. This is the most important in reading and various legal threads concerning what is in accordance with the regulations and what is not. Then there was a discussion. Senator Florek spoke, who, of course, criticised the bill and accused the government that he wanted to build museums in Poland with the help of a specialty and fire up a conflict in Poland, especially between the central government and the authorities of Gdańsk, before the anniversary of 1 September. Then there was a brief discussion about the amendments that I will talk about in a moment. Then I took the liberty of asking Minister Sellin a question related mainly to the concept. The answer was that in the future it should be a museum that would be a museum of battlefields. If there are any questions, I'll tell you what's going on in the case of such a museum of battlefields, and if not, it's only in the discussion... In the perspective, the government announces financing of investments at the level of about PLN 150 million from the state budget. Ms Dulkiewicz, President of Gdańsk, then spoke, who, of course, was also opposed to such legal projects and declared once again I'm gonna talk about it in a second, and then it caused polemics. A desire to commemorate this place and cooperate. She also said that the state authorities wanted to take the land of the city of Gdansk, such a statement was made. There were also concerns about two issues, whether there would be a special unit on Westerplatte, which is there today, and whether the construction of such a museum would threaten the expansion of the Central Port in Gdansk. This resulted in a reaction, a reply from Mr Smolinski and additional comments from Minister Sellin. And then they started to... Finally, there was a point about the amendments. The correction that has been accepted is 6. The first amendment, Senator Flork, was about clarifying the scale of the projects, about the scale of the objects. Another amendment concerned the full text of the Act, which was the amendment proposed by the Legislative Office. The three subsequent amendments were similar to those relating to reference to specific laws. The last amendment was a language amendment. These 6 amendments were adopted. Finally, Senator Rooster spoke, who reminded us of the railroads shot by the Germans in Szymankow after the Tczew bridge was blown up. The bill was passed, there were six votes in favour, two against. So much for yesterday's session, which should be passed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u28	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Piotr Flork, to present the proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u29	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Senator Gawel! Of course, he criticized. You started by saying that Senator Piotr Florek, of course, criticized the bill. Well, he had grounds, but he didn't always criticize them all. Sometimes he praised and praised. So it's not all so obvious. But in fact, as far as this bill is concerned, it was. Of course, I will not question or question the need to build a museum, but only the way you want to do it. And that's why it's a motion to reject the bill. I will repeat here some of the arguments that I mentioned at the committee meeting. The first issue is the narration of the bill. I'll remind you of other narratives here. Let me remind you how Mrs Beata Szydło found the ruins of the factory in Nowa Sól and then you announced in the campaign that Poland is in ruins. But it turns out that we built a few miles of highways in this Ruin. And since then, I think, as far as I know, no kilometer. So what was the narrative? Now we also have a narrative in the Seym. I will mention what Mr Jan Kilian, rapporteur, said in the Seym. The place where the first defenders of Polish land died has been neglected for years, as if forgotten. The celebrations on 1 September are organized at the symbolic time of the outbreak of World War II, but isn't the gray aura of the morning a natural veil of an ugly, deserted place? Mr Jerzy Polakzek, on behalf of Law and Justice, said: "Leaving without comment the issue of ordering the peninsula, it is not possible to go indifferently with the fact that the transport paths of the peninsula do not lead tourists to memorial sites." Come on, Mr. Speaker, you have to raise your head. You don't have to look. on all paths It's all there. I on 17 May this year. I was at Westerplatte with a large group of people and we also talked... Ladies and gentlemen, no one has ever had that impression. Of course, something can always be done better, something can be arranged, but it is not, in my opinion, such arguments as to speed things up and what you want to do on their basis. Now, of course, the medicine that PiS proposes is the way to heal the situation, the mismanagement of the city there, the mismanagement of the city, etc., as you say, or the Gdansk self-government, is to build a museum immediately. And since it's now, it's a special act. It's supposed to be in this mode. For reasons of public interest. I'll remind you of the other specialties. I remember them very well because I made my own decisions based on them. There was a 2003 law on the preparation and implementation of public road investments, a very important law. I will also remind you about Euro 2012 and what we managed to do with it. There were also emergency situations, such as: flood At that time, a special act was urgently needed. Ladies and gentlemen, I've noticed that we've been multiplying our specialties lately. We've had, for example, lately. lex developer And, of course, they are in the public interest. And there's a rule that a special act has to be something special. It should be prepared by the government and should be consulted widely before it goes to the Sejm. What do we have here? We have a specialist. Well, for me, this is a scandal: a special act prepared by Members! The project of the currently approved specialization entered the Sejm on 8 May 2019, it was a parliamentary project Like many others that have emerged lately And, of course, there's a matter of consultation. Because always in the case of a parliamentary project, consultations can be omitted. I asked at the committee meeting what was the opinion of the combatants on this matter, what were the opinions at all, but it's okay, I didn't get the answers. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski was authorized to represent the applicants, under the draft law with reasons, under this seym print number 3454 signed, as I have counted, 40 Members, but I am convinced that it is not true that this is a draft prepared by Members. The Spec Law is something special, its preparation requires special legal care, so that I don't believe it. Now the question that the senator has already mentioned is: can a museum be realized without a specialty, i.e. based on the current legislation, the general laws that we already have? Of course I do. Just a little good will and trust, cooperation, also with the local government. I'm sure there's room for dialogue and agreement here, you just have to want to. Besides, the President of Gdańsk spoke about this at the committee meeting. Will this bill change anything about the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II? No, of course not. If it is accepted and signed by the President, it will only be a basis for preparatory work, which... preliminary work itself may take several months, and preparatory work usually lasts for years. So we can say that, possibly in a few years, there is a chance for implementation. That's why this haste is incomprehensible. I'll remind you of the apartment specialist. We remember how Minister Kazimierz Smolinski was then I don't see him right now. He and other ministers dug the first shovels at the construction site. Of course, it was about living +. What do we got? Only a few hundred have been built so far from the announced 3 million apartments, but they are mainly taken over by the local government. It's not built from scratch... Now I hear the senator talking here. We didn't talk about it in the committee. That it is also about laying the foundation stone that he would be erected on September 1st. Ladies and gentlemen, I can give you another example of what government-government cooperation looks like, based on my own experience. I'm talking about the Self-Government Road Fund. It's about the old so-called. schematics. What were the procedures, what was the committee's composition? Police, general management, etc... And they set up lists, and on the basis of these letters, money is then received for 3 million grants to build a road. These letters were prepared now, too. And I'll tell you what happened in my district in Poznań. There's that sketch, I mean. The road from the local government fund, but otherwise we called it, highly ranked, very high... There were supposed to be 3 million grants for it. And what did you do? You changed the bill so that at the end, the Prime Minister decides and signs. And what did the Prime Minister do? He crossed it out. The Commission, including the general directorate, well, everyone worked on it, and finally it turned out that the Prime Minister had crossed it out without any justification. [[Voice from the room: He corrected the obvious mistake.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, are you still talking about...]] Yes. [[...this item on the agenda?]] Yes, I am talking about cooperation with local government in the context of this law and I am giving examples of what this cooperation looks like. I was talking about this cooperation and about President Gdansk and I was giving an example of what this cooperation looks like. It's a bad thing... This is where we need to talk, this is where we need to work, this is where we need to work, and you don't do that. In this bill, you take shortcuts. You replace the requirements for obtaining arrangements, permits, opinions with opinion procedures. Well, it's the easiest thing to do, because either there's an opinion or she's not. Yes? If there's no opinion at a certain time, then that's okay. Next: you shorten all terms, restrict ownership and the rights of the parties to the proceedings. If there's no agreement, of course it's gonna be that the voivode, by decision, will pay the compensation, which means the city will get the money... I remember that I think Mr. Pavel Adamowicz, that maybe 2 million... Well, according to this law, the voivode will determine and pay compensation if there is no agreement. It's in the bill, if I remember correctly, there's two months to come to an agreement. Ended because I don't want to prolong I could say a lot about the details of this law. I would like to say that you will lead to an escalation of tensions and conflicts before the celebrations on 1 September 2019, that you do not appreciate the self-government, do not appreciate the inhabitants of Gdańsk, that this law, introduced in such a manner, i.e. as a special act, will spoil the atmosphere of the celebration of 1 September, this important anniversary. For this I have the biggest... Bottom line, I'm gonna say yes. Parliamentary project, a law introduced in such a mode, i.e. as a special act This should not happen on such an important matter. It's not like any of us are questioning the importance of building a museum. The fact that you're going to contribute financially is very good, too. However, the procedure and method of carrying out the bill are unacceptable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u30	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Wait a minute. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Jan Rulewski is the first to sign up. Since the rapporteurs are 4, I ask you to clarify which rapporteur the question is addressed to. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The question to Senator Jackowski, who launched the reports with the longest speech and praised this building on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media. You used the term that there's no one in the O.R. who would object to the proper celebrations. Do you know the concept of "righter"? And in this context, do you consider it right that there should be a building and a celebration in the company of the officials? Isn't it more appropriate to have a building, officials and residents? That's the first question. Two. Is it true that there are already attacks using good or evil laws on cyclical gatherings to block celebrations other than those considered right for 10 years? And the third question. Did the committee discuss the issue of the international noises of the dispute that are taking place in Poland, about the rather symbolic and worldly place, which is Gdansk? And is it true that the commentators have already said that in addition to the missiles that were fired by Schleswig-Holstein, the Poles also launched the missile towards Westerplatte? Because this is how you treat those celebrations that will be empty when it comes to memory and full when it comes to officials.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u32	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u33	As regards the third question, there was no discussion on this at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. As for the second question, it is the Public Assembly Act and it is clear what the hierarchy is. If the organizer is the government, it is the priority of such celebrations. And it is this law that prevents interference, if anyone would like to do wrong, that I stress: by wrong will, in any way interfere with the course of the manifestation. As far as the senator's first question is concerned, I think I made myself clear. I'm looking And I think everyone in this House shares this view. That celebration on September 1st at Westerplatte, annual... I'll remind you that every year they take place at 4:00 with minutes, I don't remember which... [[Voice from the room: 4:45 p.m.]] Yes, at 4:45, thank you for the tip. ...with representatives of the government, representatives of the local government, the military... [[Parliament, Senate...]] ...parliament, Senate, residents. These celebrations are held every year and there is no indication that such celebrations will not be in the future. I, to tell you the truth, do not really understand the connection between the senator's questions and this bill. I suppose everyone in this room is, or at least declare that they are, supporters of a worthy celebration of these celebrations and a worthy historical commemoration of this place. That's it. I'm already talking about the details of how someone imagines the script of such celebrations and who's supposed to be the organizer... Well, we didn't discuss that at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u34	Thank you. Stay here for a while, because now you're gonna be asking Senator Jerzy Fedorovich a question. Is that a question for Senator Jackowski, too? [[No, no, I'll...]] Thank you, Senator. [[...Senator Barbara Zdrojewska...]] You don't have a senator. [[There it is, there it is.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[I'm here.]] Oh, excuse me, ma'am. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u35	I'd like to, Mr. Marshal... Senator, after your speech, I wanted to drop the question because you actually told me everything. You've given up the entire course of the committee I've been running and the emotions involved. Well, nevertheless, in the presence of the Senate Vice-Marshal, I would like you to confirm, for example. something that basically prevents the committee from working. Well, it turned out that during the committee's work we got 5 very serious amendments to analyze only then. Tell me something about how this affects the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u36	Yes, thank you very much for this question, Mr President. Indeed, from your point of view, it must be particularly severe when the committee gathers in extraordinary mode and even during the procession, when we read the documents And this is the first time we've seen it. Legal opinion on these issues, we are taking note of the opinion of the Legislative Office Suddenly it turns out that the project, which is a draft of the Members of the PIS... And yet the Senators of the PIS suddenly submit amendments, quite detailed, which they have in writing. They're known by the Ministry, known by the PiS senators, and we get them at the last minute. It was quite outrageous. I should have said this before, I'm fighting in my chest, but we've kind of gotten used to such incredible practices at committee meetings, to this kind of procedure, completely incomprehensible. Well, since these amendments were much earlier ready, a day or two earlier, they just had to be sent by e-mail to all senators, not just their own. It was outrageous, it is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u37	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question. Do you address them to the Senator of the rapporteur? [[No, to see Senator Jackowski.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u38	I'll have a second question for Senator Gawl, but that's in a minute. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! There were arguments in the discussion. Of course, the supporters of taking over this land, because that's what I'm talking about. After taking over, there will be an acceleration or better implementation of the investment. Would you mind if there was such a discussion at the committee meeting? And was it, if such conclusions were reached, to say, what would be the better implementation after taking over the land? That's a question for the senator. If you don't mind, Senator Gawl, I'm gonna turn to you right away so I don't speak again. You said that at the president's question, This was a question relating to the roadway, to the investments carried out, whether it would threaten them with the obvious return of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski and the Minister. I would ask you to quote this obvious reply that came during the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u39	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I answer your question. First of all, in the light of this speciality, it will be possible to replace the requirement to obtain arrangements and permits, opinions, conditions, approvals or positions necessary in the light of the provisions in force by an opinion procedure by the authorities referred to in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 of the Act and an indication of the time limit for presenting its position under the strict condition that the authority concerned does not raise objections if it does not deliver an opinion within the given time limit. The same applies to the arrangement with the public road manager of its construction or reconstruction. Secondly, setting the deadline for the decision to authorise the construction of the museum for 60 days. That's what the bill says. Thirdly, this is another means of achieving this goal, because that is what you asked. The granting of an authorisation procedure for the construction of an investment in a museum of a kind prior to civil-law trade and before administrative proceedings relating to the execution of other investments. Fourthly, the introduction of a number of procedural simplifications in the main proceedings concerning the adoption of a decision authorising the implementation of investments in the construction of the museum, e.g. relaxing the legal requirements of the party to participate in proceedings or information obligations, service on the part of the body, in particular in the context of the unregulated legal status of the property, and in the proceedings preceding it, i.e. concerning the issue of a water licence. Fifthly, setting a 90-day deadline for issuing decisions on environmental conditions for investments in museum construction. Sixth, specifying the time limits for the transmission of the file to the administrative court, the law imposes a mandatory period of 15 days, the mere recognition of the application for authorisation of an investment in access infrastructure, 30 days, as well as the identification of a possible cassation complaint, 2 months. That's it. [[Mr. Marshal, may I add?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u41	Complement, right? [[Yeah, yeah.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you for the information, because every piece of information is part of the knowledge, but that's not what I asked, so if you don't mind me asking again, maybe I wasn't very clear. Of course, if the marshal will allow it. Mr. Senator, I'm asking you how you're gonna take over the area to the thesis on speeding up the implementation. So I'm gonna ask you to focus. With all the facilities you have read about and the fact that the owner remains the city of Gdansk and is a co-realizer, as Senator Zdrojewska said, because there was such a declaration... Is it just a situation where the State Treasury owns it that makes the investment process easier? How's one to the other? And thank you for that information, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u43	Mr. Senator, one to the other is very closely linked. I understand that your thesis in this question was about how long these proceedings would last. 'Cause all these things would have to be done anyway. If we were in the current state of law to carry out such a task. If we'd just... The terms that are there, and the possibilities for different administrative and judicial procedures... these terms are much longer. This law makes it possible to speed up procedures, in general. In addition, I will remind you that the ownership structure of the Westerplatte peninsula is that about 15% The area is owned by the city of Gdańsk, while the remaining area has other owners, including of course the State Treasury, and there are military areas there. Hence, in this bill, among others. the definition, because it appeared after our amendment to the Committee on Culture, the procedure for obtaining appropriate consent in the agreement e.g. between the Ministry of National Defence and the investor who will act in this respect. So I think the purpose of the bill is obvious, clear and precise. Moreover, since you are asking this question, I would like to point out that the city of Gdansk has had the opportunity to develop this area for several decades, after all, nothing has prevented it from doing so, and it has not done so, beyond this scope which is present. Therefore, this is not the situation as it was said here during the debate, because it was talking about some alleged seizure, takeover, seizure. Self-government is part of the state just as much as government administration, it is one and the same state, these are legal concepts, so we are not talking about any procurement or takeover here. This is therefore misleading the public. Such issues can be regulated by law, it is consistent with the constitution and the legal order in force in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u44	The question is... [[Please sign up for the question.]] Mr. Senator, next up. [[Good.]] [[Me too.]] You ask the question of Marshal Borusewicz, but I see he is absent. In that case, I give the floor to Senator Panczyk-Podniej. There you go. [[There was a question for Senator Gawl.]] [[Again, that question...]] Excuse me, yes. There was a question for Senator Gawl. [[Voice from the room: It's fast to...]] Then Senator Blackbay. [[Same again.]] Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u45	Mr. Senator, answer. President Dulkiewicz asked what the future of the Westerplatte special unit would be, and asked about cases related to the reconstruction of the port of Gdansk. Those were the two questions. These questions, especially the first ones, connected with the entity, with the existence of this special unit, caused the reaction of Mr Smolinski, who reminded Mrs Dulkiewicz, how the formation from which it originated, destroyed the units in Pomerania, also said about the barracks which were liquidated in Gdańsk, about the fact that today there is no place where to put troops in Gdansk. And that's the case... [[But why in Gdansk the military...]] But, Senator... [[Mr. Senator, it's in discussion.]] I answer, I don't say why or why. I was asked a question, so I answer the question. And, ladies and gentlemen, let's cut the polemics short. Let's really be specific. Specific questions, specific answers. As far as the special unit is concerned, it will not be liquidated, there is room for it. As regards the construction of the central port of Gdansk, Minister Sellin replied that there was contact with the Ministry, there will be absolutely no collision with the construction of the port and the extension or design of the building of this museum. Those were the answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u46	Thank you, Senator. The question you ask is Senator Panczyk-Podziej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Jan Maria. The senator argued that the fact that the museum was being built was not objectionable, and that is true, no one's objection is aroused because it is an investment accepted by everyone. If any doubts are raised, they relate only to the fact that the investment is carried out under the specialty. And I didn't really understand if what you were explaining... those qualities, in response to the senator, that was about the specialty? Because I'm lost in that translation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u48	That is because the special act, Mrs. Marshal, allows for shortening... maybe not so much allows for shortening the time standards of administrative proceedings which are related to the implementation of the project. It is known that you have to apply for a building permit, you have to make different arrangements, environmental arrangements, is the question of using roads to build, etc., that's all that is connected with a big investment. This law accelerates the path of obtaining further stages of administrative and judicial proceedings which are necessary for the implementation of this investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u49	I hope you convinced the Senate because we weren't very convinced about these reasons on the committee. But it's different. Since most of the construction costs of the museum are taken over by the government, and this is confirmed by Senator Gaweł here, because he said that 150 million government is signing up for this construction, I would like to know the contribution of a proportionate government and local government to this investment, see how proportionate it looks. If the government gives 150 million, how much does the government spend on it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u50	Thank you very much, Marshal. I think it would be better to redirect this question to Minister Sellin, who, as he said in the committee, had talks with the city of Gdansk. I think that he is more competent than I am to present, as a representative of the government, the Ministry leading for this project and as a minister who has conducted negotiations with the city of Gdańsk, what this situation looks like. This also applies to extending this to a certain historical context, which I do not want to speak about, because the idea of building this museum is not the present idea. This idea whether the idea is at least a dozen years old in its history, in its individual stages, and I think that if your Marshal asks this question to the Minister, he will surely present this information in a short form. I am also thinking about the algorithmic division of possible costs, because the city, as I understand it, did not express an unwillingness to join this project in any form. As for the rules, we'll have arrangements between the national cultural and heritage department and the city. This will, as I understand it, be a separate agreement, separate negotiations and talks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u51	The question is Senator Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u52	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to address Senator Flork. Mr. Marshal has rightly pointed out that the senator has gone a long way from the subject we're dealing with and talked about the roads. And I'd just like to draw attention. 'Cause not so much to ask, but to get the senator's attention... You said that no expressways and highways had been completed. As far as I know. This is the data from the Ministry of Infrastructure. For the last 3.5 years 750 km of express roads and motorways have been put into service and a thousand more contracts are signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u53	Well, that wasn't a question, but... [[No, but I have to answer, of course... thank you for that question.]] ...if the senator wants to react, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u54	Yeah, yeah. Of course, I was talking about the cooperation of the local government and I showed this on this example of the road. But if you want to continue on the road, let me remind you that I did not use the return of express roads and motorways. I just said the highway. That's why I told the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u55	You're asking Senator Oremski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u56	I refer to Senator Zdrojewska after Wrocław's sympathy. You asked Paul Adamowicz to quote that the measure of modern patriotism is to seek what is in common. If we're thinking about what's in common, we have to try to understand the other side. As part of such thinking, are you willing to agree on such an argument that, on the basis of a specialty, the Minister may, for example, To say he won't allow archaeological research, that there's no need for such research... Well, it could also be due to the fact that the other side imagines that if the local government To decide, it can also decide that these archaeological studies will not be. Senator says it's been a long, long, long time, nothing's gonna happen. Do you consider anything that can be extrapolated, that since this area, as I understand it, has been in more local government power for so many years, the other party is afraid that if it stays the way it was, then long, long and still nothing will happen there? If the measure of modern patriotism is to seek what is in common, then it is not It's just a matter of government guilt. Perhaps the other side feels that this is the one that President Dulkiewicz is embezzling. Moreover, if you say that we are dealing with the war of Minister Sellin with Gdansk, with the authorities of Gdansk... Maybe the other side takes it as a war between the Gdansk authorities and Minister Sellin? I know examples from Wrocław, in which there is a difference of options, definitely, but in several matters and with the Ministry of Culture, and with other ministries of this government, the Wrocław authorities were able to communicate. So I'd ask you to-- I have the impression that most of the arguments used here weren't. In fact, with arguments, she was just based on emotions. Are you able to admit that the other side can see it in this way and that it is, perhaps, not as unambiguous as you put it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u57	Well, some kind of question was finally put at the end. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u58	There was a question, yes. Mr. Senator, let me put it this way: I agree completely with you, I think the other side has a point of view. And I regret that the other side sets out this point of view on public television, where there have been attacks on the city of Gdańsk for many, many months. It hurts me the most. And if we're talking about government cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, I mentioned it. Ministry of Culture This Minister of Culture, the previous and the previous, is co-hosting in Poland a lot of institutions and nothing bad is happening there. If you'd like me to tell you about Minister Sellin's wars in Gdansk, I'll introduce you. If you want me to start talking here about how the Minister first tried to take over the World War II Museum, what he managed to do, how he tried to dissuade the ECS and cut the grant for him, like the Minister, how the government was unable to communicate with the authorities of Gdańsk on 4 June and the celebrations... I could give examples of how arbitrary it was done, how outstanding professionals, museum builders, people like Director Machcewicz were thrown out of work. I could tell a long story here. And as far as your question is concerned, I absolutely admit that the government side has a completely different point of view. I absolutely agree here. However, in my opinion, if the government, if Minister Sellin does not look at the local government as a partner, it will be fatal. I'll give you one example of what really happened during those famous conversations between the Minister... Maybe the Minister will tell you more about them later. But the only proposal that was made by the government is the entry of the city of Gdansk into the honorary committee. Indeed, such an offer was made. We know how much... Some of us have been on various honorary committees, and we know how many honorary committees have to say. So that was the government's proposal. Once again, I appeal that he may not adopt this law, but he may agree. Because it's just what I think, at least verbally, that we're all here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u59	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay. [[Question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u60	Mr. Marshal, I'm here to see the senator. Thank you again for the supplement, giving us the same information again. So I'm going to ask you one more time: did you consider, and if not, whether this was in the discussion, the question of the formation of an entity... Divided, since 15% It has a city, and 85% of the Treasury... It's about the creation of an undertaking with such participation. You said that taking over the land is an integral part of accelerating the implementation of the investment. And I would like to ask once again: would such a situation, in which there would be a compromise, in which the city of Gdańsk would be a shareholder in the undertaking, and not only would it be on the honor committee, would it delay the implementation of the investment, speed up, or would it be indifferent for the investment? Of course, if you would approve all the facilities that the senator rightly mentioned, in order to reach a compromise on the realization of an important project for Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u61	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u62	I can answer this question, Mr. Senator, theoretically, because right now we have a situation, well, not the best relationship, as far as the city side of Gdańsk is concerned, about the evaluation of this project that we are currently debating. So she's sure, let's call it emotional or political. In theory, if there were good will on both sides, of course, such an object could be realized. But we differ in the assessment of who has bad will in this matter... [[That's not what I asked.]] I dare argue that here's the site, let's call it, the government doesn't have any bad will in this case. [[Does he have a good one?]] Of course he has a good one. After all, the project of building such an object was reported even at a time when Law and Justice first formulated the government. And this project has a long history. I don't want to tell you this right now, because Mr. Sellin is much better off than I am. And he will probably respond to what we are talking about when such questions and issues have been raised, and he will be more competent to provide detailed information here. I can say theoretically. Theoretically, this possibility could, of course, be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u63	Thank you. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u64	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I am directing my question to Senator Zdrojewska. We should argue here logically, but less emotionally. I think we agree on that statement. During your first speech, you used the wording of the self-government area... [[Do you have a microphone on?]] Yeah, yeah. Oh, now you're gonna hear better. [[Yes. Thank you very much.]] During your first speech, you used the wording of the self-government area. In a dictionary sense, it is the incorporation by the State of all or part of the territory of another country. So what country is Gdansk in? Or is he an independent state? Was it more of a poetry figure? In fact, whether or not both of these entities, i.e. State and local government If the self-government can be separated from the state at all Do you think they have the same systemic position? Because I think it's different in the Constitution. And second question. We're talking about territory or territory, land that belongs to the municipality. Tell me: and where did this territory come from, in the power of this community? How did the municipality become its owner? She bought it, earned it, or did she get it free of charge from the state on the basis of the transitional provisions of the year, probably 1990 or 1989? Explain why this area is in the hands of the commune?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u65	Two questions, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u66	Yeah, yeah. And the first question? [[Voice from the room: About annexation.]] About the annexation, I know. [[What's with the annexation? Which one of you is it?]] Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, using the term "Angelsia..." Indeed, I can consider this to be a stylistic figure, because it will not be an annexation in the sense of taking over the territory of a country, but it will only be if something like this happens to take over by force, because we know that the government does not agree to it. So if the government takes over, it's against the will of the government. Well, I guess that's clear. So I think the use of the word "aession" is legitimate. And Gdansk is not an extraterritorial city or anything, it is part of Poland, it is a wonderful, patriotic city. And I think that's why he wants to be co-host of the museum and influence the decisions that will be made there. The second question was... [[Communalization.]] [[Where did Gdansk get the land he's fighting for now?]] I don't know anymore... You, asking the question, Senator, said he took over from you. I remind you, Mr. Senator, that all the land in Poland... [[Voice from the room:...was state.]] ...were state-owned. [[In the Polish ……]] In the Polish So there's no way any municipality is owned. It's just that the municipality didn't own any land. [[Thank you, Senator.]] And I'm gonna say... [[There was a communalisation in 1990.]] Yes, there was a communalisation in 1990. Then the municipalities got part of the urban land and became owners of it. And I'm gonna say... [[Owned.]] Listen to what you're saying, from this side, and from this side, I don't hear anything. [[Senator, she helped me put things in order.]] Yes. And I'd like to say, Mr. Senator, that it doesn't matter at all to the cause because it's always possible to communicate and get along. I remember that many times... I am the person who spent many years in the local government. And I remember very well how we are for different... Senator Oremski also remembers that we either gave you or swapped different areas for different noble purposes. It was under different governments and local government relations with these governments, but, if needed and needed to be given back to areas that were already after the communalisation of 1990, which were already the property of the city, they could be transferred, for example. for the purposes of the Administrative Court This is what happened in Wroclaw. Such things were done by agreement. There was never such a case, Mr. Senator, that it would come to anybody's mind, in that government, I don't think SLD - I don't know what government it was - to introduce a specialty and take something from the city for a very important purpose, to the court. No, because all you have to do is communicate. You need to talk to each other. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u67	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions for your rapporteurs? [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Would a government representative, Mr Jarosław Sellin, like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Is there a need?]] It's up to the Minister to decide the need. [[There's a need.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! You're prosecuting the Parliamentary Act. I know that there is no such procedure so that Members who are bringing in a legislative act can appear before the Senate in plenary, unlike the committee meetings we had yesterday. Therefore, I will not refer to the act itself, because this is the task of the rapporteurs who did so at committee meetings, but I will refer to the purpose of this law, and the aim is to build the Westerplatte Open Museum and the 1939 Defence War. I'll start with a thesis I can prove. We have this situation in Poland I don't judge it, I just describe it that there are political environments that are sensitive to historical policy, and it's a historical policy institutionally pursued by the ambitious construction of new institutions that deal with this policy. At the same time, this policy is necessary, because even in recent years we have seen how many contradictions, stereotypes, even bad wills, as regards the assessment of Polish history and Polish historical achievements and the merits of Poland in the history of Europe or the world. There are political environments that are not too sensitive to this, have different priorities, are not very interested in it and are not very concerned about it. The proof that this is the case is that we always, when we were in power, even during this short period of 2005-2007, and now, for 4 years, we have been trying to support and build such institutions. Other political environments, when they ruled in Poland, did not support and build such institutions. Proof of this is that it was during our reign, in the years 2005-2007, that the Museum of History of Poland was established. Then things stood still and nothing happened for eight years. Only now are we building the building of this museum at the Warsaw Citadel. The museum is very necessary, very necessary, because it is worth telling the world and Poles synthetically about Polish thousand-year history in one place. This is the most ambitious project in the history of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. It is during our rule that we will also finalize the construction of museums dedicated to 2 most important Poles in a thousand years of history. For years Poles have indicated that John Paul II and Józef Piłsudski are such people first. Building such museums is ambitious. It is during our rule that the construction of the Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka, as well as the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic on Rakowiecka in Warsaw is carried out and nearly completed. Our predecessors in the official announcement of the previous Minister of Culture considered that there was no social need in Poland for the museum of soldiers cursed. It is our government that created the initiative and is the building of the Museum of Eastern Lands of the Old Republic. The need to build museums of Kresów That's what people usually call it. It is very strong and signaled in very different places in Poland. We decided that the most important museum dedicated to the Kresów will be built in Lublin, and it is already being created. Also under our rule is support for the construction of the Sibir Memorial Museum in Bialystok. The Sand Museum is being created. Finally, I come to the substance of the discussion we are discussing today, the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Wars. This museum also has a history that is worth describing, because on the basis of this story we will see who is sensitive to the subject of historical politics and who is not. Well, I give to President Kwasniewski that in August 2003 he announced that the field of battle on Westerplatte will be on the presidential exclusive list of monuments of history. A very important fact indicating that from the point of view of the highest office in the Republic of Poland such a place as Westerplatte should be on this exclusive list. This means that the state should be interested in such a place. At that time there were only 40 objects on this list in Poland, today there are already 105. We're at 105. But then it was a very exclusive list and Westerplatte was on that list. Therefore, after my political community came to power in 2005, just two years later, we decided that Westerplatte had to be revitalized. This has to be done because it's neglected, there's no proper story about this seven-day battle. We have to make sure that the museum is built and that... we even had a plan like that. In 2005 or 2006, it was still possible to dream about it, although there was no time. too much for the 70th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, i.e. in 2009, to have such a museum so that it is already built and organized. We have appointed a representative of the Pomeranian Voivodeship for the rehabilitation and construction of such a museum, and we have even announced the creation of the museum on 1 September 2008. The projects, contrary to what Senator Zdrojewska said, were already and are still on the table. They may be subject to some correction, maybe it's worth leaning over them, but they were already presented, they were very interesting. In my opinion, these projects can be returned to. Unfortunately, a moment later, we lost our power in the parliamentary elections. Our successors even hesitated for a moment, because on 1 September 2008 they also announced that they were setting up the Westerplatte Museum, but already 3 months later, in December 2008, they changed the name of the Westerplatte Museum to the World War II Museum in Gdańsk and actually built the World War II Museum in Gdańsk. There was nothing going on at Westerplatte. Therefore, when we again gained power in 2015, one of the first decisions of the Minister of Culture was that we re-established the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939. And such an institution is, exists. Such a museum in the institutional sense exists, but of course it should be in Westerplatte, on the Westerplatte peninsula. This institution should have a chance to build an outdoor museum of battlefields. In April 2017, in view of the fact that the Museum of World War II had already completed its building, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage opened its doors, he decided that since he had in Gdansk as the organizer, the only organizer, the Museum of World War II and the Westerplatte Museum and the War 1939, it would be logical if the Museum of Westerplatte and the War of 1939 were to tell a detailed but very important history for our memory. It was a subsidiary of the Museum of World War II. It seems that from a clean point of view it was logical and normal. And that's how it is today. We have the World War II Museum, the branch of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War Museum and the dream, the ambition to finally realize the proper commemoration of the battlefield and the right outdoor museum on the Westerplatte peninsula. But for this to be possible, of course, what is needed is what is the purpose of this speciality, which the senators are debating today, that is, the unification of ownership structure in the peninsula. It is worth mentioning every detailed episode of this 7-day battle. This battle had its own drama, each day took place in a slightly different place, slightly different events were happening, a slightly different form of these fights took on, other heroes who were worth remembering by name, were marked by each day, etc., etc. And it's worth making sure it's a walking museum that's gonna explain this whole story in detail, it's gonna run. But in order for that to be possible, this ownership harmonisation is needed because the owners are a few, not only the city of Gdansk is the owner. By the way, the city of Gdansk has the property of the State Treasury there, as the senator rightly pointed out. These properties are on the management board of the Old Town, and in this case the governor is of course the President of the City of Gdańsk. I'll also put the following thesis. If today is such a good will and suddenly appeared on the side of the local authorities such an increase that it is really worth building this museum in cooperation etc., etc., then the question is: why, when we tried to build this museum, didn't the city get involved? And if he had the opportunity to do so in this main area, which is in his power. 'Cause that's where the most important parts were. This battle. Why didn't he do it himself? Why didn't Gdansk City do this for a quarter of a century? The city of Gdańsk takes care of, through its Museum of Gdańsk, Wartownia nr 1 with area of 70 m2, a very important place for the memory of Westerplatte Inside are very important artifacts that are important for this story But that's all. It is 70 m2, one small apartment, and the area of the battlefield is many hectares, where the artifacts are preserved, there are relics on which we trample, on which we walk. We don't even realize we're walking around them at all. There's a place where World War II's first soldier, known by name, was killed. We walk around this place and we don't even know we're walking around. It is unexplained at all, unreadable. And there's a lot of places out there. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... I had the impression that a few more specific questions had been asked by the senators, but I would also like to comment on them, because they were simply untrue, especially as regards the statements made by Senator Zdrojewska. So if the marshal will allow me, I will respond to them. We heard during the debate on this law that the main objective is not to build a museum, but to take over the ceremony. I will repeat it again, although I have said it repeatedly: the celebrations on 1 September at 4.45 am, commemorating the next anniversaries of the outbreak of World War II, organizes the city of Gdansk for 21 years. It was the idea of sleep. President Paul Adamowicz. And good, I'm grateful that the city has been doing this for 21 years. The highest state, government, parliamentary authorities always arrive at these ceremonies, and so will this year. Due to the fact that these celebrations this year concern the round anniversary of the 80th anniversary, we also planned many celebrations in Gdansk, for which we invite representatives of the local government of Gdansk. We for the ceremony planned by the local government will of course come. I hope that Gdansk will return with a great show on the water and on land, connected with the reminder of our history on the anniversary of the signing of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, because it will also be the 80th anniversary, an international conference with experts and historians from countries who have been victimized by the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, from Finland to Romania, because we will also organize such a thing, for a great exhibition organized in the Museum of the Second World War, opened on 1 September, showing that the Poles first opposed 2 totalitarianisms and the mutation of this exhibition will be presented in 80 Polish diplomatic offices in the world, in the languages of the original country data, to remind the whole world who this first resisted And to unveil the monument of Witold Pilecki on 17 September in Gdańsk near the Museum of World War II. I think we should meet at these kind of celebrations, connected with this anniversary, together. On the charge of Senator Zdrojewska that there is no museum concept, I have already answered. This concept is, is very interesting, it dates back to 2006, and it has been developed to a large extent by the present voivodship conservationist of monuments in Pomerania and by museum specialists, but of course it is worth considering this concept. The concept presented by the Museum of Gdansk, which suddenly increased... At the last minute, when they saw that we really, really wanted to build a museum, they suddenly, quickly started to come up with something. And that's something that's very disturbing, and that's what Senator Zdrojewska was accusing us of. Some glass lumps, full of concrete. No, we think that this should be the extraction of what is, of those original relics that exist, at most. That's my personal opinion; let's leave it to the professionals. E.g. reconstruction of this small, you can say, a transhipment train station at the entrance to the military transit depot, because it would be useful, for example. some small cinema hall in Westerplatte, where you will be able to show various films about Westerplatte and this place could serve it, or for example. Officer's villa. But that's the point. It's still open to discussion. The concept of Disneyland has indeed emerged and, in my opinion, it is scandalous in this context. Poles indicate that the two most important places associated with the Second World War are Auschwitz-Birkenau and Westerplatte. I can't imagine anyone using the concept "Disneyland" in relation to any actions of the Polish authorities that want to organize and commemorate places such as Auschwitz-Birkenau and Westerplatte. It's not gonna be any Disneyland. It will be a Polish story about the heroic fight of Polish soldiers who first resisted German aggression. Senator Zdrojewska also mentioned that in 2017 the reason for the merger of the Second World War Museum with the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War was supposedly the desire to cancel the management of the Second World War Museum. I would like to express my surprise that Director Machcewicz, whom you mentioned when he found out that he was going to receive the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Wars, decided that this was an act of aggression against him and that he did not wish it. Well, indeed, if this was the attitude of the director of the Museum of World War II, if he thought that giving him the Museum of Westerplatte was an act of aggression, then I guess he wasn't really fit for that position. The senator also mentioned that the suspicion was that there would be no agreement for archaeological research. Mrs. Senator, it is precisely because we have established the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Wars that 4 seasons of archaeological research have already taken place on the Westerplatte peninsula, and the city of Gdansk has never thought of carrying out such research before. And as part of these four seasons of archaeological research, we recovered 50,000 artifacts from the ground on Westerplatte, several thousand of which are suitable for a permanent exhibition. These are precious, very emotional souvenirs. This city of Gdansk tried not to allow further archaeological research. Fortunately, the voivodship monument conservator had enough legal instruments to bring them forward. The senator asked if it was possible to cooperate with the local government. Of course it's possible. We don't want Westerplatte to share. We believe that this is an important topic for every Pole, for every level of public authority, and we want this cooperation. That is why there were these proposals which were made, proposals at a direct meeting with President Dulkiewicz and proposals made in writing also in a letter to President Dulkiewicz to this honorary committee, which you are so disrespectfully referring to: the honorary committee for the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the Defensive War 1939, Madam President Dulkiewicz has delegated four of her representatives, and there will be 10 members, so this is an important representation, and so that this committee has decision-making power, so that in cooperation with the director of the Museum of World War II, an investor, details of this commemoration, it should look like, in consensus. It was also proposed that President Dulkiewicz finally delegate her representative to the World War II Museum Council. The museum operates, the museum has a council which has been in operation for 2 years and is composed of outstanding historians, outstanding museums, veterans. I do not know why, despite repeated requests, the president of the city in which this museum operates, the President of Gdańsk does not want to delegate his representative to the Museum of World War II. If you want to influence, it's just worth using some instrument to have that effect. And here's the deal. Fortunately, already accepted, as I found out yesterday For the city of Gdańsk to also delegate its representative to the construction committee of the monument of Witold Pilecki, for example. Pomeranian marshal, from the Civic Platform, entered such a committee, and the city of Gdańsk somehow did not respond to these requests. Luckily, it's already done. You used a senator's phrase that I'm running some kind of war in Gdansk. This is quite painful for me, because I am a Member of Gdansk with quite important support. I'll tell the senator that I'm at war for Gdansk. Marian basilica, the most important church in Gdansk, the largest brick church in Europe, thanks Well, I can say that immodestly. It also gained 20 million PLN in my efforts for renovation, i.e. for renovation, for renewal such a large scale, designed on such a scale as it has not been since the reconstruction of the basilica in 1945. In the framework of these wars in Gdansk, I also led the city of Gdansk to receive important European funds for forts and Hevelianum. Within the framework of these wars in Gdansk, in recent days the Dominican Basilica of St. Nicholas in Gdansk got the money to save him. As part of these wars, the Church of St. Peter and Paul, who had recently been on fire, receive money from the minister to rescue him. Within the framework of these wars, of course, we do finance all the time, year in the year of the National Museum in Gdansk, the Theatre of the Coast in Gdansk. Within the framework of these wars, the Gdańsk Museum, which is with us in the dispute in the case of Westerplatte, is subordinate to the President of the city of Gdańsk, just 3 days ago received PLN 0.5 million for the new catalogue of war losses of the Gdańsk Museum, all its 10 branches, to make such a study again, because there are many new discoveries, which still have war losses of individual branches of the Gdańsk Museum. These are indeed my aggressive wars with Gdansk, which do not serve Gdansk. Senator Panczyk asked how much government, how much government could invest. Well, we declare that... because it should be such a light outdoor museum, not some big cubatur, big investments, big buildings. That could actually be 150 million. It's also big money, and compared to other museums It's not that big, but we're talking about a light construction, not a great massage in which we'd start a story like that in big cups. This is supposed to be rather a battlefield with emphasis, a clarification of what the situation looked like in 1939 and where all these episodes took place. I don't know if the local government is able to put any money into this as part of some form of cooperation. I know that this is one place that the local government is caring for, guardhouse No. 1 in Gdańsk, the 70 m2, the only place that the city of Gdansk is dealing with, to remind you of the battle of Westerplatte, has received in the last 20 years money in the amount of PLN 190 thousand per year. This is an ambitious contribution of the city of Gdańsk to the commemoration of Westerplatte for the last 20 years. Of this, 1/3 is spent on employees' salaries. Few of this, this guardhouse No. 1, which is a subsidiary of the Gdańsk Museum, within the framework of the so-called. outsourcing has been dedicated to the management of a private company called Polowa Kitchen, and its main offer, this Field Kitchen, is serving pea. This is a sensitivity to commemorating a place like Westerplatte. But I hope it gets better in the future. If we build this museum, it will also be an extraordinary attraction for Gdańsk, also a tourist attraction. People come to Westerplatte anyway, because they want to visit this place, and today very often, coming out of there, they are embarrassed to see what it looks like now, but they still visit them. The statistics show that after the Marian basilica Westerplatte is the most visited place, such a point place on the map of Gdańsk. So that I hope that this investment that we want to launch under the subsidiarity principle, because apparently because of the lack of sensitivity and the lack of determination, and the lack of willingness just to make this place look better... As part of the subsidiarity principle, the state must enter and simply help the city of Gdansk to properly commemorate this place, and once it is properly commemorated, we will all be happy And Poles as a nation, and the city of Gdansk, and citizens of the city of Gdansk. I trust that the local government of Gdansk also, because this place will no longer bring shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u69	Thank you, Minister. Please remain for a while, because the senators can now submit a question to the representative of the government on the agenda for a maximum of one minute. Before that, however, Senator Zdrojewska would like to take the floor. I'd like a corrigendum, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u70	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm just gonna... Minister, I'd like to correct. You have now presented a completely different concept of what this museum is supposed to look like than Director Nawrocki did yesterday at the cultural committee meeting. You left, and Minister Nawrocki showed us a video of what the rebuilt buildings in Westerplatte would look like, completely new, rebuilt, explained it several times and gave us the wrong idea. It is a common practice around the world that is being rebuilt and accepted, and you are talking about a completely different concept at the moment. I think there's a misunderstanding here. Gentlemen, explain this because if we were talking yesterday about a completely different concept of the World War II Museum than what you're talking about today, this is a very serious matter. Director Nawrocki is not the first time his film with buildings that will be built in Westerplatte... Yesterday, the principal bragged that he was showing it all over the world in science symposiums, and he was talking about how it was gonna look. And what you're talking about is completely different. Second line. Please do not really compare the museum in Auschwitz to the museum Westerplatte because the museum in Auschwitz is an example of such a museum, where even the brick has not been moved, where nothing is rebuilt, etc., because everyone cherishes it as a place of common memory. Meanwhile, the concept of director of Nawrocki, director of the Second World War Museum, relating to Westerplatte is completely different. And the third thing. Minister, if you mention the museums that... You traded museums for your last term. Minister, you're talking about the institution's vocations. You've been... Maybe there was, I think the Ulm museum is ready, but these are small museums. You haven't opened a large facility so far. The history museum is infinite, you can't tell me about it. But you know perfectly well that your predecessors can boast about museums, and this is a huge investment for Gdańsk, such as the World War II Museum. These are places of memory, these are places of patriotism. Among them is the museum of the European Solidarity Centre, which speaks of the most wonderful thing that we can be proud of, also the museum of Polin in Warsaw, which is also a wonderful example of the memory of history, we can talk about the museum of Chopin, which was built. You say you're building the museum of John Paul. II. After all, the government of the Civic Platform... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u71	Senator, I'm very sorry, but this is an ongoing statement... [[But I'm almost done.]] ...as much as what you said in the debate. But please... [[But let me tell you. May I?]] Well, Senator, in what mode? After all, this is typical of the debate, so finish. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mrs. Senator... [[The Minister benevolently spoke to me for 10 minutes, so that...]] But the Minister has unlimited time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u72	I'm just gonna straighten it out, that's the last sentence. The Museum of John Paul II was built by the government of the Civic Platform, a magnificent museum in Wadowice, to which the crowds come, and you have so far failed to... Not much happens when it comes to the Temple of Divine Providence to finish this museum, which was co-financed by the Ministry. That's all I have to say. I could count many other institutions and museums all over Poland, ready, done, dedicated, delightful viewers, and you can talk about what you're going to do after 4 years of work. I hope this doesn't happen, and the PiS won't rule the next term. Thank you. [[It will be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u73	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to refer to this? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Yes, right away.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u74	It seems to me, Mrs. Senator, that what I said about rebuilding this tiny cargo train station and the officer's villa, perhaps Director Nawrocki also mentioned part of the barracks, is not contrary to what was planned then and what Director Nawrocki presented, but I repeat that this is still for discussion and maybe it is worth to lean on this concept. I'm sure it's like the senator says, you have to take care of the original relics and emphasize them, teach them, show them, certainly not destroy some big constructions built on them. I would like to inform you in this thesis that some environments are more sensitive to historical and institutional policies, others less, for example. The creation of the Museum of the History of Polish Jews President Lech Kaczyński. The Museum of John Paul II will be opened this year, the Museum of Józef Piłsudski in Sulejówek next year. These are big investments, and it must have been a few years before they were built. Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka The ceremonial celebrations of the Day of the Cursed Soldiers on 1 March were already actually this year, and the permanent exhibition will be opened soon. So this kind of excavation, you can say, open up various kinds of museums thanks to the fact that we have been in charge since 2015, will take place.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u75	Thank you very much. Another question. Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u76	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm a little surprised by the tone of your speech, because you speak here as Minister of Culture, not just as a politician of an option. In this context, I have a question for you. I also regret, of course, that you are again trying to bid on which option or which part of Poles has more or less historical sensitivity. I do not think it is appropriate for us to bid in this House in this context. I think that all investments, and those about which Senator Zdrojewska spoke, and those about which you speak, are extremely important for the Polish people, just as the project we are discussing today is important. I am very pleased, Minister, that you have invoked the principle of subsidiarity, constitutionality, the principle which was included in the preamble of the Polish Constitution. Perhaps it is also worth paying attention to the article in this debate. 15 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, namely the principle of decentralisation of the State, in the context of the principle of subsidiarity. I would ask you, as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, to try to build relations with the city of Gdansk, with the local government and to build an agreement together, not only in the area of the honorary committee, but also in the wider context, in the context of creating the concept of this museum. Do you see the possibility? Does the ministry in which you work and which you are pleased to represent today in the discussion with us see such opportunities? Will it want to build a compromise and engage in talks with Gdansk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u77	Mr. Senator, these conversations are ongoing. I am still waiting for an answer on these three concrete proposals that I have made. I don't have that answer yet, but I'm counting on it. At the level of these institutions, such cooperation can be carried out and only Gdansk depends on whether he wants to take advantage of this offer. As for co-chairing, because I understand that such a postulate appeared here too, I will remind you that when the Museum of World War II was created in 2008 in Gdansk I stress: in Gdansk It was the decision of Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Minister of Culture Bogdan Zdrojewski that it would be a museum whose sole organizer would be the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. I didn't hear the postulates from the city of Gdansk then that something bad was happening in Gdansk, I didn't hear them say: we ask you to co-host this museum, it's in Gdansk, so we ask you to co-host it. I think that's when the right structure was created. The story of the story of the Second World War, but also of the Westerplatte and the entire defence war of 1939, this is a national history, not only local, not only Gdansk, but also national, therefore the competent organizer of such a museum and its subsidiary is the Minister of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u78	Shortly, Mr. Senator. Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, no, but the investment will be carried out in the territory of the local government unit. You recalled the history of that time, but perhaps, I do not know it, you may know that, I ask you this, the authorities of Gdansk at that time expressed their acceptance for this task to be carried out by the government of the Polish state. Perhaps today it is worth sitting at a common table and also developing such a consensus. That's all I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u80	I fully agree with the senator. Indeed, the city of Gdańsk transferred the land under the Museum of World War II built by Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Minister Bogdan Zdrojewski, there was no problem with that. And Westerplatte has a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question you ask is Senator Jan Rulewski. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] There's no senator? Then you're Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It was a little painful for me to think that it was only now, in your time, that these great museums, great facilities, in general such facilities, and that only the Government of Law and Justice is sensitive in terms of historical memory. The buildings that were created in Gdansk, namely the European Solidarity Centre or the Museum of the Second World War, were mentioned here, but in our time there were really many investments in the area of culture and museums. In Pomerania it was also the Museum of Emigration, and the Museum of Central Pomerania, the National Maritime Museum, which built several very important branches. That's what happened back then. I would never bid like this, because I think that in this area every government is doing a lot and that another brick is being added to this whole building of the historical memory of our nation. But I'd like to ask you a few questions that are related, I think, to this facility that we're talking about. First thing. Director of the World War II Museum, and the Westerplatte Museum is a branch just the Museum of World War II, stated that September 1 After that, the Polish Press Agency continued The foundation stone under the Westerplatte Museum will be erected. And there's always such a fear that it's not too fast. ♪ 'Cause it's not here yet ♪ Even the Minister is Hey, hey, The plans, no documentation, no construction permit, and the foundation stone is already laid. I'm familiar with this miserable keel under the largest ferry on the Baltic Sea. He's supposed to be built for probably the J.P.B., well, the J.P. herself isn't entirely convinced of it. That's what they didn't do for so long. Three years ago, this keel was solemnly consecrated with the participation of Prime Minister Morawiecki and there is nothing. As I say, I am in favour of building these museums. But isn't it better to wait for the documents, for them to be there until the project is ready to be tendered, and that's when the foundation stone is built up? Hasn't there been a false start on this case that just might lead to a misunderstood understanding of the whole intention? And the second question, also related to the context of the World War II Museum and the Westerplatte Museum. Besides, as the original concept of the World War II Museum appeared, it was considered whether it should be built on Westerplatte or even in Sandstone. I know, I remember because I participated in these discussions with Prime Minister Donald Tusk myself. It was decided that the World War II Museum should be where it is. It's a big, huge and beautiful investment. But the Sandstone issue is also one of the most important elements of the memory of the beginnings of World War II and the great murder on the citizens of the Republic of Poland. The Germans, too. Who were mass-murdered there. How, therefore, will the Sand Museum, which you formally appointed as a branch of the Stutthof Museum, be developing? Isn't it gonna be pushed into a margin again because now the central point is gonna be the Westerplatte Museum? As you can see these two elements, how are they going to connect? Because there was a fear that now That's 150 million zlotys, but it's a big expense. The focus will be on this objective. And on this occasion the question related precisely to the National Maritime Museum, which is a beautiful facility, dynamic. It is currently building its branch, the Museum of Underwater Archaeology and Baltic Fisheries in Łeba. And everything is beautiful, you can praise that things are developing, there is good cooperation with the city, as well as with various state bodies. Only that a tender has been issued for the construction of this museum It's a multi-year investment. But unfortunately, after the announcement, this tender was voided, two weeks or three weeks ago. There's a rumor in the head. I hope that's not true. That the argument for the cancellation of this tender was that there was no financial means for this investment. There's a rumor that you just have to raise money for other purposes and build this object that's supposed to be important from the point of view of historical memory. I don't want to develop it because there's no time for it. It'll just be stopped, stopped. Is there any chance to signal the people of Pomerania that the construction of this facility will not be stopped, that the tender will take place and the construction will start? And...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u83	Mr. Senator, let's get this over with, 'cause that's three long questions... [[Well, I wanted to ask them all at once so I wouldn't speak anymore, because it's like...]] The senator will have time to ask them in the next round, so calmly. [[Yes? Good.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u84	I see that we are expanding our discussion and we are starting to talk about the entire work of the Ministry of Culture in the field of museums or historical politics. But I will sustain my thesis. This is, of course, a subjective thesis, and you can argue with it. The fact that there are different levels, so to speak, is a sensitivity to institutional historical policy in different political environments. But I stress that I am talking about institutions dedicated to historical politics, not at all museums, which show just like this. fishing or works of art. Because of me, for example. It is not only that this sensitivity in some environments is not as intense as I wish. But I am also very concerned that there are postulates for the liquidation of important, deserved for the Polish historical policy institutions, such as. The Institute of National Remembrance. As far as the foundation stone is concerned, this is it. just a good idea to express such a will on the round 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II 'Cause laying the foundation stone is also just an expression of political will, which means that we're finally moving that we're finally doing something. And for such a celebration to take place. And thanks to this specialty you're talking about today, senators. And which, as you can see from its assumptions, simply simplifies, simplifies, shortens the various procedures It will finally be possible to have this open-air museum. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Senate Committee on Infrastructure, I even expressed such a dream that perhaps it would be worth asking for the 20th anniversary of the presidential decision to enter the battlefield on Westerplatte on the presidential list of historical monuments to have This museum is ready, which is the perspective of the year 2023. ♪ If it's the sandbox ♪ The subject of both of us very close, for obvious reasons. It was one of the first decisions made by the Minister of Culture, the decision taken by the end of 2015, as soon as we took over power, that was the establishment of the Piaśnicki Museum as a subsidiary of the Stutthof Museum, and the purchase of Prof. Pank's villa, one of the leaders, as one can say, of Polish intelligence in Wejherów from the interwar period. Trying to buy this villa from private owners Who declared that they wanted to sell it were years old, but somehow no one had ever been able to do it before. And this villa has a dramatic history, because the daughters of Prof. Panka, the twins, the teachers, were murdered in Piaśnica, and the villa itself was occupied by the Gestapo, which there, in this villa, was. In the cellars of this villa prisoners were often held, who were taken out of all valuables or furs in their underwear into the woods to be shot there. And it is this villa that the Polish state finally has in hand. Already this year, a tender has been launched for its slight expansion and reconstruction so that it can serve museum purposes. And I think it will be a very important point like the Pomeranian crime, because that's what you should call it. At the turn of 1939 and 1940. The Germans did something called the Pomeranian crime: 30,000 people were murdered, representatives of Polish elites, Polish intelligence, priests, uniformed services, and it was done in such a short time, from October 1939 to spring 1940. And it's the Sand Museum that's gonna talk about it. As for the National Maritime Museum, please be calm, because we are determined to build another important branch of the National Maritime Museum, the Fisheries Museum in Łeba. Here was rather the problem, that on the occasion of the tender it turned out that the money was much bigger than the money that was secured for this investment, so we just need to rethink it. And in the meantime, the current needs of the National Maritime Museum have also emerged, and things are very necessary. This is about the renovation of the "Daru Pomerania," and this is a very important issue for the National Maritime Museum, because closing the "Daru Pomerania" for a long time would reduce the profitability of this museum very much, very clearly. It is also about the protection of health and safety from the National Maritime Museum Because we're also introducing this new legal structure. So because of these needs, additional resources are needed. But the fishing museum in Leba is not at risk and we will certainly solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. Your next question is Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Three short questions. You mentioned that in addition to the local government and the state, the Treasury, there are other owners or owners in this area of Westerplatte. Are they acting like a community, protesting, demonstrating, or simply understanding state rations? Second question. It still sounds to me in my ears that we need to communicate. I would ask you to present briefly, at points, what this agreement looked like, e.g. who wanted this agreement. Of course, I'm talking about an agreement between the Ministry. General: State The municipality. And the third question. This bill is intended to approximate the opening moment of the Westerplatte Museum, speed up the investment process, as are other specializations. What do you think, Minister, who cares about the possible, well, emotional, or the inauthenticity of this bill? Who will be happy if this museum does not arise and does not testify to our historical policy? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I can't! I can't!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u87	You're welcome, Minister. [[Voice from the room: This is not right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u88	As far as the other owners at Westerplatte are concerned, these are both MSWiA and MON, as well as private property. Somehow we do not see any resistance from other entities to this specialty, the more that the special act assumes compensation for all owners who will have to get rid of this land for museum purposes. I mean, if it's like... about the Ministry of National Defence, it is thanks to this specialization that we will take over 2 important objects, namely the power plant from that time, the original, which is preserved, and the guardhouse No. 4 very important for the story of the history of this battle. Besides, we're probably gonna be laying a foundation stone on guard room four right now. And next Saturday, with Deputy Minister Skurkiewicz, Deputy Minister of National Defence, we will be together on Westerplatte and we will visit all these areas that will need to be developed in cooperation with the MON. As far as the agreement with Gdansk is concerned, I have already told you what our proposal to cooperate with Gdansk is. This is an institutional proposal, the idea being that representatives of the city of Gdansk have their part in the institutions that deal with what we are talking about. And it's a permanent proposal. Well, the World War II Museum Council will always be there. The organizational committee... I'm sorry, the museum building committee will be functioning as long as the construction is ongoing. But then you can also think about supplementing the World War II Museum Council with people experienced in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum. So this is a proposal for permanent institutional cooperation. Unfortunately, I have the impression that because of our determination to finally build this open-air museum, the city of Gdansk suddenly, at the last moment, wanted to build its own Westerplatte museum on its own ground. Ladies and gentlemen, that would not be good. Well, it would be ridiculous if we didn't get along and build 2 museums if one museum were built by the government, the ministry, and the other by the city. And both museums would be called the Westerplatte Museum. I wonder if there'd be a difference in narrative. I hope not. But that would be... Well, that would be simply out of all proportion ridiculous Polish public authorities. Westerplatte should be established in cooperation with all levels of the authorities of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War, telling the Polish beautiful history of the place. I think I answered the questions. [[The third question was rhetorical, Minister.]] If it weren't for the Specialist, the second museum would have been built. [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u89	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u90	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister, you know I ran this as the head of the committee. Spectaw is, well, a serious topic for debate. But it's okay, it's okay. It's okay. Then I'll have a hypothetical question. If this special law hadn't been passed, that shovel wouldn't have been thrown in, would it? And if the bill is passed, who's gonna stick that shovel? Because there's a suspicion that this special act has been prepared. I'm not saying it. I'm just quoting. To have someone from the government sticking that shovel right in the middle of the day... Well, because this is the point where it's said that the preparation of a specialty is political and electoral. That's the question. And now I'd like two more points, as if for the public... The Minister was kind enough to talk about you, Professor. Machcewicz, a prominent historian who is currently working abroad, and that maybe he didn't want to accept the proposal. Well, we remember exactly, because it was going through my committee, how you set up a new facility to get rid of it, unless you got a job offer, a normal man like that, a noble man, doesn't accept. .Prof. Machcewicz, just as you got rid of, of course, by combining the institutions, the director of Merczyński. But these trials, of course, you lost, and what was paid by the State Treasury are losses. So I'm standing on his behalf, even though he didn't authorize me to. Now I want to tell you... You were talking about this program board, about how it's made up of outstanding historians. Tell me if those people who created the World War II Museum It was an international group of prominent historians with Professor Norman Davies, with Professor Snyder in charge. Do they still work at the museum? And who are these outstanding historians? 'Cause, you know, like... I know one outstanding historian from Krakow, right-wing, very serious, Mr Andrzej Nowak from my high school. It's possible he's still... I'd ask you to answer that question so that there's no misunderstanding in public opinion. And one last question, it's a short one. Well, I asked you this question, which was provoked by the Seym minutes, in which one of the Members who spoke, a serious man, said that you were violating the article. 15 Constitutions Talking About... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Garrison has something... Because I'm afraid the Minister won't hear Mr. Lightning speak in his ear. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: No, I asked the senator for a brief consultation on your question, of course.]] Oh, thank you very much. In that case, Mr. Żaryn beat me, as always, out of the panth. He probably told Professor Andrzej Nowak about you because they are colleagues from the same formation, so to speak, the thought that I value, of course. And here's the last thing. Please don't let it rain that President Gdansk doesn't want to co-host this museum. If the museum is a subsidiary and is run by the Ministry, which gives the opportunity to finance all the great and beautiful activities, then it would be a little... It would not be very beneficial for the inhabitants of Gdańsk to spend additional money on this, because the creation of a new museum will be done by the branch of the Museum of World War II. And I think this... Oh, and in the end, I'd like to ask... It's dangerous. We have worked together in this culture, Minister, for 30 years and I am glad that you have spent so much money on Gdansk, of course in your ministry. But right away, there are voices: what about the other cities? You always have to be careful in this situation. I think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u91	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u92	That's the last one I'm gonna start with. Well, because I was provoked or provoked by the thesis that I supposedly was running some kind of war in Gdansk, I told how Gdansk was supported, and that despite a political dispute with the authorities, which... I'm about to tell you what they call us. Nevertheless, out of respect for noble, important places, out of respect for culture, for heritage, for monuments we support Gdansk. But I don't think you're gonna tell the senator that Krakow doesn't have support. [[I told you, Minister, in detail...]] You can access the Internet and quickly check... [[...should be avoided, Minister, such statements, because they may become the reason that...]] But that wasn't my phrase. [[...someone will suspect us of some kind of nepotism.]] Excuse me, but that wasn't my phrase. It was a strange attack, it was a very aggressive phrase about some wars which I supposedly conducted in Gdansk, so I had the right to defend myself. We try as part of grants, within the framework of 40 grant programmes, which the Minister runs, very fairly and evenly allocate funds to all regions of Poland in various fields of cultural and artistic activity or in the area of national heritage. As for the list of members of the program board, of course I will deliver this list to the senator. That's 15-person advice. In general, programme councils count 15 people. There are historians, museums, veterans, led by the prominent historian of World War II, Prof. Wolsza. This moment of discussion with Professor Żarin was needed because something was bothering me that Professor Żaryn was also on this council. He was there for a while, but he had to give up too much of his duties. [[And Nowak stayed?]] I don't think Nowak's on this council. Mr. Senator, I'm gonna deliver a full list because I don't have 15 names in my head right now. I am glad that the senator said that this ceremony of laying the foundation stone, putting the first shovel in will be done by the Polish government. I am very happy about this because I often hear that I represent the PiS government. The leaders of the local government in Gdansk on 4 June They were talking about the oppressive regime of the PiS. So I am very pleased that I hear from the lips of the Civic Platform that in Warsaw he is elected in democratic elections, with a serious and confirmed survey You can say, for now, in the polls. In the European elections, the Polish government has a mandate to exercise power. And this Polish government cares about Westerplatte, this Polish government wants this concern about Westerplatte to be shared by other levels of government, and we will certainly invite the owners of the place, i.e. the authorities of Gdansk. I hope they benefit from this invitation. [[But if there was no specialty, Gdansk would invite the government. There's a small difference.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Okay, Mr. Senator...]] How Gdansk invites the government to something worthy, e.g. September 1st at 4.45, this, Mr. Senator, is Prime Minister Morawiecki, a large part of the government, a large part of the parliament, there is no problem with that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, correct?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u94	Yes. Thank you. Minister, I used the phrase 'War', not 'War'. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Let's check the protocol.]] It's hard to say... your wartime, I said, I said, about war. It is difficult to call such a phrase aggressive at all, especially in the context of what the Ministry of Culture does in relation to the government of Gdańsk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Robert Gawel another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u96	Minister, let me ask you about the bill. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If this bill comes into force and if this construction starts, if the museum is built What do I wish for? It will be a museum that will present our historical narrative, the Polish narrative. And no one should argue with that. But this whole process, right now, from today and from the signing, I hope, by the president, before we start building, should also be the narrative around Westerplatte. Didn't you think it would be a good idea not to show videos of buildings and stuff, just to set up a serious international competition to design such a museum? Because that would also be part of our Westerplatte narrative.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u97	Mr. Senator, I'll be brief. There is a plan that, of course, based on some assumptions, because this is always done in the case of competitions, assumptions that we outline. An international competition for spatial development, architectural development of the area, but these narrative, ideal assumptions that should be found there, resembling historical truth, should be included in the design which, in the framework of the international competition, some intelligent, capable work would be able to present. That's the plan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u98	Thank you very much. Another question, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u99	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am returning to this opportunity of agreement. Because when you listen and read, it's always like this: an agreement close, and eventually everyone's splitting up. Tell me... and everyone wants it, everybody wants it, we hear that both the Minister and the President are trying to agree. I'll ask the Minister: do you allow this possibility, Minister? In addition to the participation of representatives of the Gdansk government in institutional bodies such as the Programme Board That together, together, not one against another, and together, together, with an appropriate share will be carried out the investment, of course, with the appropriate legal structure, the Polish government and the Polish local government from Gdansk? Do you see the possibility? That's the first question. Because I think it's... If you say that you don't think the government is the best and only investor to do it, and the government will be in the way, then further things will be a prostration, a certain policy and rhetoric. And second question, Minister. Do you know of any cases where the first shovel was dug into an undertaking where there was no project at all, no concept, no thought, just good intentions and intentions? This is where we build the Westerplatte Museum. Can you hear from the Minister, is there any possibility that the first shovel will be inserted... excuse me, will put a representative of the Polish government after selecting and approving the best concept for this area? That's when you stick a shovel in. That's how we start the investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u100	Let me repeat: we wish to cooperate with the local government of Gdansk on this matter. And the offers I've made, and I haven't gotten an answer yet... I'm waiting for those answers. This is a proposal for institutional entry and influence. The idea of President Dulkiewicz was different - for us to withdraw from the specialty. And that was supposed to be a compromise. Because it is impossible to withdraw from the specialty for a very simple reason - we want to organize the ownership structure in order to be able to realize this museum in general and not only in connection with 15% the area which has the city of Gdansk. So what were we supposed to do? Retreating from the specialty means that we do not have this area at all - not only from the city of Gdańsk, but also from other owners - and we cannot realize this museum. So it wasn't a compromise proposal, it was just stopping work on the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Defense War. If the city of Gdansk is ready to co-finance this museum in some formula, then we are open to it, by all means. We believe that this is such an important issue, an important subject that we are able to bear it ourselves as a Polish government, as a ministry, but if the city wants to participate in this, then there is no problem here. Let's not mix the concepts of cornerstones and shovels. The cornerstone is a symbolic act. You used Senator Fedorovich's words. And that's where we got a little confused. You're right, you have to dig a shovel when you know we're gonna lead a ditch into the ground and we know everything. The laying of the foundation stone is a more symbolic act. 1 September 2019 is to be a cornerstone, not a shovel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u101	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u102	Minister, the issues of shovel and stone have already been settled between us. I'm going back to the first question. I didn't ask for the president's position because I don't know what it was like. You said... Maybe there was another... I'm asking you not to talk about it. I ask another question: do you, as a representative of the Polish government dealing with the matter, allow such a situation that the city of Gdansk will not be represented exclusively in institutional bodies and will be a co-participant in the sense of not taking over the land by the State Treasury? Or is the sine qua non condition: we have to take over the land, then we can talk? Because I'm personally in favour of a specialty that makes it easier to invest. Taking over land from others can be easier. It's about some little bits... But I have one question: whether with the city of Gdansk, which has much to say here, also in the historical sense... Do you allow the Minister to do this: do it together? It's about this and this, but without taking over each other's land, and saying to each other: well, we'll take over this land in 100 years to prove our settlement on a project that should be realized.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u103	It seems to me, Mr. Senator, that building anything on the wrong ground is difficult, impossible, and the president said that she would bring the land to the building of this museum on condition that she withdrew from the specialty.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u104	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Bogdan Klich another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u105	I would like to know, Minister, what the future of Formoza looks like, because you mentioned the area belonging to the Ministry of National Defence, but you listed in detail only the former power plant and building number four. What about the infrastructure and the future of the unit?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u106	Mr. Senator, you know better than I do if we can talk about this in public, but since you asked me that question, I'll answer. Of course, Formoza will continue to function there, in areas where she invested, where she built her own infrastructure. These areas are not needed for the construction of a museum. If you know this peninsula a little bit, you know that the battle took place much further east from the monument of the 1960s, this great symbolic monument. The museum will not even reach this monument, because there was no battle there, nothing happened during the first 7 days of September 1939. The whole battle took place at the base of the peninsula, in the depths of the peninsula, about to the barracks, or more specifically to the ruins of the barracks. In places where there is a mound and which uses Formoz, there was no battle.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u107	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u108	I'd just like to ask you to say something. Is this a declaration from the Ministry of Culture, or will there be a special agreement between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of National Defence on this matter, or is it simply a decision of the government that you are communicating here?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u109	As far as the acquisition of power plant and guard station 4 is concerned, that will be an agreement, because it is not necessary MON. And as for the plots that are to continue to be used by Formoza, since the senator has raised this issue, it is necessary to speak openly about it. It's these plots that are excluded from the bill, they're not there at all. On the list of parcels under the specialty of these parcels there is not at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u110	Thank you very much. The next question you ask is Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u111	Thank you. Minister, you were talking about Westerplatte, about how people are embarrassed when they come out that it's embarrassing... Well, I understand that this is your opinion, and, in my opinion, very unfair. You said you were the city president as the city's governor on the county's rights, managing the Treasury's real estate. Yeah, that's true. However, in addition to the land of the State Treasury which it manages, there are also land owned by the city. We're talking about these 9 ha. It is right here that the president said that if she brings in this land... if you withdraw from this specialty, moving towards joint action... Well, 9 ha of land in the city also has a certain value. In my opinion, she said the right thing, and it's the right direction, which you don't allow, thinking that only a specialist can do the job here. It turns out that not only can this matter be handled with good cooperation. The last thing, the most important thing. Minister, the decision to allow investments in the construction of the museum seems to know who the Pomeranian voivode is. He's making a decision. When's he gonna make his decision? When will the relevant documents be submitted? What do they have to contain? It's in the bill. So I can say in advance that the decision will be made, in my opinion, no sooner than two years from now. [[Voice from the room: At least.]] The earliest in two years, in my opinion, because you need to know a little bit what it has to be, what content is, etc. It won't be here until September 1st of this year. Therefore, all rights, even to the ground... Well, they can only be purchased when the decision is made. She doesn't have to be final... Action shall be taken only when a decision is made and it shall be issued in two years' time. Not now. So for me, it's a little bit incomprehensible, it's the laying of the foundation stone, whatever it is. They called whether the first shovel or stone, probably in a common language, means the same claim that this law can have any effect on what will happen on September 1. In my opinion, there will be no decision to allow execution in two or three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u112	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u113	Mr. Senator, it seems to me that this bill describes the acceleration of all procedures, and it certainly won't take as long as you say.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u114	Thank you very much. Did... [[I'm sorry, but I'll ask.]] Please, Mr. Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u115	Minister, you have read the attachments required. I helped you with one thing yesterday because there was a mistake, a 1:500 map, a smaller scale, a bigger scale, it wasn't real at all. This is my help. However, what documents must be there... e.g. there must be approval of the geodetic division, since there are parcels. It all takes time, it's an action for at least 3 or 4 months. Preparation of the map, which must be up-to-date, etc. There is no chance, Minister, to do so at such an express rate within a year. That's not gonna happen. On September 1, there will certainly be no decision by the voivode to allow the investment to be carried out, that is what I am telling you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u116	But I am not referring to the fact that the special act will speed up various procedures, with the date of 1 September 2019. 1 September 2019 is the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II and this is a completely different subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u117	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] Dear Senators, I inform you that at the end of this item we will proceed to the examination of point seven, i.e. the law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of an agreement. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Sławomir Rybicki is the first to speak. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u118	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Law and Justice, the ruling party, right in front of our eyes and with our participation in the Senate, takes Westerplatte to build a museum there. The aim can be accepted, of course not, because it does not, unfortunately, implement this plan in a manner appropriate to other previous similar actions, i.e. forcefully and ignoring the voices of the protest, as well as proposals for compromise solutions, which contain very substantial and constructive proposals. This special act deprives Gdansk of the land on the peninsula, arbitraryly and forcefully interrupting a dispute of substance and a certain public debate in which Gdansk government developed some substantive concept. I think this is some value in the public debate, that you don't ignore this voice of self-government in such a way. The bill takes the city of 9 ha. Let me remind you, this is 6 plots, which in 1993 the Gdansk voivode Maciej Płażyński comunalized, and this is not the management of the Old Town, but the land which is owned by the city of Gdansk. They are, of course, there, as the Minister mentioned, land on the military board, Border Guard, Port, Maritime Authority, and it seems that in this area no special act was needed to influence how these objects, which are part of the Military Transit Component, which have been preserved in the original for so many years, were not properly or sufficiently exposed and used by the Treasury... But, in fact, the idea is that the government should introduce its own vision of Westerplatte's development, its own concept, for which it has already allocated a certain amount. I do not know on the basis of which analyses, which estimates this amount has been calculated, why it is 150 million, although it is known that there may be much more and should be much more when it comes to assumptions. I do not know on the basis of which analysis the government calculated this amount, because the vision presented by the current director of the World War II Museum is a vision of the reconstruction of buildings that existed before the war. It is not necessary that the name Disneyland appears in the debate, but already in the analysis of critics, including monument conservationists or experts in the field of historical transmission, there is talk of a kind of kitsch. In April last year, the Museum of World War II in Gdansk together with its branch, the Westerplatte Museum, presented plans which called the comprehensive revitalization of Westerplatte. The press conference with the participation of the director of the branch of the museum, Mariusz Wójtowicz, was accompanied by a demonstration of visualizations planned for the reconstruction of the Military Transit Component buildings. At that time, representatives of numerous media gathered could learn that the institution headed by the director of Nawrocki was seeking to reconstruct parts of buildings that were not destroyed during the Polish campaign in 1939, in order to reflect the character of the place before the outbreak of World War II. This concept is criticized by monument conservationists I've mentioned it. And art historians, because such a vision makes this place authentic, also covers up the signs of struggle. And during the Seym debate, surprisingly, there was no mention of rebuilding all buildings or most buildings. Rather, they were talking about reconstruction of the battlefield, the battlefield, the restoration of the condition of the end of the fights in 1939. In fact, we don't really know if it's about rebuilding the battlefield or whether it's about rebuilding the buildings. Because when it comes to the reconstruction of the battlefield, it is important to bear in mind that the mound and the monument that stands on it at the moment, a monument that reminds us of Westerplatte's heroism, would have to be destroyed. This monument is on the battlefield. Maybe it is worth mentioning here the concept which it had and still has, I think, the Gdańsk Museum, which has done a lot of design work in this area. First, moderation and restraint, second, authenticity. We want to stick to conservation standards and laws. Even if a majority of the votes would appear in the polls in favour of building a new Military Transit Component using gas concrete and plaster cartons, we would not agree to such dishonesty. You can't lie to the historical space and miss the irreversibility of its changes. This must not be done even at the cost of the well-being of a part of the public, recognizing that the reconstruction of destroyed buildings 80 years ago is a value in itself. Just as the historical reconstructor will never become a combat veteran, so the concrete cast officer villa will not be what it was in 1939. What we should do is restore the natural landscape as widely as possible by removing post-war raids. This will not be done 100%, because the expansion of the port and military unit has changed the shape of the peninsula and its formation in a permanent manner. High Senate, planned for September 1st, the laying of the foundation stone in the context of the chaos described This was already mentioned in today's debate. The lack of a clear concept, the lack of a plan for the development of the Westerplatte area and the unwillingness to cooperate with the government of Gdansk boils down to this matter as bad as possible. We cannot afford that in this symbolic place, which is important for every Pole, at the place where the Polish defenders of Westerplatte spilled the blood, it ended as in the case of many other projects, when a certain intention was ahead of the substantive plan, the substantive work. Well, that famous keel was invoked today. And maybe it's all about the aspect that we're not talking about today. To take full control of the celebrations of the anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. I will remind you of the incident two years ago, when despite the agreement between the government of Gdansk, President Paul Adamowicz, and the representative of the Ministry of National Defence, who acted on behalf of Minister Macierewicz Despite the findings on the scenario, very detailed The boy scout who was to read the appeal was pushed away by force, and the soldier who read the Smolensk appeal came into this place against the agreed agreement. Is it also a matter of pushing young people, scouts, Gdansk government away from this scenario, which is so terribly important for Gdansk and Gdansk? And maybe it's about influencing the choice of guests, just to invite those who are, in quotes, right. When the project of the specialist, President of Gdansk, Aleksandra Dulkiewicz, appeared, she repeatedly asked for cooperation, but it was also mentioned here, but very unilaterally. She was trying to find a compromise. I quote her statement: "I confirm Gdansk's willingness to transfer the property of the municipality in Westerplatte to the planned museum and, at the same time, to take over by Gdansk the role of an equal partner for the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage in the process of formation and then running the facility. Partner. What's the effect of the president's hand pulling out? Yeah, we know. There is a wall of resentment, such a hard, naked force that does not take into account this very important partnership, principles of cooperation and dialogue. We know this scenario already from earlier ministry activities, which concern the World War II Museum, which has been taken over by force. I don't want to get in the way of the minister talking about wars and how much good he did. I can say, in how many cases the Ministry of Culture has withdrawn the grants granted or did not mobilise the usual expenditures on various types of cultural projects which run the local government units of the Tricity. This situation that we are dealing with is another proof that Law and Justice actually has its own vision of history, its own historical narrative. It considers itself a monopoly in this respect and does not take into account that someone else, e.g. The local government might have something to say about narratives and historical education. Governments change, political narratives change, appeal texts change, but after these actions remain buildings and buildings, which, forever, long-lastingly enter into the historical landscape, into the cultural landscape of the places in which they are built. Finally, Mr. Senator Czerwinski... I'm about to file a motion to reject the bill, and I'm going to answer this rhetorical question myself, why I'm doing this. Well, I think that correct legislation precludes such action, in which the specialty, or force, is governed by an area that should be a monument to dialogue, compromise and common thinking about our history. Mr. Marshal, thank you. I'm filing a motion to reject the law at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u119	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can start by saying that: it could have been different. I mean, perhaps for the first time in these years of the rule of law and justice, the opposition may have come to the conclusion that there is an area of the national community in which we can meet mutual understanding, i.e. also with the understanding of the reason of today's government, which clearly and communicatively speaks from the very beginning: yes, we want to do quotes, because of course it is not an agricultural term. Polish historical policy. And it could be expected that where this crop appears to be fruitful for all Poles, the opposition would also like to join as an entity that co-creates this crop. Undoubtedly, the memory of the outbreak of World War II, as well as the whole course of World War II, is the lesson of history that we have been doing recently as Poles. And this lesson tells us clearly: we've been pushed out for decades. Because of the lack of sovereign state From the discussion about what World War II was about in Polish lands. Therefore, we must make up for it and also pass on this knowledge to all other nations, especially the European nations. We're all studying, ladies and gentlemen. It could, of course, be assumed that the vision of the World War II Museum under the direction of Professor Paweł Machcewicz is a vision corresponding to a certain stage of discussion on the course of World War II. I, as a critic of this vision, was one of the 3 authors of the critical reviews concerning the Museum of World War II, and I accept that in the context of that vision, which was politically supervised by the Civic Platform, Mr. Donald Tusk's government, was called good intentions, i.e. They wanted to become part of a modern liberal ideology that manages the European Union, and they wanted to introduce elements that would also show Western European countries more details about what the specifics of World War II on Polish lands looked like. But at the same time in that plan, really the most important in terms of assessing the governance of the Civic Platform as a realist of the Polish historical policy at the time, was dominated very clearly by such a contemporary, ideological aspect, someone could say that the ideological burden for Europe is all these claims. Unfortunately, also these religions, which for us, our formation, Law and Justice, relate to patriotic attitudes. The trouble is, we're all learning, i.e. We're learning that now I'm linking the first part of my speech with the second That... Well, the dimension of Polish patriotism understood by today's authorities of the Polish state is that we are undoubtedly in favour of a hard historical lesson concerning the course of the entire World War II. The attempt to join the liberal convention of the system of values today is inappropriate. Why? Because the liberal vision of historical memory tells us that history is a burden, that history is a ballast, to which we must stand as a party threatened by heritage. And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen... I am not talking to specific, sitting representatives of the Civic Platform here, because I know you and I often hear your wise statements about historical memory. But all that your formation has done during its reign, as far as historical policy is concerned, either there have been omissions that Minister Sellin has spoken of many times, and I do not want to repeat this whole list anymore. Or the introduction of a narrative concerning Polish historical memory, which was to say in the balance sheet that the past and heritage are a burden from which we are to be freed. A fundamental contention, gently highlighted by the Minister here by the word "sensitiveness," in my opinion, is that these sensibilities cannot be married. But luckily, we're all learning. After all, you sitting here, as senators of the Civic Platform, have full knowledge of the current historical needs of the Polish state, and this historical need is because it also involves the contemporary challenge of the security of the Polish state. We must have a vision of the transfer of historical truth about World War II as a vision of a united Polish nation on the most important issues, the principals. Well, it could have been different, I mean. You may have considered this specialty a dimension of a certain attempt to exclude the issue of World War II from the run-up to a political dispute. Why? What's the point of this country talking about the first shovels, who's gonna stand closer on September 1st and who's gonna stand further away from that shovel? Seeing everything in the perspective of a dispute in the political run is derogatory to these people in 1939. So I repeat, it could have been different. On the government's side, and this was also repeatedly declared by Minister Sellin, it is clear that no one wanted to push Mrs Dulkiewicz away from the shovel. This isn't a discussion at all. We, our ideal and government formation, are on a different level. We want to conduct a Polish historical policy, which is that we recognize today's reality. And there are subjects in which the opposition also has a chance to discern it, as do we. This is obviously a matter of will. And that is precisely: do you think that you represent this liberal vision of looking at history as a burden, as an inheritance that you have to stick to, but it is really a hump, or are we together and we are talking about that we are undoubtedly proud of our heroes, in this case proud of Major Sucharski, of Capt. Dąbrowski, of the soldiers who died there, who defended themselves in those conditions, which they tried to define, honor, dignity, Poland attacked by the Third Reich? Isn't that a good enough argument to consider that a common success is that, on the one hand, the government, by introducing a specialty order that allows the construction of a museum to be accelerated... Can't this be considered an invitation to cooperate, not a political rivalry? I'm really, really asking you. Gentlemen and senators, you are the authority, I hope, within your formation. Convince your political leaders, the leaders of the Civic Platform, that there are really topics for which you can say to yourself: we are Poles together, not politicians arguing about something about the fact that there is an election campaign that was, which will be, that there is a context for political rivalry. Well, it's sad. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say... [[Unfortunately, Senator, I'm very sorry, but time is up.]] Yes. I'd like to say one last sentence. Thank you very much, Minister, for your attitude here today, and not for the first time. It must be made clear, perhaps one of the Senators of Law and Justice will say... In short, I'm proud to have a minister like you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Waldemar the Member State.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me put it this way: what are we even talking about here today? Senators of the opposition should be ashamed. In a normal situation when the government offers the local government an amount of 150 million, the local government should be happy that it doesn't spend any money... [[Poland.]] [[Poland, not local government.]] Okay, but he's spending it in the Gdansk government. I'm not having a discussion with you right now. Gdansk should be happy not to spend the gold, and it will be worthy of commemoration of Westerplatte. Then I wonder what's going on here. It's simple: it's all about politics. And it's really embarrassing. There only a handful of soldiers, less than 200, fought for seven days until the ammunition ran out. Let me remind you that France, the power, has fallen in two weeks. And on Hel we defended ourselves for a month. And that's where the argument is? You say the museum does, but there's a dispute about procedure? What do those soldiers who fought heroically there care about any procedure? I regret the Polish state that only now will this special act be introduced. It should have been a long time ago. For over 20 years, there's been a chance to clean up Westerplatte. It wasn't made. Mr. Adamowicz ruled for over 20 years and did nothing. Well, I thought after Mr. Adamowicz's tragic death, Mrs. Dulkiewicz might change the line a little bit. Unfortunately, Mrs Frau Dulkiewicz leads, continues Mr Adamowicz's policy, and the policy in Gdansk is pro-German... [[Mr. Marshal!]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] In a minute, I'm not done. ...is pro-German and has been run for many years, as evidenced by German names. I recently passed the Border Rondo Free City of Gdansk. Where do we live? I remind you that Poland is a unitary country and there will be no Federation Poland, we will not agree to that. And I hope... You said here earlier that we wanted to start Disneyland, right? I'm afraid if you guys, well, I'm pretty sure... The Polish nation in the 2015 elections, choosing the rule of law and justice, interrupted the 5th partition of Poland, robbing and dismantling the state. And I hope that you will never return because you dream of federalization of Poland. The next scandal happened on June 4th. Yes? It's where your local government officials announced 21 as well. You want to dismantle the Polish state. We'll never let that happen. You are part of this policy, but there will be no Balkanization in Poland. You're part of this policy. You're talking about co-operation here, about the government... You've shown cooperation in the ECS. The ECS is managed by you, who came back from Germany, from Berlin. Now what? Will there be a Westerplatte museum and you would also appoint a German citizen or a German citizen to manage it? Historical policy is one, it is propolska, it is sanctity and you should separate from the current political dispute, as Prof. Żaryn said. This is outrageous. Well... I've lost a bit of a thread because it's hard to speak from Mr. Żarina. [[Go ahead, go ahead.]] [[Because of this Frau.]] So that I am surprised, because you are Polish senators in the Polish Senate, and you are acting... [[Voice from the room: How?]] ...as somebody said... [[Voice from the room: How?]] Well, I hope it's not gonna be... [[Voice from the room: How?]] Don't rush me. You should behave like senators of the Polish Senate, not just as if you were a German party. You're in Poland. And unfortunately, as soon as possible... I wouldn't even invite you to cooperate at all, because Gdansk government already had... Besides international policy or any government, the Polish state, not local governments. Self - government is called upon to serve local people and to deal with local matters, not to create international politics. That's why local governments aren't at all. You guys were in the wrong role at all. And absolutely... I'm still surprised the government made an offer to even pay compensation for this land. After all, the land is Polish country, the local government is also part of the Polish country, the state transferred this land to the management board. And now for land that is state-owned, is he still paying? But this is a secondary matter. I guess that's it for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Gawl.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We'll probably all agree that our historical knowledge As we sit here, those who went to schools and tried to teach honestly It's changing. Let us look at how history is presented today, especially the Second World War. 10 or 15 years ago, I never imagined I'd see the time... Some of the things that we do, Poles, they seem obvious, they're not that obvious at all. But the problem isn't the way they look at the history of Germany, the English or the French, but the problem is how we look at our history, how we teach the young generations of this story. If we don't reach for the historical truth Just here, in the case of Westerplatte, to this symbol of Polish heroism, patriotism, sacrifice Unfortunately, we will lose in the message to young people what is so important in building a community. After all, we must base our community on something. And we have something to brag about in history. I think that if we want to be taken seriously as a country, we must also have a serious historical policy. I've seen a lot of museums in Europe. I'm going to share such a brief reflection. To attract a young man today, to encourage him to take an interest in events from many, many years ago, about which his parents are unable to talk about, which even his grandparents are no longer able to talk about, because it has been so many generations already, not only must there be attractive forms of communication in school, not only must there be a teacher who will be interested in the subject, but there must also be institutions, there must be institutions that will talk about it. So they're going to have the right narrative of our state rations, connected in such a great space of history. Westerplatte is such a symbol. Look at how much the German government, German television, German institutions are trying to conduct their own policies. If someone was in Bonn and saw the House of History of the Federal Republic of Germany, he could see how much this historical narrative deviates from our knowledge of how World War II happened, how Germany was rebuilt after this war. And yet they do it in a determined way, using large amounts of state resources. Our mothers, our fathers, are doing exhibitions in Brussels and Berlin, which very, very disagree with what we know. It wasn't that... The truth is different. I mean, it's not true anymore. The point is that we can talk about history right here in Poland in the right way. And I think we need new institutions. Each of these museums In Poland or in the world He's got some other message. It tells a different story about a museum built in Warsaw called Polin, in which there are actually no artifacts, and the Museum of the Battle of Verdun looks different, a powerful complex of objects including a cemetery, an integral part of this museum. In turn, the English tell their story wonderfully at the air museum commemorating the battle of England. How do you show a battle story like not at the airport? In three days, there's gonna be a big show of flying legends, and there's real airplanes coming. 100,000 people, young people, watch it all, experience it, parents tell them about this story. More and more Poles visit this museum. A Wonderful Museum I wasn't there. He's at Pearl Harbor. This is the museum of the battlefield. There's a bridge built over a sunken wreck, all those facilities that were bombed by the Japanese... Hundreds, thousands, millions of viewers come there every year to watch it. Let's go back to Westerplatte. Is there potential on this peninsula? There it is, there's powerful potential, there's huge potential. Is it used? Come on, let's be serious, everybody, while we're sitting here. It's absolutely not used. Why is that? Well, I could now tell you why this was happening for so many years that they couldn't communicate, communicate, and create a modern museum of battlefields that would tell about all these events. What was the strength of the message of the Westerplatte still defends itself!, broadcast daily for 7 days? Wańkowicz went to Italy, where Sucharski was treated... I was created by the book Westerplatte. We've all read it. We know that it wasn't everything that Sucharski testified in this interview, because there were dramas, but this new museum should also tell about it, also about Capt. Dąbrowski, underrated by historiography. All this is due to young generations of Poles. Discussing whether the Westerplatte Museum should be built, whether the Polish State is taking something from Gdansk... It is not the 16th century, King Batory is not at war with Gdansk. Please understand that. ..the government....the government....the government....the government....the government....the government....the government of the government....the government of the government of the government....the government of the government of the government....the government of the government of the government of the government....the government of the government of the government of the government of the government....the government of the government of the government of the government of the government..... the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government........ the government of the government of the government of the government.......... government of the government of the government of the government........... the government of the government of the government of the government of the government............... in Warsaw is the Polish Government. It is not good that some city presidents are so strongly involved in politics, they want to exist so badly... I think this is a problem of today's Poland. Looking for permission... After all, I could draw arguments here, tell you where the authorities of Gdansk agreed and how the President of the Republic was treated at the funeral of the dead. President Adamowicz. Are we talking about cooperation? I think you need to hit your chest. It's a museum that's gonna be built, that's what this bill's gonna do. I think it is important primarily for our history, but also for those who come to Gdansk from abroad, from Sweden, Germany, England. It will be a monument to heroism and the Polish story of history They understood what we fought for, who we fought for, and how we fought. We all remember Gałczyński's poem about soldiers from Westerplatte. I think one day in this museum, one of these verses is going to sound strong. And those who are good have eyesight and hearing, heard pono, ♪ Like a buzz in the clouds ♪ ♪ equal step ♪ Sea Battalion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jarosław Oremski, please take the floor. But I don't think there's a senator in the gym... Then I'll ask Senator Dorota Czudowska... I'm sorry, Barbara Zdrojewska. I'm so sorry, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to speak in the discussion, but after the speech of the senator who ran to the Senate from your letters, it seems to me that talking in such an atmosphere, in the absence of any reaction of the marshal, when the senator comes out and about the President of Gdańsk, elected by the Gdanskman, says Frau Dulkiewicz, and there is not a single gentleman who, on behalf of the PiS or on behalf of the High Senate, would interrupt, react or apologize... There's really nothing to talk about in this situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was also surprised that such a discussion took place in the High House, the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 2019. I may continue to think a little of Senator Gawl, because my generation, our generation, all of us, when September begins, when we see the thriving heather, it's at least with me, but I think that with many of you the same... After all, we all had to know it by heart, Konstanty Gałczyński's poem about soldiers from Westerplatte. And the first verse is the easiest... Maybe I still remember. But I'm gonna read the whole poem today to remind you. The senator quoted one verse. Maybe it's still important when this poem was written. The September campaign lasted, the whole of Poland wept over what happened on Westerplatte, on the fact that after 7 days of the siege Westerplatte, however, had failed. And Gałczyński wrote this poem in 1939, we all know that. When the days were fulfilled And it came to die in the summer, ♪ straight to heaven ♪ ♪ They went fours ♪ Westerplatte soldiers. (And the summer was beautiful this year). And they sang, "Oh, it's nothing. that the wounds hurt so much, For how sweet it is to walk now For these celestial glades. (And on earth this year there was so much heat for bouquets.) In Gdansk we stood like a wall, whistling at the Kraut cannon, Now we rise among the clouds, Westerplatte soldiers. And those who are good have eyes. and hearing, heard pono, as he dangled in the clouds equal step The Battalion of the sea. And they heard this song: 'By' sunny time to exploit, We'll warm up on warm days on the paradise moors. ♪ But when the wind is cold ♪ and sorrow was circling the world, In the middle of Warsaw we will go down, Soldiers from Westerplatte. We Westerplatte have entered into our souls and hearts, it is our cultural heritage, our historical heritage, our spiritual heritage. It's our kind of national code, which we have a duty to pass on to the next generation. Our genes of this cultural, spiritual and historical heritage are monuments, these are museums, these are books, these are studies, these are history, these are symposiums, conferences, everything that will commemorate this symbol of resistance, the honor of Poles, which was the fight of soldiers on Westerplatte. And what does it matter to every Pole, it's... We probably remember, too, how John Paul II, being in Gdansk at a meeting on June 12, 1987. In 1987, before 1989, he spoke to young people: each of you, young friends, also finds in life some of your Westerplatte, some dimension of tasks that must be taken up and fulfilled, some right thing that cannot be fought for, some duty, a duty that cannot be avoided, one cannot be deserted, and finally some order of truths and values that must be maintained and defended as it is Westerplatte, maintained and defended in itself and around itself, defended for itself and for others. Westerplatte is the value and property of the entire nation, Poland and all Poles. I thank the current ministers of culture that Westerplatte are fighting for, thank you for defending the Polish Westerplatte. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u129	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj to speak. There you go, Mr. Senator, come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister is no longer here, but I'm also addressing him. What happened here from the grandstand by one of the senators... I would like to say a few words to President Dulkiewicz, one sentence. On behalf of those who do not identify with what came out of one of the senators' mouth, we sincerely apologize to you. Ladies and gentlemen! I subscribe to many passages from Senator Gawł or Senator Czudowska, because we need to be involved in an important element of the theory of the world, the existence of the world and nations. A nation that doesn't respect history dies, and history is a teacher of the future. And that's why during the break I approached Senator Zarin, whom I asked: in which part of the definition of liberalism, the classical one or the modern one, one of the representatives of the liberal world has ever said that history is a burden on liberalism? And what did you say to me, Senator Żaryn? He said, you know, I feel like it's in your heads. There's a doctor! Doctors are missing in Poland today. Perhaps Mr. Żaryn will become a doctor instead of a historian, because he sees without anything what people have in their heads. Ladies and gentlemen, no one questions the necessity, the need from the heart, history and future generations of the Westerplatte Museum in Gdansk. I haven't heard or heard anyone questioning this venture. Do you understand what the dispute is about? I would like to ask you, on this one point, to understand what the dispute is about. This is an undertaking which should be a joint venture of the Polish government and Polish self-government from Gdańsk. And in our questions, we called for the Minister to give hope. But in answer to my last question he said, so I read this statement: yes, the best solution will be when the Polish government will be the only investor. It will go fast, I understand, smoothly, and the local government will watch and be invited to the ceremony. There are people to whom it suits. But I say that self-government is an equal participant of all events, including those connected with Polish history, with Polish museums, with Polish events. In the case of such decisions, when making such decisions can always be stronger, so stronger, the one that has more ground, because it has 85% He should be doing everything he can to make a deal. I didn't get through to President Dulkiewicz, but I will get to the bottom of whether President Dulkiewicz made a condition: you will withdraw from this bill, we will leave or we will pass on the ground. If that's the case, I regret it. But I think that in the sense of idea the bill also has its values, because it significantly shortens sometimes unnecessary dragging the investment process. And the whole argument is that 2 equal partners sit down for a conversation and set themselves the goal: we will not leave the meeting until we reach a compromise. And the city of Gdansk wants to be a part of the construction and development. There's one thing, the only thing. Is that so hard to understand? Is this how you must convince that this is an important investment? Under all the elements you move, we sign. This is one of the most important historical investments in Poland. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: why do we have these doubts? Because in small things... Well, there's a start, a shovel... the minister says it's not a shovel, it's a cornerstone. Well, it's a shame the Minister isn't here. But I'll read it. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you'll be able to get to that speech. What is the cornerstone and when does the foundation stone come into being? The foundation stone on which the coals of the wall are based... Today, this is the first stone or brick to begin construction. It used to have the name of the builder on it. Today there is also information about the date of construction, the investor. The laying of the foundation stone is often linked to the ceremony of signing an erection act. If the minister of the Polish government says it's not a shovel, it's an erection act, and we don't have a concept yet, we don't know where, we don't know who, we don't know how... No steps that consist of laying the foundation stone can be taken. So what's the point of doing this so fast in September? Well, answer your own rhetorical question. I don't expect an answer, because everyone in this room knows what other issues Senator Gawel and Senator Czudowska raised. There are other issues. I would therefore like to ask that, at all costs, we seek agreement on the agreement on the mobilisation of this important investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u131	Thank you, Senator. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it's a shame that this debate, and before that, the questions, were in such a confrontational spirit. This is a case that should look very different here in the Senate. I think maybe there's still a chance. Although it's probably not enough to make it happen differently. I think there are few words that so unambiguously sound in the ears of most Poles. Westerplatte is a word that doesn't require any definition, because we all understand it. But that's it: everybody. Westerplatte belongs to all of us. The crew defending Westerplatte, or actually Poland, against the German storm, this handful of about 200 people who opposed the huge German power from water, air and land, were people from all over Poland, today and that which is already outside the borders. Major Sucharski was from Małopolska, Capt. Franciszek Dąbrowski was born outside Poland, but also Well, let's see. He was staying in Małopolska. Probably among this crew there were several Gdansk men, especially among civilian workers, who were also there, but soldiers were from all over Poland. And it seems Westerplatte is waking us up. At least I can say that about myself. 2 unambiguous associations. One association, the most obvious association that has accompanied us since childhood, is the defence of Poland against German aggression. There are two hours actually, which most Poles remember, that is 4.45 and 21.37 . The first is the hour when the first shot came to Westerplatte, the second is the hour of John Paul's death. II. It's no coincidence that we all know these hours. This 4.45 and next week, these 7 days, is an unparalleled demonstration of sacrifice, heroism, best understood patriotism. That's how we see it. It seems that, in the context of this first issue of memory of these soldiers, we have a clear duty to remind ourselves of the truth at a time when it is often denied. And that's why we have to commemorate it. There's another opportunity that seems to me that the overwhelming majority of us are associated with Westerplatte. This is a visit. John Paul II in this place in 1987 and a meeting with young people, during which he spoke memorable words, already quoted by Senator Czudowska, about the fact that each of us finds in our lives some of our Westerplatte, which must be maintained, defended in itself, around itself, defended for himself and for others. It seems that it is such a strong message that it must be properly commemorated in that place. Both of these messages, both of these issues, both the heroism of soldiers and the visit of John Paul II and his message to the youth, are of course of a non-local nature, only nationwide, and even, I would say, universal. One can say that in some sense the visit of the Pope at that place led to the necessity of such universal perception of this place, because the Pope, when he spoke to the young people there about the fact that everyone should maintain and defend some Westerplatte, understood as a set of tasks, values, etc., etc., showed that it was not a local incident, but that these soldiers defended something that is bigger, more important, which is important for all humanity, for the whole world. It is quite obvious that it is necessary to accelerate, because time is flowing, human memory is passing away. There are various examples of what it looked like. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2004 the Warsaw Uprising Museum was opened by the President of Warsaw, then Lech Kaczyński. Do you know when the Warsaw Uprising Museum began its activity? In 1983, ladies and gentlemen, but only on paper. There was no museum. Right? It took decisive steps, speeding things up to get the museum to work. Today, this museum is visited by hundreds of thousands of Poles and people from abroad and nobody denies the need for its existence, its obvious value. When in 2016 the Museum of Poles was opened in Markowa, who devoted themselves to defending the Jews, the Ulm Museum... It's worth a look here, too, when the museum was built. It was created in 2008 for 8 years, and it is a small object... We're gonna need an acceleration. If we look at the Westerplatte case itself... We know that for 20 years after World War II, there was no commemoration. When the monument was finally built there in 1966, then... You may have considerable doubts about what he looks like, what this monument is, what it says on it. I do not know if you know that it was unveiled on 9 October, the anniversary of the Battle of Lenino, and Lenino is mentioned on this monument. Someone would like to ask: what does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill? There are other things on this monument, among others. There's a Soviet soldier with a pepsi on the top. Right? There is even a mistake in the name of the Gdansk Post Office, because it is written "Poczta Gdansk" instead of "Poczta Polska" in Gdansk. Well, there are some things that prove it... Besides, when this monument was unveiled, the vast majority of Westerners were not invited, and only a few of them were selected. So it's all gotta be fixed. Ladies and gentlemen, when are we gonna do this? In 10 years, in 100 years or so. Never a saint? This has to be done quickly. And it seems that it is so obvious that it is worth to unite around this idea. Maybe this is just a moment to forget the various bad words that have come to pass here, and together to decide what is so important for us, for future generations, for Poland and for the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! I'm just going to say that as far as the need to build a museum is concerned, no one is questioning it, but when it comes to the way, mode and how it's done, it's obviously a little embarrassing. The senator was just talking about unification, saying, let's try again! Well, let's try, let's try, let's just get down on the ground with all this and think about what we're talking about. Well, you're saying And that's what I heard, and the minister said it, although at the committee meeting where I was, there was no talk about it. On September 1st of this year there will be a laying of the foundation stone. But I ask: what, what stone, what investment? What is it? You think the Specialist will do everything. Yes, there are certain acceleration modes in the specialty, especially as regards administrative action, but I will give you an example of highway construction when decisions were made for highway implementation, and also for every section... Well, here's one investment, so there's only gonna be one permit, and there's gonna be enough paperwork for every section to prepare, so the voivodship can make a decision, so-called. ZRID, a permit for road investment. Here will be a permit for another investment of the museum. What must we do first, ladies and gentlemen, so that the voivode can make such a decision? What must we do first? A request for a decision must be made. And what must be in the motion? And I'm just going to give you a few examples here, as much as I can at that time. What must be in the proposal? There must be a definition of investment and this must be shown on specific maps. And it's defined in this law, too. On which map It can be done. Of course, it has to be a current map, a fundamental map. Maps are essential for some areas, and for some there are no For non-invested areas, most of them are gone. Therefore, the Act provides that if there is no basic map, this can be done initially on a 1:500 or more registration map. And here, if it wasn't for my attention and not for my observation, it would be a dot, that's it. And there would be no way in the light of that that we could get a decision to implement it. But fortunately there's an amendment, there's a scale of 1:500 or less, not a larger scale, because the scale greater than 1:500 is 1:200 or 1:100, and there are no such maps, such maps are not made, there is no possibility. So there was an error here, you have to write about the scale to change it to or smaller, and a scale smaller than 1:500 is e.g. 1:1000, 1:2000. And it's already real, it's already possible. So we have to put together a map like this first. But aside from some other things... Here I turn especially to the builders, because point 4 says: Four copies of the construction project together with the certificate referred to. I'm sorry, I heard this discussion today, but when we get to the stage... We're talking about a concept, a contest. You want it to speed things up. But when, if it's not done? So you need four copies of the construction project. When? You have to, for example. environmental decisions. There are many listed points, among others. water law and other things. Please read what is written in this Act, there are 14 points listed. And that's all you have to put together. It is only after this is submitted that the voivode has a limited time to make a decision on the opinions which she must collect. 'Cause now, instead of a deal, there's only gonna be opinions. And again, it takes a few months for all of this. And, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no decision. This bill's gonna be dead for now, 'cause it's gotta be done. We just know that in this mode it will be prepared. Because what's going on? Well, it's mostly land ownership, land ownership. Well, that's clear. I heard the Minister say... Indeed, it is true that the State Treasury is managed by the president of the city in the city on the rights of the county. And there's a part of the land that's managed. But there are also land owned by the city's office. I didn't check it out, but it was 9 ha. And it's something the city could have brought into this museum, it's shared... But it turns out the government doesn't want to. We're gonna do this ourselves, we're gonna take this land away from you, but for that, we're gonna have to have a specialty, because otherwise... So the purpose of this specialty is obvious. It's just... Sure, you have to sort out the area to apply for permission to be the owner, and if you don't, you have to have permission from the owner... It is therefore clear what the purpose of this specialty is. And of course, it's not that this town's land will be taken away, no, the bill provides that it will be for compensation. That's why there's an asset valuer who's gonna be asked to make a valuation of this property. Nine ha in a place like this... I don't know, I'm an asset valuer, but it's hard for me to do a quick analysis right now, because I don't know what the prices are at this point, and so on. I think it's probably a few dozen million zlotys, so orientally, for these nine ha. So it has to be done, and it's going to have to be paid. Well, who pays at the end? At the end, he'll pay the voivod according to what's agreed. The governor has the last opinion, because, as I recall, there is a two-month deadline in which you can try to make a deal, but I suspect that this will not happen in this atmosphere as it is, so you will have to pay. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying this: do not say that this law is necessary and necessary, because it is absolutely not necessary, it will not change anything here, it is only about 9 hectares of land, because all the others are in the hands of the Treasury and there is no problem with that. It could have been done in consensus. What the senator said just now. That's right, I think that's the way it should be and that we could have made a deal about it. Well, unfortunately, according to what I saw at the committee meeting, from various conversations, etc., there is no consensus. I think there's still time to think about whether it's worth voting on a bill that's still not going to change anything today. In 2 years it will speed up, of course it will speed up the adoption of the decision itself, because there are administrative deadlines, there are simplified deadlines, e.g. An ad in the press, etc., you don't have to notify the owners, so these are some simplifications... Well, it still takes time. I can say in advance today that this decision that would allow the ground on which it will be laid... Well, I don't know, unless it's on the State Treasury, I don't know where it's gonna be, but it's definitely not gonna be the city's... 'Cause when does the land go to property? At the time of the decision to implement the investment... At this point, the land becomes property, not when the final decision is made, but when the decision is made. Then there are all the perpetual accounting procedures that are being carried out, etc. So when's it gonna be? Today, when I asked a question, I said maybe two years from now, but I don't think so. In two years, it's... If we're not talking about the construction project yet, and all these procedures are... I dare say it'll be three or four years from now. If we run and meet in the future term of office Maybe some will, maybe I will, maybe not, I don't know. This may be an opportunity for me to remind those of you who will be senators of what I said at the moment: in three or four years' time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u135	Thank you, Senator. Senator Waldemar Bonkowski. This is the second speech, Mr. Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Yes, briefly.]] You're welcome. I hope you can fit in five minutes. [[I'll fit in calmly.]] [[Voice from the room: Fifteen...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u136	Senator! High Izbo! I wanted to address Senator Czarnobaj's words, but I won't speak anymore because he's gone, although I want to say I have a name. My name is Waldemar Bonkowski, and I am proud of it. It is a Polish name, I am proud of my name. What do you want me to say? Gentlemen of the opposition are talking about a settlement here, that Mrs Dulkiewicz wanted to communicate. The government has addressed it several times, proposed an agreement, but unfortunately it has imposed a barrier condition. She doesn't want an agreement because she put up an ultimatum: withdraw from this specialty. Why? So we can discuss it again and again forever. I know we won't be able to do a lot of things now, because the 80th anniversary is very important, but if we didn't start with this special, we'd never start because that formation isn't interested at all. But maybe on the 90th anniversary of the outbreak of war. It's all gonna be done. I just hope the government doesn't just invite to this committee of celebrations that will be held... Because there could just be a political scandal. You'll probably be President Trump, and that's history. not only Poland, but also the world, because that's where the Second War started. It's a story. Polish and local authorities, mainly in Gdansk, are not reliable. We have an example, for example, of the ECS. The Polish government financed it, added, and when the ECS programme line was finally taken over by your website, things happened that it was supposed to be a museum of solidarity, and there the LGBT groups gather. I mean, it's not like it's even... I'm afraid what would happen if your side was allowed into the organization, it would certainly be a scandal. Well, the vice president of Gdansk said that the war was caused by a Pole who said one bad word to the Germans, and then the Germans... You see what the Gdansk authorities are capable of. They cannot be allowed to organize an important ceremony on September 1 because they will lead to an international scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u137	Senator Oremski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I recall this statement from the vice president, she expressed such a deep conviction that the war began with hate speech. And what I would say was a certain ideological thought, in my opinion it wasn't true, but it sounded a little different than the senator said. I have the impression that we have in this whole discussion a specialty dealing with an absolutely surrogate conflict. The first conflict is the collision of the government of the opposition. The government proposes something, there is immediate reprisal and doctrinal opposition of total opposition. I dare say that a certain programal and leadership weakness also causes an attempt to regroup certain opposition forces. There was a CODE rehearsal, and now, I think, there's a test... [[What does that have to do with anything?]] [[Where's the bill?]] [[Quiet, please. You're bothering me, and no one bothered you while you were performing.]] There's an attempt at building a conflict axis on the local government line right now. The government. I believe that this is a harmful dispute, that this is the second replacement war. I realize they're the faults of the current government with regard to the government, but so far, Or, in the long term, from about 1990 to 2005, some power of self-government was apolitical. It has ended to some extent, at the moment a far-reaching political declaration is required, which does not serve local governments. And it seems to me that the government side takes Gdansk as the leader of this fight with the position of the local government... Hence so much resistance to the project we're talking about right now. I would say as a former self-government officer that if the government side comes with an offer to build for 150 million zlotys anything that will increase the chances of increasing tourist traffic and thus also spending money in a given city, then any government would agree. Even now, when there is a contradiction of political interests between local government and government authorities, there are places in Poland where they go to get along for things important to the Polish state. Such a thing, for example. In Wrocław, it was President Dutkiewicz's handover in agreement with the rectors of the higher education ministry of the EIT Plus Centre. There was no talking about annexation and other things. This language, which, as if confronts, indicates that the local government is outside the state, is dangerous for both sides. You can't say that. Third thing. Well, I have the impression that this is a surrogate conflict, which is the same as before, three years ago, when a change was made to the directorate of the Second World War Museum. I was trying to figure out where the conflict line was. And I have the impression that it was an ideological conflict. And here's a little digression. There was an attack on the minister that we all had some patriotic, historical sensitivity, etc., etc. I'm going to say in a simple way that I think there's some conservative sensitivity, it's liberal, and it's socialist. Each of us is a hybrid of these different sensibilities, in each group there is such, not another sensitivity more. Surely there is such a view in conservative thinking that the past is extremely important and stands for us and creates our identity today. There is liberal or neoliberal thinking, and it is enough to read Marcin the King, who approaches it in such a way that history is a restriction, is a curse that takes away our freedom. And there's a socialist thought in which there's a belief that through history you have to build a new man. And you can sort of look for what kind of sensitivity more governments or ministers have. I think that the dispute about World War II, about the image of World War II, about the shape of this museum also depended on something like this. At the time I understood that it was... that the story of Mr Machcewicz, the previous director, who had no experience in building any museum, was an attempt to show the horror of the war from the perspective of civilians. The opposite is to show war in terms of heroes. Looking at Jan Rulewski and Bogdan Borusewicz here, I would say this: one can say that the hero is someone who accidentally found himself in some demonstration, was beaten, on our part is as if a certain element of respect for the suffering of this man, but in some state thinking it is your attitude, the people who made an informed choice and decided on difficult things, to be an example for the next generations. And thinking about World War II, which was supposed to show heroism, is an important element. The second element, which I believe was the cause of the argument, was what the Polish state should spend money on, building such a museum, as far as this element related to the Polish contribution to World War II should be shown. I understand that there was a very big dispute about that, too. We obviously had this discussion yesterday. Both the current director, who, I believe, in many elements was very aggressive with his predecessors, and the previous director, who, as I was impressed, mentally enslaved to this museum and could not agree with another concept of what was going on... And this was reflected in the arguments concerning Burego, the equalization of the Paris Uprising with the Warsaw Uprising, etc. There was an exchange between them. I think it is absolutely fundamental: is Westerplatte Polish or Gdansk? I would say this: along with the course of Westerplatte's history it happened ♪ and it's like, "Oh, The nationwide, just as solidarity agreements are nationwide, although both are connected with the city of Gdansk. Our Wrocław camp, in which Wrocław's Solidarity was born, is local because we were as if secondary to Gdansk. And that's the shift of those accents. If we're talking about subsidiarity, I'd say this: there's something about this element as if... This really is national space. Mr. Florek points to a very long procedural path and says that we think this bill will do everything. No, this bill is supposed to make it possible to speed up the first step. It's just something like that. The important question is this: do we want to commemorate this place in a worthy way? If so, we should agree to that. So far, we have as if the answer is that little or almost nothing has been done about it, or literally nothing has been done. Will the others do it? We don't know, but we have to give it a chance. I can only agree, which isn't obvious to me... Mr. Florek started with the word, of course. I'll agree with Mr. Flork that the government's side is overreacting. Each individual case I am able to understand, but a collection of such extraordinarily not quite. But the basic question is, do we want something good to happen there, or do we want to give it a chance, or do we want to block it? That's all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Who are you talking to?]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome to approach... You don't have to scream all over the room. [[I thought it was a break.]] There's no break. Mr. Marshal will be speaking now, so please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not a good way, Dear Senators of the PiS, such a special act, special act, means the use of tools such as can be used and which were applied to important economic investments. That's what they used to be. We now learn that such a law can also be applied in the case of important historical sites and important historical anniversaries. Well, I repeat, this is a confrontational situation. Westerplatte should connect, not divide. Until this law appeared and there was also a certain situation on the anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, Westerplatte was connected. What's this bill doing? She's dividing us. It's clear. She divides Poles, she divides the local community, she creates a dispute around a place that should connect. If there was any garbage in there, you should have picked it up. You don't need a bill like that for that. In 1967, I organized a 2nd class trip at my school, and we went to clear the battlefield. We did what we could do without big words, no banners. We, dozens of students from plastic high school in Gdynia-Orłowe. We have a law that takes care of the land of the local government of Gdańsk, and that's what all ideology, sharing ideology and not connecting ideology is added to. He cares about this land... he wants to take it away, breaking the constitution. Art. 165 of the Constitution Polish says: The local self-government units have legal personality. They are entitled to property rights and other property rights. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 of this article: The independence of local government units is subject to judicial protection. So what? Can you take the bill? May I? Yes, you can. And if you can take a local government, you can take a private one. I don't know. You're in a lot of rush with this bill. Because it's not only a special law that violates the general principles that I'm about to say, but it's also a law that's passed in the shortest possible time. Hurry, hurry, hurry! Plus, it's a parliamentary bill, because that's what it's called: a parliamentary bill. What's the ownership situation on Westerplatte? What is the situation of what remained here after 1939? Well, a significant part, 1/4 of Westerplatte territory belongs to the Border Guard and the army. And that's where the original relics from that period were preserved. There are buildings. There is a port built by Poland for the transport of weapons and ammunition, this port is. There was also a shaft created from a boulder from this port, a shaft that was supposed to protect against bombing. So this is the original part. But from all of this, the legislator or the current government wants to take over Wardrobe No. 4 is the original guardhouse that's been preserved in the original place. And the power plant. The rest will continue to function. Not as part of a museum, but to be cut off from this museum. If the government wants to create a museum, a museum or try to do something together, it should start with this area, which is an originally built area, and start there creating this museum, rather than just trying to take it away, to take away from the constitution what belongs to the city and where it is the duty of the city to commemorate it so that it looks appropriate. This is an example... This bill is an example of a confrontational policy of the PiS, not an attempt to reach an agreement. Speculation is an exception in the system of law. Here, this law shortens terms, restricts property rights, abolishes regulations regarding the Land Planning Act. All of this will be subordinate to the voivodeship. Numerous exceptions to the rules that apply should not be introduced. This can only be implemented in a necessary situation. This is not a necessary situation. According to Art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Marshal's Rules of Procedure shall direct the draft to consultation before being referred to the first reading. This requirement has not been met. That is the opinion of the Senate Chancellery. It's just that the legislator doesn't care about anything. He doesn't care about the rules, he doesn't care about the constitution. So what can be done in this situation? I have repeatedly appealed to reason, asked to analyze before making a decision. The Ministry of Culture announced that it would create a museum of the Polish-Bolshevik War in Ossów in 1920. Where's the museum? It's moved somewhere else. Why did she move to another place? That's the question. This is a question to Mr Smolinski from Pomerania, from PiS, and to Mr Sellin, who is also from Pomerania. But why have they decided to introduce a law that causes serious conflict at national and regional level, a law that breaks down the substance of a community in the region and also in the country? Because Westerplatte is not yours or ours. Why do you think that can be done like this? But I, despite my... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm almost done. [[It's been ten minutes.]] However, despite my sceptical assessment of Mr Smolinski's goodwill and Minister Sellin's, I would like to make an amendment to the Committee, which is to jointly supervise the creation of this museum, to which the representatives of the Minister and the representatives of the city will enter, and in which both sides will have the opportunity to present their assessment. [[Time, Mr. Marshal. Maybe an extra five minutes...]] And I take that as a test of the words I heard from the representative of the PIS that you want an agreement. We'll see if that's true in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Krzysztof Elephant. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u142	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I will also vote for this bill because the vast majority of Kielce residents would vote for it. Kielce is specifically related to Westerplatte, because more than 80 years ago, in mid-March 1939, it was from Kielce that the last change of soldiers, from the 4th Legion Infantry regiment under the command of legendary pore. Leon Spider, and in Kielce the fourths are honored and honored. We all want Westerplatte, apart from being a monument and a tribute to the action of a Polish soldier, to the steadfast spirit of Poles, to be also a glorious monument to the action of the fourths. The same four who still deserved to be legionaries, then in the Polish-Ukrainian war. The same four who were so bravely defending Westerplatte, because they were well-trained soldiers. There were a lot of great aiming ckms and great mortar service, which, as we know, was then the basic weapon of our soldiers on Westerplatte. Therefore, it is good that this piece of Polish land, then so heroically defended, today has a chance to survive for the next years. I call on us to feel the responsibility of the moment. If not now, when we make Westerplatte a real place I won't hesitate to say it. A cult? We need to move this into the next generations, now, on the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, it's worth doing. As far as I remember, a dozen years ago, or 12 or 13, there were already concepts to do so with Westerplatte. History is experiencing, I think, at the moment such déjà vu, because then, in 1939, all Poland looked at Westerplatte. People in Poland fought with guns and did not give up because they heard messages that Westerplatte was defending themselves. Even though it was supposed to be for a few hours, it was seven days. It wasn't until the mass raids were in place that the defense attorneys laid down their weapons. And today Poland also looks at Westerplatte, how we look at this piece, then we will defend the heroically defended Polish land today for history, for future generations. I encourage all your senators to approach the matter in this way. Yeah, it's a porch. Leon Pajak not only deserved to defend Westerplatte, but also deserved for the later history of Westerplatz, he became an honorary citizen and Gdansk, and Kielce. I feel so committed to these boys from the 4th Infantry Regiment of the Legions, raising my hand today, also in this way for the next generations, but not only for those boys, because all those who Westerplatte then defended not for themselves, but for Poland and for future generations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u143	Thank you, Senator. Senator Stanisław Rooster. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy, at which the Member, the Minister, was present, there was also the President and the governor. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about World War II, about Westerplatte, about Westerplatte defenders, who really are huge heroes... I said we can't forget one thing. On Westerplatte were the first victims of World War II, military casualties, but let us also remember that on August 31, customs officers and railwaymen blew up the German armored train in Tczew. I said they blew up... The railroads put him on the sidelines. It's not like Senator Gawel said they blew up the bridge. And in retaliation, the Germans shot the customs officers, shot the railwaymen. Every year in Szymankow, because this act of revenge was in Szymankow, it takes place... Now it's gonna be the 80th anniversary of shooting the first civilians. And it's about customs and railroads. Senator Radziwiłł rightly said here that Major Henryk Sucharski was from Małopolska. Yeah, he was from Dąbrowa Tarnowska. And we must also remember that this heroic commander died at Naples in oblivion. Well, the Minister knows exactly what you'd call it today. In a health care facility. And he was actually a huge hero. After all, we all remember that the Germans did not even take away his officer's sword in recognition of his heroism. I took the floor today to remind you of the first victims of World War II, which were customs and railroadmen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u145	Thank you, Senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej. Please. Are you a senator? There it is. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! I have the impression that in most of the statements of the Senators of Law and Justice there is some historical and moral blackmail. You are trying to tell us that if anyone opposes this law in any way, it opposes a very noble idea. That's not true. As we have said many times here I told you. We object to the method that you apply when it comes to how you approach statutory changes, or actually partially constitutional changes. And so we opposed what was going on around the Supreme Court. We've always talked about an extreme, undemocratic method. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen... You're saying this is such a special case about Westerplatte. In the film titled: I'm talking about the old one, not the new one, that's what Senator Elephant called for. The words are that everywhere in Poland, Westerplatte messages have been listened to. Westerplatte still defends itself. On the other hand, I remember a scene in which on Westerplatte they listened to the words 'A Warsaw is defending itself'. It's now, assuming your logic... If you compare the hekatomba of Warsaw's victims, the uprising in the ghetto, the Warsaw Uprising... We talked about the round anniversary and reached a consensus about Warsaw. There's a resolution. I don't remember the Westerplatte resolution. Would it be anything less that you missed this country? So can I risk saying that the Warsaw issue is more important when it comes to the scale of suffering? So, are you coming tomorrow with the Warsaw Act, excluding the entire Warsaw area with a specialty? Well, maybe you're breaking constitutional principles for a very noble purpose, because it's really hard for you to refuse powerful patriotism, but who's to guarantee me that you won't come tomorrow to specialize in the whole of Warsaw as a place of worship? [[Because it's true.]] Well, as good as Senator Bonkowski's on your side, you can always hear right away what you're trying to do... [[Voice from the room: To the truth.]] I'd like you to think not so much about this one thing but about the exception to the rule. That's all I'm talking about. Every time you open a door that could be like a lock for the whole democracy. Many times here with Senator Mathematical... Well, we have very different opinions and very different positions, but each time on various topics Senator Mamytkow emphasized one thing that most probably this self-government bill, the first of these largest, revolutionary constitutional laws, is something that we have succeeded. Every time I heard it, and even though we're really different in the whole perception of the world, every time we agree on one thing. It's very important. It is very possible that, for a good and godly purpose, you will once again destroy this law with certain principles that should be sacred. They're more sacred than having to build a museum on Westerplatte, because there's something above the individual solution, and this bill And that's what we're trying to tell you. It's ruining it. Finally. I'm afraid that's another aspect of the fight against self-government. There were words here. Senator Oremski was talking about it. There's a difference in both concepts of looking at our shape. But I'm still gonna insist. I'm guessing to some extent Mr. Senator Oremski as a self-government officer. As long as he was standing on the other side of the barricade as Vice President of Wrocław My concept was close, no one interfered with it. It was not by chance that I told you about Warsaw, because the minispecustawa, again for a very godly purpose, you have already done. This was the case with the Smolensk monument, where it was disabled... It was decided by the voivode. And so, starting with godly purposes, you can completely dismantle something that is a very important vortex. I would like to wish you guys a moment when you're voting on this so you can think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u147	Thank you very much. Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not repeat the threads that have crossed through this room. But the truth is, the Westerplatte discourse is very present in public space. It wasn't that long ago that I found out. I talked to the inhabitants of one of the Podfolk villages and there was a discussion, why we as politicians touch the Westerplatte theme, why we want to organize it, why we want to organize it. Well, there was a conversation, and when I put it right, why Westerplatte is important. There was an argument that it was 80 years, and those arguments that appeared here. One of my interlocutors said very simple words. I want to pass them on and really encourage my venerable colleagues who still have doubts about how to vote to think about them. He said, "Well, you and Westerplatte don't really want to do anything other than what's necessary, nothing more than what's necessary." Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u149	Senator Klein? There you go. It's still for discussion, isn't it? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating a special law concerning the museum at Westerplatte, but this discussion in practice does not concern this law, but the entire historical dispute. Paradoxically, there seems to be no dispute. After all, no one denies the heroism of the soldiers on Westerplatte, no one wants to take away from them all that was done then. Often on this occasion This was the case in many of your voices in this discussion, you repeat also some false myths about Westerplatte, which spread in the times of the Polish People's Republic, perhaps even earlier, during World War II, while the historical truth was of course slightly different. It's about the fact that almost all the soldiers in Westerplatte didn't die, that about 20 soldiers were killed there. Of course, every death is just as important, tragic and dramatic, but it has to be remembered that it was a regular battle, a battle in which Polish soldiers behaved heroically. Some of them were killed, and the vast majority, almost 200 soldiers, were in captivity in the POW camps during World War II. It is quite difficult to get to the awareness of many of our compatriots, because some actually still think of Westerplatte as Galczyński, who in his poem speaks of soldiers four going to heaven in 1939. So to say, a little false legend reminded you of Senator Czudowska. As I say, today, a dispute between us, the Senators of the Civic Platform and the State does not concern at all whether to commemorate Westerplatte or to create a museum there, but only about the form in which you do it and the way in which you want to settle this issue. Because speaking of which, on September 1st, the foundation stone will be laid... It was Senator Czarnobaj who reminded us here, and I pointed this out in the question to Minister Sellin that the cornerstone is already a structural element of the building, which is a false talk about this reality which is. It would be desirable for this cornerstone to be erected in September, but this is not possible at all, it is difficult to implement. On this occasion it is also worth mentioning all the tragic events that took place in 1939 in Pomerania. We are talking about Westerplatte, but the defence of the Polish Post in Gdansk is indeed a dramatic situation in relation to what was happening on Westerplatte, because posters, post workers, almost all, a large part of them, were murdered by the Germans. In this case, connected with post defenders, posters, no international conventions, no law, no principle of decency were observed, and it can be said that in Westerplatte, however, certain elements of international conventions were respected, because soldiers were found in POW camps. Postmen were murdered, and for a long time they didn't even know where their graves were. Not much is said about the tragedy in Sandy I mentioned this in my question to the Minister. Several thousand of our compatriots, but also mentally ill German citizens brought to Piśnica from Western Pomerania, from various hospitals, were murdered here. It was one of the biggest tragedies of the civilian population in Poland. Including the so-called. The Pomeranian tragedy, with this Pomeranian murder, was a greater tragedy than the Katyn tragedy. I don't want to bid on anything here, I'm just saying that all the time this message with which we live, which we often talk about in the context of Polish history, is that some things are shown better, stronger, clearer, better, we could say, piarists And others are forgotten and pushed to the background. It would be good to remember all these great, tragic and dramatic events in our history, including the history that is taking place in Pomerania, in Kashubia, and which was in the legal, formal sense much more difficult, more complicated and more dramatic than in other lands of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Czesław Ryszka and Alexander Szwed made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Czesław Ryszka and Sławomir Rybicki and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, as legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications and the Infrastructure Committee to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Now for a brief announcement. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that after considering item six of the agenda, i.e. Act amending certain laws in order to reduce payment congestion, we will proceed with the examination of point 20, i.e. second reading of the bill amending the Housing Cooperatives Act. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of an agreement. The text of the act is contained in print No 1202, and the report of the committee In print No 1202 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the Law of 13 June 2019 on the regulation of certain matters relating to the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community under the Agreement. The adoption of this law is directly linked to the appearance of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community. The notification agreement was approved by the European Council on 25 November 2018. Its aim is to ensure that the United Kingdom exits the European Union in an orderly manner, thereby avoiding the associated disruptions and ensuring legal certainty for citizens, businesses and judicial and administrative authorities. The Agreement was to enter into force on 30 March 2019 but the political difficulties in the United Kingdom prevented that deadline from being met. These difficulties, Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, are the cause of the adoption of another legislative act which tries to regulate this sphere so that Brexit does not take an unauthorised form. We, as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, discussed this legal act on 25 June 2019. We present to the High Senate a resolution on this law and propose The amendments were adopted unanimously. Some corrections to the bill itself. Firstly, in line with suggestions made by our Legislative Office, we recommend that the High Senate amend the title of the law, because the law in this form is not easy to read and may be difficult to deal with. The Commission therefore proposes that the title of this law should be read as follows: "the transitional period referred to in the Agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community'. We also propose that the law be made clearer, that the article be deleted. 1 which is not absolutely necessary according to our Legal Office . Senators members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have shared this opinion. We also propose deleting the article. 4, which is also kind of obvious, because the bill deals with a certain situation related to the contract itself. Thus, in our amendments, in support of the Senate Legislative Office, we simplify this legal document and recommend that the Senate adopt it in the form that we proposed at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Senator in connection with the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wish to speak on the bill? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Code of Commercial Companies and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1195, and the report of the Commission In print No 1195 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act introduces a new company, namely the so-called "Commercial Companies Code', into the company's catalogue of companies listed in the Act. a simple public limited liability company, and therefore this is a completely new legal solution. It complements the catalogue of companies, which are listed in the Act, i.e. next to the public partnership, partnership, limited partnership, limited partnership and limited liability company will be the next company, called the simple public limited company. This is due to the fact that the multiplying, which is positive, start-ups should have such organisational forms as none of the existing companies will actually meet at the moment. Hence the need to create a new institution, a new company, so-called. a simple public limited liability company. It is characterised by certain elements common with the public limited liability company or with the limited liability company. The important difference is that there are some different solutions that simplify its operation, namely a new principle that the provision of work or services may also be the subject of a contribution to the company, which has so far been excluded by Article. 14 Commercial Companies Code, which explicitly provides that this contribution cannot be subject to the provision of work or services. And it is known that in start-ups that are now multiplying, the essence of the issue is often that the provision of work or services is a fundamental object, a fundamental contribution that determines the functioning of these institutions and the start of business. Unlike the public limited liability company, the classic one, in the case of the line we are introducing, there is no planned share capital, and I remind you that the share capital of the public limited liability company is already If I remember correctly, because these amounts change from time to time. I think it's 1 million zlotys. It used to be 100 thousand PLN, and at the moment it is 1 million PLN, which is absolutely impossible for those who start business. Therefore, we introduce the form of a simple public limited liability company. There is also a system, which consists in the fact that the shares are dematerialized, i.e. there is no need for a physical paper document which would present these shares, as provided for in previous solutions. Besides, there is a very simplified way of managing, so-called. monolithic management. It's a little bit taken from the British system. So there is not such a classic division as in the existing companies, where there is a board of directors, there is a supervisory board which is supposed to supervise the functioning of the board and the entire company, only the possibility of exercising and managing, and supervision by so-called. the board of directors. That's what I'm simplifying, because the whole institution is quite complicated. Let me remind you that this is 112 new articles that are marked as art. 3001/300112. Thus, this is quite extensive regulation, given that the entire Commercial Companies Code has numbered these articles 633. 112 new articles are quite a percentage, as you can see. That's why some people say that contrary to that name... It is supposed to be a simple company, but since there are so many articles, it may not be that simple again. But let's be optimistic. I think this new form should work. In practice, we will see how this works. At the committee meeting, the bill was accepted and there were actually no reservations. Of course, there are some proposals from the Legislative Office regarding certain amendments that have been adopted. The amendment is 24 and these are mainly technical-order amendments, there are no substantive amendments. We are grateful to the Legislative Bureau that certain inaccuracies, mainly language-editing, have been captured and noted, have been taken into account in the proposed amendments, which were fully accepted at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u155	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Pociej, and then Mr. Senator Komarnicki. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u156	I have a question for you. Does the senator know if the company's formation was preceded by any discussion, I don't know, on the codification committee, or were there any meetings, seminars? The Commercial Companies Code is a very old institution. Of course, it was revised and adapted to the needs of today, but each time all these changes resulted from a rather profound discussion in which the practitioners and the theorists of commercial, civil law from the largest university centers participated. I'd like to know if there was anything like that. That's the first question. [[If Mr. Senator could speak a little louder...]] Do you want me to repeat everything? [[No, in one sentence.]] Who gave the opinion? What are the names of the luminaries of commercial or civil law? Who's behind this? Is he even... Has anyone been talking to anyone about this? Who was involved in the work? Was the codification committee involved? Who's the author of this? That's one thing. Secondly, do we have such solutions anywhere in Europe? If so, I'd like to ask you to tell me where these solutions are. How much if there is such knowledge The amendments were in the Seym for this bill? Because I heard there was quite a lot, but of course I could be wrong. This is... [[Yeah, okay...]] These are the three questions I wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u157	Good. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u158	Maybe I'll start at the end. The senator asks if such legal solutions are in other countries. There they are. Since the senator is a French-speaking senator, I will say that there is such a company in France, société par actions simplifiée, introduced in 1999. Is it still in other countries? To be honest, I can't really name it, but I know that there are companies of this kind in other countries. As regards the issue of legal authorities, professors, unfortunately I do not remember the names, but the names of these professors were mentioned during the committee meeting. I believe you also attended the committee meeting, Professor, who is here. I'm sorry, Professor, I don't remember the name... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: I am a minister, but you were also a professor.]] [[We'll explain.]] [[The Minister will be able to answer that question.]] Good. I'm sorry, I mistook the professor for the Minister, but it's a good fortune teller for a future scientific career... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm so sorry. [[About the amendments. About the corrections.]] About the amendments... [[In the Seym.]] Like I said, the amendments are mostly technical-editing... [[But in the Seym.]] [[No, at the Seym stage...]] In the Seym stage. [[Were there, and if so, at the Seym stage, how much? Are you... because if you don't...]] [[Was that what you said on the committee?]] We didn't talk about this at the committee meeting, so I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u159	Thank you very much. Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u160	Senator rapporteur, my question is, has anyone calculated, on an estimate of how much we're going to lose? In addition to economic losses, image throughout the trading company system? My second question is: has anyone calculated the costs associated with the preparation of websites? And who's really gonna do it? And the third question is, aren't you afraid, especially as a lawyer? You're not a lawyer, are you? That the investments, or actually investors, and capital, will go away? Because to be honest, entrepreneurs don't really like the way an overseer stands and looks at their hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u161	Mr. Senator, let me start by saying that lawyers, as well as lawyers, or even much earlier, had been paranoid about this a few centuries before. So you don't have to be a legal counsel to answer that question you put. Just be a lawyer. And even being a senator is enough. As far as these calculations are concerned, there are no data on the costs involved. There are, however, some simulations that this could lead to additional jobs for, if I remember correctly, about 50,000 people. Now, about the concerns that the senator is expressing... Well, I don't know if they're overreacting, even flaming. Like I say, in the world, among others. in such France, there are similar solutions and somehow no one raised the limit and it did not lead to a collapse of the economy or to any other adverse phenomena. Well, the fact that something is a new phenomenon usually raises some kind of anxiety and anxiety, because that's what you have to learn. There's no telling how it's gonna work. But I wouldn't be so pessimistic around here. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Thank you, Senator. Now you're asking the senator...]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. I didn't get an answer to one question. Has anyone calculated the costs associated with the preparation of websites? And who's gonna make them?]] [[There you go, Mr. Senator.]] I do not know that anybody is doing calculations, and I do not think that this is the most important issue or position in this matter. Let's not fetish IT issues. I see that there is unfortunately such a phenomenon that you even fetishise computer science and all legal solutions begin to serve IT purposes rather than the other way around. Computer science is supposed to serve legal solutions, not vice versa.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u162	Thank you. Senator Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u163	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you said 50,000 people. Who calculated that all of a sudden there's gonna be so many jobs? That's my first question. Two: Will the tax system be different? I mean. Will these companies account for themselves in any other way, or will there be additional redundancies? Because you didn't talk about it. And my third question. If this is to be a simple public limited liability company, then the other public limited liability company, which is now called the public limited liability company, will be called an incomplicated public limited liability company? It's kind of a weird concept to me. That's three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u164	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u165	The concept may indeed seem strange at first glance, but, as I say, it has been functioning in Europe, for example, as I mentioned, in France since 1999. So this year we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of such companies. As far as tax matters are concerned, there is no special regulation here, as far as I know, which would in any way favour or discriminate against these companies. The tax system will be the same as for other economic operators. And there was something else you asked the senator, and yet, apparently, the third question was. I'm sorry, I missed her. [[Will the name be changed to a complicated public limited company?]] No, I take that as a witty question, a little for the humor that's also needed in the sitting room. It will simply be a public limited company and a simple public limited company.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u166	Thank you. Senator Grodzki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! Mr. Senator, the PSA shortcut, since we're still joking, is associated with prostate examination, i.e. prostate-specific antigen. But let's make it a simple joint stock company. There's only one thing I can't understand. So far, young people have registered business, better or worse in business. If they had bigger plans, they'd build a bigger business structure. What is this simple joint stock company supposed to give them? Is it easier for them to raise capital? Will they release shares that will buy the Polish development, national, or whatever it is called? What is the trick of creating such an indirect formation between the existing types of economic operators?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u168	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u169	Professor, after considering that there are similar companies in other countries and that this is conducive to the creation of new companies, so-called. start-ups, the legislator came to the conclusion that such a solution could also work in Poland. Simplifying the activities of such entities compared to a public limited liability company is intentional and will encourage them to engage even people who do not necessarily have any prior experience in doing business, and even more so. A knowledge of quite complex law of public limited liability companies. And that's where it came from. Of course, it is possible to discuss, for example. it would not be more appropriate to change the existing rules on public limited liability companies or limited liability companies, because the routes to the same end may be different. But the legislator has the right to choose such a route by creating a new economic entity, which has so far been unknown in the Commercial Companies Code.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u170	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go, there you go. [[I'm sorry, I just want to speak up. I asked three questions.]] Oh, I see. [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] I see. Mr. Secretary's mistake... [[Yeah, absolutely, my big mistake.]] ...to whom he confesses. [[Yes. I'm pouring ash on my head.]] So now you're Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u171	Thank you. I'd like to ask you about the art. 300125. [[Which one, I'm sorry?]] Art. 300125 §2: The member of the body shall be without prejudice to the duty of due diligence if, acting loyally to the company, he acts within the limits of reasonable economic risk, including on the basis of information, analyses and opinions, which should be taken into account in the circumstances in question when making a careful assessment. I may be wrong, but I don't remember that there's a record of other companies, there's a general rule of responsibility. Does the senator know if this rule will bear this general responsibility? This is lex specialis. Why is he here? And what's it for? The point is, he's setting the risk limits completely different. This is the first case. And a second, more general. Isn't Mr. Senator worried that... the joint stock company has a very strong position and credibility among consumers, among co-operatives, because there is a huge minimum capital there, there are quite strong sharpenings regarding the operation of these companies. Isn't the senator afraid it might be confusing? I'm asking because I'm not seeing any security here as strong as I am in the case of a joint stock company. That's two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u172	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u173	Mr. Senator, of course this is a new regulation, this regulation in the article. 300125 §2. It is a regulation which, as one might say, places a member of the body of such a company And, as I say, it can be different, because the company is left with whether it will be classic, i.e. the board of directors and the board of directors, or it will be this simplified form, such a monolithic, or board of directors, which would sort of combine the existing functions of the board of directors and the board of directors. A member of these management bodies in a position that gives him a slightly greater guarantee of security in terms of his responsibility. Then his responsibility arises only if he is proved not to have done or have failed to do his duty, including due diligence due to the professional nature of his business or failure to maintain his loyalty to the company, unless he is not guilty. And then, in §2 is what you mention, this specification that there is no breach of the duty of due diligence if there are cumulatively certain conditions, namely, when he acted loyally towards the company, he acted within the limits of reasonable risk, including on the basis of information, analyses and opinions, which should be taken into account in the circumstances in which he made a careful assessment. So it could be said that here the limits of his responsibility are quite narrow, which is a guarantee function for him. Well, as I am saying, the essence of this solution is to simplify the company's activities, and thus also some additional guarantees are introduced here for those who will perform the management functions of this company, so that they do not assume excessive responsibility, because if it were a very high risk, it might deter them from taking up this type of activity.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u174	Thank you. Senator Comfort once again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u175	Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry that I'm trying to do this. If the senator had narrowed his statement to the report, I wouldn't have bothered you so much here, but the senator has said several times that this is a very good initiative, wonderful, etc. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u176	No, I didn't say it was great, I said it was favorable... [[It's very supportive.]] ...that these startups could be made more often. That's why I see some advantages here, but I'm not saying it's perfect. [[Excuse me. Excuse me.]] As you know, I rarely admire and say that some piece of legislation is perfect, which may result from my criticism of the profession I have. Saying something is perfect... It's rather rare in my mouth that a word like that comes up, and it's rare that something like that should be evaluated.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u177	Yes. In any case, I have also read this and I continue to say that such a differentiation of management responsibility towards different companies does not serve anything. Because either we want to simplify the lives of CEOs of companies in general, members of their statutory bodies, but we should do it for everyone, because on the one hand, for many years, we have a tendency to tighten up the trend towards people who make economic decisions, and they end up in crime for minor mistakes, and on the other hand, we have something completely different. I'm not saying it's wrong, it's just, Mr. Senator, it completely changes the rules of the game that stop being equal to the players who are on the market. If we look at the article. 300123: if the members of the board intentionally or negligently reported false data in the statement, they shall be jointly and severally with the company for only 3 years... If you could explain to me how this provides certainty in economic trade? And why it's different here than it is... I don't remember if it's different or not anymore, but I think it's different.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u178	No, no. Mr. Senator, I'll remind you and I'm sorry you're wrong. I'll give you an article on public limited liability companies, where regulation is the same. Please weigh on the article. 512: The members of the Management Board, the Supervisory Board or the Audit Committee and the winding-up officers of the merging companies shall be jointly and severally liable to the shareholders of those companies for damage caused by the act or omission which is contrary to the law or provisions of the contract or the statutes of the company, unless they are not liable. Rule in Article 300125 is very similar, especially the principle of liability. If they're not guilty, they're not responsible. There is only a slightly different wording, although it does not change the substance of the matter, because in the article. 512, which refers to a public limited-liability company, is a reference to damages for conduct contrary to the law or the provisions of the contract or the statutes of the company, and there is no such indication in Article. 300125, which concerns this simple public limited liability company, is only a reference to failure or improper performance of its duties. So you could say it's the other way around than you think it is. Namely, in this case it is even a slightly broader responsibility, because there is no reference to a violation of the statutes or to a breach of the universal law, or to a breach of the contract, but there is only a more general wording: that it is responsible for the failure or improper performance of its obligations, including failure to perform due diligence. And from here it is necessary, in my opinion, this §2. Only the same §2 narrows down liability which would be wider than the general rules of the Article. 512, where there must be an infringement of the law of the general public or of the statutes or of the contract that exists in that public limited company. Because there's a paragraph 2 in this article. 300125 kind of exculpation. Namely, it is assumed that a member of the body is not in breach of the duty of due diligence, for which §1 provides responsibility. In what cases, exactly? If he is acting loyally, he shall act within the limits of reasonable economic risk, including on the basis of information, analysis and opinion, which should be taken into account when making a careful assessment. So, in my opinion, there's not a discrepancy here that you're referring to. It could even be said that, at first glance, it might seem that this liability in a simple public limited liability company, if only §1 were taken into account, is even greater than that provided for in the case of a public limited liability company in Article. 520. Only then is there a narrowing, and rightly, in §2 by referring to the fact that if he acted loyally and was based on analyses, information and opinions, then he cannot be held liable.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u179	Thank you, Senator. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u180	I'm sorry, but I don't remember the Commercial Companies Code that well, but I'd like a simple answer. Is the regulation of a normal public limited liability company the same as in Article. 300123? Is it said that after 3 years from the date of registration of the company or registration of the issue of new shares, liability cannot be claimed against the company's creditors jointly and severally with the company even in the event of deliberately withholding data, i.e. fraud? Is he so... If the senator says it's more relative even in the case of that joint stock company, is there anything like that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u181	Now, Mr. Senator, if I can find this, I'll be honest with you. I don't remember, but I suppose it's so... In any event, the general limitation rules for the recovery of claims are similar. You previously even asked why these claims include a three-year limitation here, so I would like to remind you that in a simple public limited company, a pre-emptive claim, in general, weigh the article. 300130, with the expiry of 3 years from the date on which the company found out about the damage and about the person liable to repair, i.e. a tempore sciencetiae, i.e. since the news was taken, but in any event it will expire 10 years from the date on which the event which caused the damage took place, i.e. in the case of a tempore facti, the 10-year term is calculated. And it's a regulation, and I'm talking from memory, so I can't do it 100%. to say that it is similar to the regulation in the Commercial Companies Code concerning public limited liability companies. So here in particular I wouldn't see any discrepancies, but As I say, I'm based on memory. I'd have to have some time to search and identify a specific recipe.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u182	Thank you. No further questions. Senator rapporteur, thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: I would say this: if I could, because there is one question that has already been answered, but I could simply say...]] Of course. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak:...To respect time...]] Thank you very much, but I'm gonna need you to go to the podium. You can answer the question, you can extend it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u183	No. Just one line. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a question about professors or academics involved in the project. And that's one question that I would allow myself to answer quickly, briefly. When it comes to this work, it's been going on. I'll tell you what. Under the patronage of Professor Sołtysiński. There was a committee of professors who had been assisting the Ministry from the very beginning. This is, in fact, a process that lasted until 2016. The chairman of this committee was Professor Opalski from the University of Warsaw, and yesterday two members of this committee were present at the committee meeting, Professor Sjoka from Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań and Professor Oplustil from the Jagiellonian University. I wanted those names to come out here because they're people without whom this project wouldn't have been created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u184	Thank you, Minister. Stay on the stand, because right now, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to you. Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u185	Thank you very much. Minister, I have the same simple question. It's very possible that I'm wrong here... It's about this art. 300123 and Article 300123 300125 §2. Is it the same regulation of this responsibility, or is it different, or if it is different, then why is it different?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u186	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u187	I assume this is about two things. It is about this §2 in Article. 300124. This is a novelty, this is something that is referred to in the doctrine as the principle of business assessment of the situation, the principle recipulated from American doctrine to many European systems, including among others. German legal order. The introduction of this into Polish trade law, company law, for several years has been advocated in Polish doctrine. I would also like to stress that this paragraph should be read together with §1. §1 of that Article provides, describes the same principle, while §2 clarifies the standard, which, as I say, we require from a member of the board, and takes into account what can be called business risk or the reality of the risk of business assessment. I would also like to point out that this article should be considered together with the principle introduced here in the case of a simple public limited liability company, which, if you can say so, increases the liability of a member of the body who is also responsible for the capital payments he has made in breach of what can be called a liquidity test. This is one of those modern mechanisms for protecting creditors, which is conducted in this project and which commands... Maybe I'll say it like that. This standard extends civil subsidiary liability to such a member of the body who made such payments from the company's funds, in breach of this liquidity test, i.e. By spending money in a way that hurts the creditor. I'm gonna get that recipe... Let me look at the documents I have... This provision on liability is, as far as the article is concerned. 30022 is a provision that does not exist in the case of the company z o.o. or a public limited liability company It also makes this responsibility of a member of the management board or a member of the board of directors of a company greater in the case of a simple public limited liability company. This further justifies such clarification of the standard and the care required of the member of the Management Board in Article. 300124 §2.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u188	Thank you. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u189	Thank you. Minister, can this old company be converted into this new simple, uncomplicated, and can this simple company be introduced into the stock market later?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u190	The answer to the first question: on the basis of the transformation of companies contained in the Commercial Companies Code, of course yes. The answer to question two: of course not. And that's one of the reasons why a joint stock company, the classic one that we already have in the code, couldn't, I don't know, be the subject of some far-reaching changes, e.g. Simplifying... Well, we have EU law, we have EU directives that are related to public companies, i.e. those that are on the stock exchange, and there in European law are very strongly defined ..................................................................................................................................................................... E.g. related requirements with such, let's call it transparency of the company's operation for shareholders. It is known that publicly traded companies have much more shareholders and that public trade also has certain safety standards. So the answer to the second question is no, you can't put a simple joint stock company on the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u191	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First question, simple. Why does the Act enter into force on 1 March 2020? Well, that's a distant date, but in a categoric way... It was found that this rarely happens. And why not since the beginning of the year, what would be more natural? I don't know... Maybe you'll answer more or less. Second question. I have already expressed this doubt during the committee's work. Well, the terms "shareholder," "stock company," "action" have been present almost forever, let's call it, in the Polish legal system. The same concepts will also apply to a simple public limited liability company. Question: Will it be clearly defined when they can be generally applied to both types of companies, when to public limited liability companies in the old sense, and when to public limited liability companies in the simple sense? Minister, let me give you an example. We'll see how you respond. Simple, we know of the 1996 municipal economy law. Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1: The local government units may form limited-liability companies or public limited-liability companies and may also join such companies. The question is: can simple stock companies also join or not? Does the definition of a public limited liability company apply to all public limited liability companies, i.e. simple or merely public limited liability companies in the old sense of the term? Well, in this case, when there's a phrase like that, it's just simple stock companies can't. Going even further... Art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 reads, "Besides the sphere of public utility, the municipality may form commercial law companies." So is it simple equity companies, too? and approach them under certain conditions and considerations. Why am I talking about this? Because if you were to call this simple joint stock company a different term, e.g. A receipt company, and that thing wouldn't be an action or a share, just a receipt, that would be all clear. Well, in this situation, it's not so obvious to me. We are entering a large existing legal area and terminology issues make sense here. So these are the two questions. Short to start, and long to talk about local government and forms of work.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u193	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u194	As for the first question, let me say this: I had the pleasure of presenting a project here a few months ago, which included among others. changes in the civil code, there was also a very long vacathio legis. Here, however, we are dealing with a very large change in the Commercial Companies Code and a long vacathio legis seems justified to me. Besides, we count very much... the government has adopted a bill on new public contracts, and there's an even longer vacatio legis. I think that's justified. It's just that the market can prepare for this so that different lawyers can read about it. So that really is a big change and vacathio legis seems justified to me. [[Excuse me, Minister... can I...]] [[Please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u195	I don't blame you because it's long. The point is that a long vacathio legis means certain sections, e.g. After three months, after six months, and here's a rigid date, and she's gonna change depending on whether there's gonna be amendments or not, when the president signs... I don't know if that's clear. Well, vacathio legis is long, but liquid. That's what I'd say.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u196	Let me put it this way: the legislative technique allows us to define by date. In this case, we have come to this solution. I think it's pretty clear. As far as the second question or question is concerned, I will say this: wherever a simple public limited company is explicitly mentioned in the Act, it will be a simple public limited company. Where a public limited liability company is mentioned without an adjective, it is a public limited liability company. In other words, the second example that the senator referred to as j.s.t. they can start partnerships with o.o. And stock companies, of course, are just companies from the o.o. And stock companies. And when there's a clear speech... This is also the case in the introductory provisions, and there are a lot of implementing provisions here. So when it is spoken, e.g. in the Law on the Management of State Property I'm talking about a shareholder that's supposed to be understood as... Here we add, by name and by name, a simple joint stock company. This provision also includes a simple public limited liability company. Mr Senator also gave an example in which commercial law companies in general are referred to, in fact, this was the wording. Well, of course, this term includes all commercial law companies listed in k.s.h. So also after the entry into force of the Act there will be a simple public limited liability company.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u197	Thank you. Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator Comfort. I'm gonna ask you a question. You're welcome. Yes? [[No, thank you.]] No? [[I'm dropping the question.]] Good. Thank you. Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you, sir. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u198	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I thought that over time, over the course of our term of office, we would strive to simplify the tax system and reduce the number of entities that can be registered. Because the types of companies themselves, Minister, today we have a few from a civil company through a public, partnership, commandite, limited-stock company... If this solution, as mentioned here, is intended to contribute to the work of 50,000 workers, I do not really understand how this is to be done. 'Cause today, if someone doesn't even have capital and wants to do anything, In new technologies whether or not it can start operating as a natural person. After all, it is not an obligation to set up a company, especially one that cannot be developed later, for example by raising capital through the stock exchange. And that led to my question. You can open your business as a natural person, but you can also set up a civil company So 2, 3 or 4 civilians without capital meet, put in their jobs, settle on general terms, and here we have a company, we have a normal business activity. I, Minister, have been in business for 30 years without 1 year, which is almost 30 years. I started out in the previous system, as a student of. I was washing windows, it was working in cooperatives at... being a student in cooperatives... Well, I don't remember what they were called back then. [[Workers' cooperatives...]] I think it's college. And we got a pretty good reward for that for students. But... today, Mr. Senator gave an example: this company exists in France. But we don't know. I mean, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... "What other legal options for doing business are there in France. Perhaps only such a form of company exists there and there are no 2 types of companies. For me, it's incomprehensible that instead of simplifying, today is really a dilemma. If someone comes to Poland and wants to... And this is going to be a simple joint stock company and a joint stock company. Well, it's mega-complicated. As I said at the beginning, I would strive to give Polish entrepreneurs, especially, as was said here, to the young ones, the opportunity to act by reducing this thicket of legislation, which is confusing, for example, in tax matters. This reminds me of this endless car game, where you can count VAT once, once you can't, you can count half the VAT, the way the car has a grate, then you could count it off, then somebody figured out that there were some patterns and kilograms, there was a pattern of Lisak... Today, 150 thousand were invented again, then over 75%. ...Well, it's hard to figure out. I, Minister, would really ask you to sit down and analyze... Because there are plenty of these forms of doing business. Similar rules apply when it comes to the tax system, although, of course, companies differ, because there is a dividend payment, it is as if double taxation... But I'd ask you to simplify it in some way. After all, we are still learning about doing business and these changes to the rules. Of which now relating to this formation of this simple company... According to me, neither the minister nor the senator's colleague cited here any example of what it makes sense. After all, today you can start a business activity as a natural person on one simple flower in one minute and you can normally account for yourself, you can be a vatuary, you can do business, you can pay tax, you can develop. Yeah, no problem. And if you want to raise capital... Then why start a simple joint stock company by bringing in your job? Well, you can bring your work in as a natural person. Nothing else. I really ask you not to make life difficult for entrepreneurs, not to confuse people who are at the beginning of their career when it comes to starting a business. Because really simple forms can get you far. And this is just another doing something... or showing success. We have another bill that doesn't really bring anything good, and I say it as a boy who's been working hard for 30 years for his success, never had the ability to count down, never got a grant. I pay taxes and operate as a company with good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u199	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u200	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm very happy... Although there is no Senator rapporteur, I am pleased that he has said with concern that 633 articles 112 are being introduced as new. This is a very serious undertaking that, whatever it takes to tell entrepreneurs, will bring chaos and mess. Although the Minister used a great name and a great authority as regards commercial law companies I mean by the name of Professor Sołtysiński But, objectively speaking, there are universities that unfortunately have a different opinion and are even terrified. And to be honest, Minister... Senator Czerwiński asked why it was so late and I would like to say: thank you for starting in 2020, because I am more than convinced, standing here before you, that we will meet again and again on this issue. This is a serious proposal that we will have to sit on again and discuss with many pragmatics and practices. I am not a lawyer, but with most of the questions and suggestions of your patron, Senator Alexander Pociej, I agree, because these questions have been sewn with deep concern that we should not make a mess of ourselves. Honestly, 29 years I worked as an entrepreneur, founded commercial law companies, ended up as a civilian, and I have to say that I am very concerned about your proposal, because the project is going to introduce a new type of capital company into the system of a simple public limited company. Projectors assume that the procedated type of company will apply to start-up projects based on modern technologies and that it will allow to combine innovative solutions at the early stages of development, i.e. innovation and entrepreneurship. Frankly, the intentions are, of course, very good, but the question is whether it will actually be easier, cheaper and less rigorous. This is a very important question. Calling the company simple, to be honest, does not mean that the construction will be simple. I would like to say that this is also emphasized by representatives of many cathedrals of commercial law of Polish universities. They're pointing out that this bill is a legal monster with a lot of mistakes. I have therefore expressed my satisfaction that we are trying to implement this in 2020. We'll meet here again and again, like I said at the beginning. Of course, we need to focus on both some facilitations and the protection of trading participants. But in this project there is much talk about the interests of the partners, and there is no good protection of the interests of creditors, although this is very important. Therefore, it is a threat that financial institutions, when they see that they are dealing with a simple public limited liability company, may not take it seriously or require additional collateral, and injured counterparties will resent you that their interests have not been sufficiently secured. Today, most of the starters have two types of companies to choose from, i.e. a limited liability company or a public limited company, but Okay, here's the As much as 71% selects the company from o.o. And that's the answer. I think it is important to consider whether this form of company might not be modified, not to introduce changes that make it easier to function and allow for the removal of barriers that entrepreneurs have always complained about. Anyway, to this day, they're saying it. I've performed on the board many times myself... I do not introduce a new type of company which is supposed to be simple and already you can see that it will be complicated. We are aware that progress leads to the start of new forms of business activity, which is true. However, what you are proposing in this law today does not deserve approval. As a long-standing entrepreneur, I will urge my colleagues not to vote in favour of this amendment. And I am addressing you, Minister, with these words: it will be necessary to go back to this complicated proposal again. As Senator Czarnobaj rightly said just now, this is the excess of form over content. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u201	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna be a little less critical about the department, and I'm sure I'm gonna hand you over to your crew, your coworkers... Well, the Ministry of Justice coming here at night should teach you how to work on a project. How? Not by surprise, not by night and not with a vacathio legis having 15 minutes. And for the fact that you joined this working group from here were my questions, among other things. Professor Sołtysiński, a really big plus, because... [[I'm sure.]] The ideas of the Ministry of Justice are... those who write these projects sign the names of the Members because they're ashamed of what they came up with at the Ministry. I'm sure it's better here. My questioning about art. 300125 §1 and 2, was not caused by the fact that I would somehow be very against it. The reason for these questions was the opposite. I'm very sorry that in this direction that the prosecution has been taking for a few years, where every mistake... We've had this lately in the case of doctors. The new penal code contained such ideas that doctors wondered And it's not a joke. Do you...? They thought that euthanasia was less punishment than a double mistake. So if I'm seeing any idea that's depenalizing a legitimate risk, I just want you to expand it. This is where I get to what I don't like, and this is about two things. Firstly, this shape is different and, in my opinion, it will act differently. It may in some way be misleading in the context of the entire commercial code. I see danger here. Secondly, I believe that the project itself, even if it can actually help young people who do not want to take on civil responsibility, but want to do something, and are young enough and so uninhabited that they will be able to enter into it on a working basis... There's an evaluation of the work here. I wouldn't be particularly concerned about that, but I don't think the very form you're proposing could somehow lead to more jobs. It is a form that can be useful, more or less, but not by inventing such a new form, there are jobs. And where I read that that's what's gonna cause some incredible acceleration... Of course, such justification is, in my opinion, pointless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u203	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the law on the system of development institutions. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1221 and the report of the committee In print No 1221 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have examined the law on the system of development institutions at their meeting on 9 July. The committees are asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment. During the committee meeting, we had an in-depth discussion. The Legislative Office presented its opinion, so that we had the opportunity to read the presentation of the Polish Development Fund, detailing the functioning of this system of development institutions and development plans. The presentation shall be annexed to the documents of the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u205	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj reporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u206	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, in your brief and substantive report, you have not highlighted one of the most important things that have happened for the first time since I was a senator in my previous and previous term. It is at your request that we conclude the debate on this law. I take it you forgot or didn't think it was appropriate to talk about it. I'm skipping it. But I would like to ask you here, during the debate, what led you to limit the discussion for the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u207	Thank you, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u208	Thank you very much. Let me get this straight. I did not request an end to the debate, I applied for a law without amendments, and indeed the debate was concluded by the chairman of the joint committee meeting, Senator Gazwada. So I straighten it out, it wasn't my conclusion. I've filed a motion to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u209	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak, Deputy Minister Marek Nieżak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: Thank you.]] Thank you. Thank you. The senators may now ask the Minister questions. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Minister, I'd like to ask you to come to the podium. There you go. Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u210	Mr. Marshal, Minister, as we were a little limited in discussion yesterday, I would like to add to the questions I asked yesterday. Minister, to this idea that these six entities... In some situations there are repeated actions, they need to be coordinated, harmonised, as the Minister said... In addition to the project of the functioning of these 6 entities within the group in this form that you have proposed, have you considered, or a group of people working on this in the Ministry, a different form of action, and if so, what? And second question. Minister, are you familiar with the development of the Market Economy Research Institute on... I'm tracking yesterday what materials are already on the market in this area... the Market Economy Research Institute... These are recommendations to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for the national bank to do so. and, above all, the legislator In order to become a credit bank like in Germany, which you spoke about during the work of the committee. Are you familiar with this study and was it even taken into account in the work on harmonising these 6 institutions in the market? And the third question. Yesterday I asked, Minister, about the possible costs that will be incurred in connection with the operation of the group. The Minister replied that this would be cost-free. Could you give us another approximation of the cost-free functioning of the Polish Development Fund Group?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u211	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I'm going to start with the second question, because I'm going to have a short answer here, and I'm afraid it's unsatisfying for you, because I don't know what it says, so I don't know exactly what it says. As far as the first question is concerned, has another formula been considered, the answer is yes. It can even be said that a little more than considered, because, as I said at the committee meeting, the idea of setting up a PFR Group and such a meeting together and harmonising the activities of individual development institutions is somehow rooted in the SOR, in the Strategy for Responsible Development. And yet, the S.O.R. was adopted a few years ago. This group is currently acting as if on the basis of a different formula and this other formula is an agreement between those institutions which is concluded. They are cooperating on this agreement now. So there was also this idea: maybe that's enough. But also in the course of this practical operation over the last few years, and in the course of analyses before the project was developed, but we all came to the conclusion This is mainly the experience of these individual institutions, because the project was created in close cooperation with them. In addition to this level of lowest, operational, which determines the agreement, and the level which results from the ownership supervision, which at that moment is concentrated in one place, looking institutionally, from the state side, at the Prime Minister's office, where there is ownership supervision of these individual development institutions... that apart from these two levels is still needed such, I would say, the middle level, the third level, that is, such a statutory framework. This is partly due to the lack of holding law in Poland, we do not have such regulation in Polish law, and it is a bit due to what President Borys said in the committee, that many of these institutions have their specific characteristics, and it also has its legal form, completely different. There's a state bank, there's a PARP agency, there's commercial law companies... Well, we need additional rules, special regulations, just so that a diverse group of institutions or a system of institutions... can help them work better together. As far as costs are concerned, I've already explained myself on the committee... It's just a thought shortcut that came into my head a little bit under the influence of one of the questions I got in the Seym. Because there was a question: whether you are creating new jobs in institutions or in the Ministry or in the Prime Minister's firm. And the answer is no. That's what I'm talking about. It is so that these institutions are, they function, they are not set up by this law, as I said. Some of them, like BGK, have a beautiful prewar history in general, some of them are much newer, but they are already, already functioning. And this law is not a novelty, in the sense that it does not now appoint e.g., I do not know, one such, in common speaking, cap companies over them, such a new company which would coordinate this group, nor create a new office, e.g., I do not know, office for development institutions. In that sense... That's what I meant. I realize this is a thought shortcut. Because, of course, the functioning of these institutions involves operating costs. It's just that these costs, actually, are now. And we are counting on harmonisation, coordination, and this strategy to generate some savings. The President has also given concrete examples at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u213	Thank you. No further questions. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to say a few words about this bill. Minister, you said that, as I understand it, if there was a holding law, it wouldn't be a problem that there's no holding law, so, you could say, these six entities... It was necessary to create a legal formula in which coordination... a certain scope of cooperation will be implemented... [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I ask, Mr. Marshall, that you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, I would ask you not to disturb me. Did you get it already? Thank you. Go ahead, sir.]] And that's why I think it would be worth thinking, as Senator Bierecki said... we've been waiting years for the holding bill. I don't know which ministry she should be in, but it's worth thinking about. I'll go back to the bill. Minister, I agree with such an approach that the concentration of capital ....the capital....the in the sense of money, value or capital in the sense of human capital, it is a very important element, also in this area, which is the subject of this law. But I would like to say that this formula of focusing these 6 entities into a group of Polish development funds... Like the minister said at the committee meeting, it's a brand name... Doubts about the fund's advice that it's a body... So it was here, at the committee meeting, a lot of different kinds of legislative observations. I think there has been a lack of courage to set up or establish a legal formula for institutions that in many cases also deal with certain common elements. And, as the Minister said, they need to be harmonised and coordinated so that these tasks are not repeated. Nevertheless, I encourage the Minister to read the report... I accidentally stopped by last night after the committee meeting. 'Cause if I did, I'd be doing it. said at the meeting of the committee on the report of the Market Economy Research Institute. And he goes in that direction of thinking that there should be an institution on the market that, in short, would deal with those areas that are mentioned here, and also a few other, wider ones. The Minister praised this German bank as a very important element and instrument of a certain economic policy of the government. That is why what we are talking about here is, Minister, such a transitional road which I do not completely accept. Although I am aware that I am saying that you are simply out of courage and are creating a creation to coordinate, as the Minister said, these six institutions operating in the development system and subject to different ministers. Therefore, in order to coordinate the fact that they belong to various ministries, we create another structure - forum or council of the Polish Development Fund Group. We are giving it a legal framework and, as the Minister has said, it will be cost-effective. There aren't any cheap jobs, Minister. I understand it's a slip of the tongue. But if it is so that in other areas we will save on the operation of these 6 entities and the money saved will be mobilised to support this project, it is done at the expense of the savings on the operation of these 6 entities. It is still beneficial that this is not done on the basis of an increase in the budget subsidy. That's why I personally... I do not know how my colleagues will deal with this, personally because of my conviction that new actors should not be created only to coordinate tasks that can be carried out in a completely different legal way, more transparent, more readable... After all, there may be a legal product that will be subject to the Prime Minister. Then there is no division between various ministries or ministers. It is easier and faster to achieve goals, not necessarily by developing a system of governance, administration in a Polish country, and especially built by government administration or otherwise by local government. Let us simplify the system, make it more efficient, economic - this is the main message of this development of the Market Economy Research Institute. You are creating another creation, which, as the Minister has often pointed out at the committee meeting, harmonize similar tasks of institutions belonging to different ministries and coordinated by different ministers. And for this reason, unfortunately, I will not support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u215	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to reduce payment congestion. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1229, and the report of the Commission is published in print No 1229 A. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, after considering this law, we will proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda, so there will be a significant leap. There you go, Mr. Senator. Of course, I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Tadeusz Kopcia, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u216	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 4 July 2019 amending certain laws to limit payment congestion. High Izbo, yesterday there was a meeting of two committees on which the Minister presented the principles of this law. In short, in a few sentences, I will present them. High Izbo, according to the European Payment Report, about 78% entrepreneurs receive payment for the work done 30 days after the deadline and a further 13% it remains unpaid for more than 60 days and the analysis of the structure of outstanding claims has shown that the average maturity of late repayment is the longest in the group of micro-entrepreneurs and is 3 months and 12 days. In a group of large companies it is 2 months and 21 days. Thus, the smaller the enterprise, the greater the share of the costs resulting from late payments in total costs. The law adopted by the Sejm calls for a reduction to 30 days of payment in transactions in which a public entity is a debtor, without the possibility of extending it. The only exception to this rule is medical establishments for which a 60-day settlement deadline is still proposed. Since public entities are usually a good and reliable payer, the amendment of the rules aimed at banning the expiry of the 30-day payment deadline meets the positive opinion of traders. The practice of setting excessively extended payment deadlines in contracts also contributes to the phenomenon of payment congestion to a large extent. The Act introduces a statutory obligation to apply a maximum 60-day payment deadline in transactions where the creditor is a small or medium-sized company and the debtor is a large trader. The largest companies will also be subject to a preventive additional reporting obligation consisting of the need to publish information on payment practices and payment deadlines. Other important provisions of the law aimed at eliminating payment congestion include provisions on the application of civil law measures, i.e. strengthening the creditor's powers in commercial transactions, higher compensation for small and medium-sized enterprises, shorter payment deadlines and financial penalties for traders who have repeatedly abused their economic advantage, and extending the relief for bad debts to income tax and the obligation for debtors to increase the tax base by more than 120 days. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The joint committees adopted 14 amendments unanimously, except that these amendments are in principle harmonisation amendments, clarifying certain legal solutions and editorial ones. During the debate, such important questions... Senator Leszek Czarnobaj asked about the administrative penalties provided for in the Act imposed by the UOKiK, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, whether there is a similar model in the European Union. The Minister answered these questions. I think it is worth mentioning that, with regard to administrative penalties imposed by the UOKiK, these new competences mean an additional 110 posts, as I recall, in the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. The cost of this solution is PLN 18 million in the first year and PLN 16 million in the following years. This model, especially those administrative penalties Mr. Minister confirmed this. In fact, it is a model model based on the French model, in which there are basically similar legal solutions and the Hungarian model. The High Izbo, during yesterday's debate, were representatives of employers: the Polish Chamber of Commerce, the Leviathan, the Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation. And I'd like to say that I'd love to... I would also like to express my thanks to Minister Emilewicz. For the first time... I also spoke to the employers' representatives. The process of preparing this law, first of all so-called. The Green Paper that the Ministry has been preparing for over a month... The next month was a public consultation with employers. Employers' representatives identified this as a model legislative process. The Act was adopted by 8 votes to none, with one abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u217	Thank you, Senator. Now the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator of the rapporteur. I don't hear that kind of question. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: No.]] Thank you. Are there any questions for the Minister? I can't hear you. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What the Senator rapporteur said... I would like to say, Mr. Marshall, ladies and gentlemen, that I had a great deal of joy at the committee meeting. For the first time in history, people or organizations involved in the project, the bill, praised those who prepared the bill. I join these thanks, Minister. That's the pattern. You may disagree with some elements and have different doubts, but if the legislative process, and particularly the consultation process, is conducted in the form that employers spoke about yesterday, it is worth it, Minister, this idea, this way of proceeding... When you're in a government meeting, maybe it's worth saying that there's been a bill for four years that the opposition praised... And she praised not just the bill, because I'm going to say a few critical things about her, because what opposition would it be if... you can see that you can do a process in which there is time, people discuss, express... What else is important, Mr. Marshal? The Minister has agreed to many of the amendments proposed during the committee's work. Well, that's unusual! [[What do you mean?]] 80% the laws in this term of office pass through the amendments. So, Minister, thank you very much and I hope that this good spirit that was working on this bill... that it will be a model, such good practice when it comes to the laws brought to the High House. Not fast, 12:00 a.m., 'cause at 12:00 a.m., Mr. President has to sign at noon. Well, that's... Gentlemen of the Law and Justice, listen to what the senator said... [[If they're bragging, it could be bad, you have to think about it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] How they praise it... In any case, I would like to say that employers did not praise the bill itself, all the records, because they could always do better, but they praised what was involved in the procedure of carrying out the bill, the fact that there was time for consultations, conversations, lawyers could comment, the bill would come back, there was a project and it would come back again. And at the last minute, the Minister agreed to a few amendments made during the committee meeting, no one closed the discussion, there was no Senator's head of club who would say: please approve the closing of the discussion... [[When was that?]] Everything ran in a way... Why? Can't you praise me? [[You can praise, yes...]] Well, then go ahead and complain that it was bad. It turns out we've actually become weird because the opposition praises the procedure, and the senator of the ruling party is outraged, as I praise. [[No, I...]] Mr. Senator, please come out here... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...and say... But, Minister, there is one thing, or perhaps two things I always take with great pain. I would like to say right away that I will not vote against this bill, but I would like to say yes. Well, increasing the number of people by 110, if I recall, and perhaps 18 million, as the senator said... This is always the thing that I regret, and it is always a question of whether it should have been done in such a way as it was possible, as in the case of the previous law, to be implemented. it is a task within existing structures. That would be a full-blown happiness. If you can't, I'm sorry about it, but it's okay. Now what I asked at the committee meeting, Minister, what you mentioned, Senator rapporteur. I think that since it is missing and missing in this bill, perhaps it is worth considering, Minister, at some time in the future. Please note that if there are payment congestions, neither the paying person nor the one to be affected by this cash is likely to be in good condition in most cases, since the penalty is already being applied and various types of proceedings are being conducted. I have also read about models that are being worked on, that it is worth creating a fund that will help, especially small and medium-sized companies, which are in trouble as a result of various types of extension of payment deadlines. Therefore, if the only element is punishment, it also raises my doubts. That's why I think it's worth going on. In a modern solution, we need to think about the support system, precisely through the development fund, Minister, or the institution that will ultimately be created on the basis of the previous law. The idea is to respond not only to punishment but also to a system of certain aid, especially in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises, because large companies are likely to cope with this. When you talk to small entrepreneurs, they say it's the payment embolism that is often such a nail for small businesses. I submit this, Minister, under consideration and in some uncertain future, I hope, or, knowing the Minister, in the near future... Thank you very much. And I'm sorry, Minister, for bragging. [[It could've hurt.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u219	Thank you, Senator. If you have a good bill, you must praise it. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] No political hints. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Cooperatives... [[Another committee meeting...]] Excuse me, excuse me, Mr. Senator. Were the corrections? [[Yes.]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[For protocol.]] Then who... [[Voice from the room: Senator Kleina, Senator Blackbay and Senator Tadeusz Kopeć.]] [[And he was just praising this bill.]] [[If he's bragging, can't he?]] I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing... Please, Senator rapporteur. [[There you go, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Kleina... [[...and Senator Blackbay.]] ...and Senator Blackbay. Together, right? [[Yeah, together.]] And Senator Tadeusz Kopeć. [[Yes, sir.]] In this situation, the discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: No.]] I don't want to. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Housing Cooperatives Act. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is included in print No 1134, and the committee's report In print No 1134 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Infrastructure Committee, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u220	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Legislative Commission and the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act. As Mr Marshal said, this is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 14 March 2018. In this judgment The Court held that Article. The 491 Housing Cooperatives Act, in so far as it concerns situations in which it is incompatible with Article to comply with the condition of self-sufficiency of the premises. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. According to this contested provision, a person who, under the law, may require the establishment of a right of separate ownership of the premises may, in the event of an inaction of the cooperative, bring an action before the court. This provision provides for judicial proceedings to be conducted in a procedural manner. However, this procedure makes it difficult and even prevents a person entitled to enforce the establishment of a separate ownership of the premises where the cooperative does not undertake the material and technical activities necessary to establish that separate ownership of the premises. This also means that there are no legal instruments in court proceedings that provide protection for the entitled person in certain situations. There is therefore a need to regulate this issue. Against this comes the presented bill. The committees were sitting for quite a while. The discussion about this project was not, it did not raise controversy. Senator Zientarski has submitted a proposal to adopt a draft law without amendments and the two joint committees have unanimously adopted the proposal. I therefore request, on behalf of the joint committees, that this draft law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u221	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit questions to the rapporteur of the committee and the authorised representative of the applicant for a maximum of one minute. I would like to remind you that the Legislative Committee has authorized her to represent Senator Alexander Pociej. Are there any such questions? [[No questions.]] No questions. Thank you, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on this matter, on the bill presented? I'm asking you, Deputy Minister Arthur Sobonia. Thank you, Minister, yes? Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We'll proceed with point eight of order... [[Voice from the Chamber: No rapporteur. All right, let's take a five-minute break.]] [[And who's the rapporteur?]] [[Voice from the room: Bierecki.]] [[He won't be there.]] There's no rapporteur, there's no Senator Bierecki, right? Good. I'm ordering a recess until 8:05 p.m. [[Voice from the room: Until 20.05?]] No... [[It's 7:28.]] Oh, sorry, sorry, I was wrong. By 19.35. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 28 to 19 minutes 35]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u222	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1227 and the report of the committee In print No 1227 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 9 July, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance examined the Act amending the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and certain other laws. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted together with the amendments adopted by the Commission. The correction is 14. These amendments are based on the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, as well as on the arrangements carried out by the Legislative Office with the Ministry of Finance. These are mostly legislative, legislative and editorial amendments. There is one substantive amendment that benefits supervised entities. This is an amendment that abolishes criminal interest in the event of a penalty being imposed by an entity controlled during a check... sorry, after receiving the check, as a result of a check. The Minister will correct me because I seem to have erred in this case. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak:...Relocation of the deadline from 30 April to 31 August.]] This is another amendment. I wanted to draw attention to this amendment, where we are talking about giving up interest on penalties. I'll find it. I'm sorry, it was in a different set of amendments. Please withdraw this part of my statement from the report. Yes, I do remember the amendment that was discussed outside the committee meeting. That's why I'm pointing out. Thus, the amendments are editorial, legislative. A significant change is the delay in the deadline for carrying out the obligations imposed by the Act from 30 April to 31 August. Mr. Marshal, this is exhausting my report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u224	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Piotr Nowak. Minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. [[Senator Bierecki.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! After the work of the committee has been completed, we have noticed the need for further amendments, which are also legislative and editorial, and therefore, on the basis of the opportunity created by the debate, I hereby make these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u226	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the matter under consideration... [[Voice from the room:...more.]] Oh, sorry, yeah. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1220 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1220 A and 1220 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u227	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the Act amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and on certain other laws. This amendment is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 June 2016, in which the Court of Justice held that the provisions of the Enforcement Act in the administration in so far as they do not determine the maximum amount of the enforcement fee, in which they do not specify the maximum amount of the handling fee and in which they do not provide for the possibility of reducing the handling charge in the event of the withdrawal of the proceedings due to the voluntary payment of the enforcement fee after enforcement, are incompatible with the resulting Article. 2 the principle of the prohibition of excessive interference in connection with Article 64 (2) of the Constitution. 1 and Article 1 84 constitutions. As I said, this law is implementing the Court's judgment. The issues which the Court has challenged have been dealt with differently. The two-quota handling fee rates have been accepted. This basic is PLN 40, due to the initiation of enforcement proceedings. It can be raised to PLN 100, i.e. it will be increased, in the event of the initiation and execution of certain actions by the enforcement authority. It was also accepted that the handling fee is levied on each implementing title. Of course, the Act also provides that the handling fee will not be charged in certain cases, e.g. where the monetary debt, interest on non-payment of that debt within the time limit and the costs of the notice are paid or remitted in full before the initiation of the administrative execution and where the cash secured by the freezing arrangement is sufficient to cover in full the amount incurred in the enforcement proceedings and the interest on failure to pay it within the time limit and in the event of the reopening of the enforcement procedure. The proposed method of charging the enforcement fee shall set the upper limit of that fee for the entire enforcement procedure carried out under the instrument under which it was charged. In enforcement proceedings, the enforcement authority will charge a 10% enforcement fee the funds enforced, provided that the amount of that fee may not exceed the upper limit of that fee. It is also worth noting that the enforcement authority will only charge the enforcement fee after the execution costs for the handling fee, enforcement fees, enforcement expenses and enforcement costs incurred in the decommitted enforcement proceedings for the reasons set out in Article have been met. 59 §2 of the Law on Enforcement in Administration. It was also accepted that the maximum amount of the enforcement fee should apply separately for each implementing title. The amendment also introduces measures to encourage the voluntary performance of the obligation. In case of voluntary payment to the enforcement authority or creditor, the enforcement fee will be 5% interest on not paying it at the date of issue of the implementing title and the cost of notice, but not more than PLN 20 000. The Act also provides for a change in the system of relief in the payment of costs. This is a comprehensive implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. This law did not raise controversy during the committee work, a proposal was made for this law to be adopted without amendment. 8 Senators were in favour, no one was against, 1 Senator abstained. The Legislative Office has proposed 4 drafting amendments, but as I mentioned earlier, The committee considered that they would not be needed. I therefore request, on behalf of the committee, that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u228	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I will ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance yesterday with this bill... Ah, and Mrs. Senator! The Commission dealt with this law yesterday. I'm not gonna repeat what my predecessor said. The opinion on the bill was unanimously positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u230	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. The Minister isn't here. So what? It's a five-minute break. The minister has to be. We're adjourned until 1 953 p.m. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 47 to 19 minutes 50]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the session is resumed. The Minister has reached us, so there's no point waiting any further. We're back in session. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tadeusz Kościński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u231	Thank you very much. Good evening. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The purpose of the Act amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws is to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 June 2016. By that judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal declared the provisions of the Law on Enforcement in Administration which do not set the upper limit of enforcement costs to be incompatible with the Constitutional Constitutional Tribunal's Constitutional Tribunal's Constitutional Tribunal's Constitutional Tribunal's Constitutional Court's judgment to be incompatible with the Constitutional Rules on Enforcement Procedure in Administration, which do not specify the upper limit of enforcement costs, and the provisions ordering the collection of these costs to the full extent also in the case of voluntary payment of claims by the obliged party. The Constitutional Tribunal has not repealed these provisions, it has only ordered them to be amended. The Court pointed out in the explanatory memorandum of the judgment that the possibility of changing the system of charging and collecting enforcement costs, which are currently complicated, raises a number of doubts. Currently, enforcement costs are calculated on a percentage basis and the amount depends on the amount of the debt. The handling fee is 1% claims and enforcement fees depend on the enforcement measure applied and amount to 4, 5, 6, 8 or 10% claims. Currently, the amount of fees is not dependent on the enforcement authority's work and is not related to the effectiveness of the execution. Fees shall be payable even if the enforcement authority does not enforce any amount. The Act creates a new system for charging and collecting enforcement costs in administrative execution, consisting of a handling fee, enforcement fee and enforcement expenditure. The amount of the handling fee was fixed in a flat-rate amount of 40 PLN and 100 PLN. This reflects the expenditure to be incurred by the authorities at the initial stage of enforcement in connection with the operation of the implementing title. This service consists in verifying the data of the obliged person, assessing the correctness of the implementing title and then collecting information on the assets of the obliged person. In turn, the amount of the enforcement fee will be linked to the effect of the enforcement authority, i.e. the enforcement of funds or the voluntary payment of charges. If the enforcement authority's actions are not effective, there will be no obligation to pay the enforcement fee. The enforcement fee will be 10% enforced cash, no more than PLN 40 thousand Polish, and in the case of voluntary payment of 5% paid by the obliged cash, but no more than PLN 20 thousand Polish. The Act provides for an extension of the catalogue of enforcement expenses incurred by the enforcement authority, which in principle burden the obliged party. To the catalogue of expenditure was added, among others. expenditure on the payment of the court fee on the application for entry in the book of perpetual compulsory mortgage or the court fee for entry in the National Court Register for information on the initiation of the execution or its ineffectiveness. A preventive function of enforcement costs will play an important role in the new system of enforcement costs. The effect of the preventive impact is to raise awareness of the costs involved in failing to comply with the obligation. Already before the initiation of the enforcement procedure, the order will be notified of the amount of possible enforcement costs which will arise when the execution is initiated. This solution will mobilise those obliged to carry out their duties voluntarily, without the need for costly execution. The Act provides for a change in the system of granting reductions in the payment of enforcement costs, i.e. redemption and distribution into instalments by adopting solutions in line with the provisions of the Public Finance Act. In addition, the Act simplifies the regulation of the limitation period for the costs of warning and enforcement costs by introducing a three-year limitation period for those costs from the end of the calendar year in which the enforceable obligation has expired. The Act provides for the waiver of the bail-in fee, which is currently collected from the creditor in connection with the transfer by the enforcement authority of the funds enforced and amounts to 5% the amounts transferred to the creditor. This fee shall be levied on the creditor to the enforcement authority, even though the enforcement authority for carrying out the enforcement procedure already receives enforcement costs. The essence of the new solutions is the introduction of a new procedure for reopening executions. On the basis of the new solutions, the implementation title or exceptionally further enforcement title in the absence of an enforcement title by the enforcement authority will be the basis for the reopening of executions. Consequently, a copy of the implementing title will not be served in the enforcement procedure that has been reopened, but only a notification of the reopening of the execution. For this reason, the enforcement authority shall not charge the required handling fee due at the initial stage of the enforcement procedure. As a result of the introduction of a new system of enforcement costs, it is necessary to limit the amount of enforcement fees not enforced until the entry into force of the law and arising from existing rules. It is assumed that in enforcement proceedings initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act, costs will be charged on the basis of the existing rules, but with a reduction of their maximum. The handling fee will be charged in the amount of no more than PLN 100 and the execution fee will not be higher than PLN 40 000. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u232	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay a little longer, please. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. The first relates to this third category of execution costs, i.e. not a handling fee, not a enforcement fee, but enforcement expenses, which is what it's called. Is this new, or has it ever been in the system before? And are these expenses increasing or decreasing at the moment? The second case concerns the very idea of implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The judgment is dated June 2016, i.e. it has been equally three years since the judgment was delivered. In addition, the Act also provides for 18-month vacathio legis, which means that it will enter into force at the earliest in January 2021, and some of these provisions, which concern, as far as the bail-in fee is concerned, only in January 2022 at the current rate of work on the Act. Tell me why so long period of vacathio legis. What is so complicated about this bill that you have to torture debtors for another year and a half or even two and a half?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I took this function 10 days ago, so I'll allow myself to answer in writing, if possible. [[I'd like a detailed answer to the question...]] There you go. [[...which is the reason for such a long vacathio legis and whether it is not contrary to the very idea of executing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Just the fact that it's three years after, it's... well, it's already debatable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u235	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1228 and the report of the Commission In print No 1228 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Yesterday, the Committee on Budgets and Finance dealt with the Law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and some other laws. In this law we amend several laws, not only the VAT Act, but also the Energy Law, the Tax Law, the Excise Tax Act, the Tax Criminal Code, the National Tax Administration Act, the Bank Law, the Anti-Money Laundering Act and the Financing of Terrorism, as well as the Customs Law and the Law on the Amendment of the Tax Act on Goods and Services. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes in the various laws are very multifaceted. They are described in the opinion to the bill. I can only say that. A very important change is being introduced in the VAT Act. Namely VAT-7 and VAT-7K declarations we replace a new JPK_VAT declaration that will enter... This is a very big change for taxpayers and it has entered into force since 1 April 2020. This is a very important change introduced by this amendment of the VAT Act. There are also many point changes in the various laws. There was no discussion of these proposals at the committee meeting, the law was adopted unanimously, unanimously. Our Legislative Office had some kind of comment, but none of these comments were supported by the proposal for an amendment and therefore there was no discussion of these comments. Like I said, the committee has adopted this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u237	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're the Minister again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law aims to introduce additional VAT sealing solutions and excise duties, as well as to eliminate the obligation to send VAT-7 and VAT-7K declarations, which will be within JPK_VAT files. In addition, the Act provides for some simplification of VAT, among others. for the import of goods and supplies of immovable property. There are also substantial changes in energy law, which are correlated with changes in VAT and excise duties, in order to improve the efficiency of so-called. the fuel package. It also implements one of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The detailed changes are as follows. In the field of VAT, the so-called Customs Law. the fuel package, the main objective of which is to introduce solutions to prevent VAT fraud in the circulation of liquid fuels. The proposed amendments consist in introducing into the VAT Act a closed catalogue of goods covered by the fuel package regardless of the destination of those goods. The rules for issuing invoices to the receipt are modified. This solution is intended to eliminate empty invoices for receipts left by other customers. The amendment limits the possibility of applying VAT exemptions due to the level of sales. This applies to particularly sensitive industries, i.e. sales of automotive and motorcycle parts, online sales of perfumes, electronics and debt collection services. The Act introduces a new file, so-called. JPK_VAT, which contains a VAT return and records. VAT declarations will not be sent separately from JPK_VAT, they will become part of this file. The current annexes to the declaration will be removed. The summary information in domestic transactions will be abolished. Imports of goods will be simplified. The obligation to submit to customs and treasury authorities, 4 months after the import of VAT clearance documents on imports, a tax return, will be abolished. This information will be in the new JPK_VAT file. Other changes concern: the sale of real estate enforcement, so-called. VAT sanctions, flat-rate farmers, registration of taxable persons, definition of first residence, VAT settlement on imports of goods. Changes in excise duty. The act presented seals the trade in excise goods which are not subject to harmonised excise duties on the territory of the European Union, and in Poland they are subject to excise duties and to suspension of excise duties. In addition, the Act introduces an effective rate of taxation for synthetic lubricants; it clarifies and seals the changes in the CN classification of energy products introduced by the excise duty Act from 1 January of this year. The regulation on energy law consists in clarifying the definition of liquid fuels by indicating that certain products are fuel irrespective of their different uses. This will seal the licensing and monitoring system for the marketing, production and transport of fuels. The aim is to reduce the shadow economy in the area of liquid fuel companies. In addition, the Act provides that the taxable person and the payer of an individual tax account shall be made available by means of which payments shall be made in respect of PIT, CIT, VAT and non-tax claims constituting the revenue of the State budget. The purpose of the arrangements is to support banks and SKOKs in the proper performance of their obligations under the Law of 1 March 2018 on Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u239	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u240	The Minister said these laws are aimed at achieving several goals. One of them is not to issue receipts, which later are, I understand, an argument to issue false VAT invoices. In the meantime, despite the government's pressure, the right and necessary, to fight against dishonest payers, even bushes... Despite this, people still receive offers of empty invoices Empty, i.e. on request. And do you think this phenomenon is contained? In Bydgoszcz, in the previous term, there was such a centre for combating... because we are talking about invoices sent online at the moment. In Bydgoszcz, there used to be a facility that monitored, built tools to fight online abuse. Therefore, the cumulative question is whether the State has already dealt with this issue of online sales related to VAT counterfeiting. Almost everyone can send these offers Or do you think that this phenomenon is insurmountable because of the headquarters of those who are exhibiting their headquarters in distant countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u241	Mr. Senator, this change in this bill actually applies to receipts that are left at fuel stations by customers. Individuals who do not represent a company do not need such a receipt, and it is often the case that employees at the service station take these receipts that lie down, and these receipts will then sell back, to companies that convert it into invoices. This right here is going to be a requirement that in order to be able to convert this receipt into an invoice, you will need to have the company's NIP number in advance. So it'll rule it out right away... As for what Mr. Senator has raised, about invoices on the Internet, etc., there are more of these JPKs here, and you can smash the exhibitor and receive empty invoices. It's those rules, not that bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u242	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Family Benefits and the Act on Health Care Services financed by public funds. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1231, and the report of the Commission In print No 1231 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Yesterday, the Committee on Budget and Finance dealt with the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Family Benefits and the Act on Health Care provided by public funds. This is one of the elements of our programme commitment, namely the release of young people up to the age of twenty-six from income tax, from PIT. The bill is due to enter on August 1. From 1 August, young people who work on the basis of a contract of employment, contract-order, business relationship and cooperative employment will not pay tax. There is a limit which is set at PLN 85 000 528, i.e. within the first tax threshold. This limit is, of course, set so that young people are suddenly fictitiously not hired for some ridiculously high rates and thus avoid tax. Of course, this year's tax... This enters on 1 August and this limit for 2019 will be proportionally 5/12 of the annual limit. And from next tax year, of course, this limit of 85 thousand will apply. It is a law to give young people a chance to better enter the labour market. It is known that young people earn less, and of course they have needs, because they start families, they think about being independent, having their own apartment. Therefore, there is a proposal from the Government of Law and Justice, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, that young people who start their professional career start in Poland. The incentive that should encourage them to do so is that they will simply not pay PIT. To this bill was an analysis of our Legislative Office, you have it in front of you. She didn't end up with any proposals for amendments. During the debate, OPZZ spoke about various issues relating to the employment of young people, among others. Some employers avoid concluding employment contracts, other forms of employment, free traineeships. Such elements were raised in this speech. Of course, the bill was unanimously adopted by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. Mr Tadeusz Kościński again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the Act is to reduce the fiscal burden of young workers and contractors. This will make it easier for them to start work and at the same time give them the opportunity to return to the labour market in the grey economy. This will also contribute to improving the labour force participation rate of young people and the decline in unemployment in this age group. The purpose of the Act is achieved by exempting from tax PIT income from work on the company's turnover and contract-orders concluded with the company, received until the end of the twenty-sixth year of age. The age of the taxpayer at the time of income and not the age at the time of conclusion of the contract or the performance of the work will be determined. At the same time, age will be determined taking into account the full date of birth, day, month, year and not only month or year. The exemption will be limited by a quota limit. Starting with revenues obtained from 1 January 2020, the annual exemption limit will be PLN 85 000 528, i.e. as much as the upper limit of the first tax band. As regards the revenue generated this year, the exemption limit will be lower and will amount to 5/12 of this amount, i.e. 35 000 637 PLN and 67 gr, as the exemption will enter into force on 1 August 2019 and will apply to the revenue generated from that date. Payments will be able to apply the exemption as early as this year if the taxpayer makes a written declaration that he is using it. The excess revenue over the limit of PLN 85 000 528, in 2019 over PLN 35 000 636 respectively, will be taxed on general terms by applying the tax scale. Other tax preferences, including the so-called "tax preferences', will apply to this surplus. the tax-free amount and the possibility of calculating the tax in the manner provided for by spouses and single parents. With the new rules, people under the age of twenty-six will receive a higher salary. A young taxpayer who receives a monthly salary from the employment relationship of PLN 2 000 250, i.e. a minimum salary for the work of this year, will receive a monthly income of PLN 133 and a yearly income of PLN 1592. The taxpayer receiving the average remuneration forecasted for the current year, or PLN 4,000 765, will receive a monthly profit of PLN 355, or PLN 4,000 261 per year. In the case of remuneration of PLN 7 000 127 and 33 gr, i.e. PLN 85 000 528 per year, i.e. on a scale level, will earn a monthly profit of PLN 564 or PLN 6 000 768 per year. It is estimated that over 2 million young people will benefit from the proposed solutions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u246	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u247	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, why such haste, which complicates the bill very much, because this year is divided into 5/12. Certain notifications that are already under way may need to be corrected or supplemented. And if there's already this rush, do you think there's a real fulfillment of the terms of this bill, which is from August 1st, which is in a few hours... And yet we do not know what the Senate will decide, what the President will decide, especially since there are constitutional and other reservations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u248	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u249	Thank you. Mr. Senator, about the rush, it's a relative term, so I can't speak. As for August 1st, if this is signed by your president on a later date, it will still enter into force with an earlier date, from August 1st. That's how I understand it. [[Does that mean it's gonna be anti-dating?]] Yes. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[There will be no anti-dating.]] [[Well, the Minister said yes, and it's true.]] That's how I understand it, but the answer will be in writing. 'Cause that's exactly where...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u250	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Kaminski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u251	Minister, I have a question. Zero PIT is valid for months, days and years until the age of twenty-six. This last month... If someone e.g. was born on the 15th, will this last month actually be calculated proportionally or not? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Tadeusz Kościński: Yes, until...]] Don't you think that's gonna make it harder for the employer to settle the finals later? [[Voice from the room: Full months.]] Oh, no, not full months, that's right.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u252	But from the taxpayer's point of view, the best part is that it's until the day of birth to... then it's equal to everyone, not that... [[Yeah, but this last month isn't gonna be a whole month's pay...]] No, it's for birthday. [[Yeah, that's gonna be...]] So if someone was born first, then... [[This will certainly make it difficult for the employer.]] [[14/30 or 14/31?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u253	Good. Thank you very much. You're still Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u254	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the end of this period of release, so I'd call it. Well, it lasts until the age of twenty-six, until a specific day. But there are also certain limit amounts. The limitation is either the time, or the amount of PLN 85,000 528 in full year, and there in this entry 5/12 of this... Therefore, the question is: is this amount also limited due to the end of the twenty-sixth year of age? In short: if someone turns twenty-six years old, I shoot, on July 1 to be half a year old, can he earn in zero PIT the full amount of 85 thousand PLN, or half this amount? [[Half.]] Okay, half of it, but if he got his income in the first half of the year, did he... It's not obvious to me. Is this specified in the bill? That's the question. There are two restrictions here. Time and quota.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u255	Mr. Senator, we will respond in writing to this. [[Again? Good.]] I'm in... [[Good. Thank you.]] I don't want to lie. [[And then it's just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u256	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Rulewski, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... in the present part. Well, I would like to interest the High House in a proposal for this law. Already in the question, I showed that the bill had a sign of haste. There have been statements that it is connected with elections, but I will allow myself to point out that every government should have the freedom to conduct its own policy, including taking into account the electoral calendar, that is its right and I will not question it or even criticize it. However, this haste gives rise to the doubts that Senator Czerwiński was talking about: how to account for it? But even more doubts are raised as earlier payments or unpaid advances... as the various benefits that are derived from income will be realized, especially during this transitional period. Because I understand that from 1 January next year it will be a stable system, but at this time when we are surprised as tax payers Or even the taxpayers themselves are surprised by such a thing. The various problems will undoubtedly arise and the accounting offices will have a lot of work to do. Well, let's face it, the date of entry into force of the law is August 1, which is from that day on, actually, these obligations will be borne by taxpayers, payers, of course, tax offices, family benefits departments. It's a subject I'm interested in. Where changes have to be made or not. Although the law excludes this, it is neutral for such benefits, because it speaks only of one purpose, namely to reduce taxes. And in order to finish this thread, I'm gonna say that I don't think that this kind of action is... I allow myself to describe them as positive, although it is necessary to take into account the fact that this law introduces... There may be allegations of violation of the Constitution and the Non-discrimination Act It is possible because it divides the tax payers biologically. I take it that tax law and taxation perform many functions, including, of course, social policy, are part of social policy The role of various social organizations is known, of course, primarily as a fiscal element and as a response to unexpected situations occurring around Poland or Poland itself, such as floods, natural disasters. And I share that thought The tax system should be flexible. I'm gonna use this one surveillance out of Canada. Well, at a time when fuel prices rose sharply It is known that Canada's economy is largely based on transport The Minister immediately reacted with a reduction in the tax rates for all carriers or carriers using oil. I would like to see this happen in Poland, too, so that we do not have to wait long and not always effectively for a statutory change. And as for this curiosity that I'd like to offer you. In anticipation that you will support her... The law divides taxpayers biologically, into young people, up to 26 years old, and others. Of course, other divisions are outlined there, too, due to income and family status. But let's just leave it at that. The legislator assumes that it is, as the rapporteur said, that it activates the market, especially for young people. The two states also added that it is intended to solve the social problems of this group of taxpayers and therefore includes students and employees themselves. But when you take this border and take into account the fact that a young man is a man up to the age of twenty-six, although it is sometimes said that by the 30th... So let's say 26, this is a balanced number. The Act does not notice the fact that many people start their professional activity only at the age of 25 or 26. Let's think about the graduates, and this particular case is the medical academy, now the university where they're headed. Doing the task of specialization, which is common, causes... Well, our doctors are dropping out of Poland and they're driving. to Germany, where this task of specialisation is, let's say, highly paid. This group of taxpayers, future taxpayers, is de facto omitted in this law. Even if they finish their studies early, a period of relief, the government's friendship with good change towards them will be very shortened. Theoretically, this bill is for people who do not go to any schools at all, only meet the age requirement. Yes? He doesn't have to go to school, although this duty is constitutional, it's written down... I once read that 40,000 kids don't go to school. It's not just because he doesn't want to, because some health reasons can't do that... Teacher supervision, education, isn't enough. But this is obviously a margin, 40,000. The key thing is: in Poland, you can start working at the age of 16 as a minor. Thus, for them there are preferences, they may not pay taxes for 10 years, while a group of young people who undertake to work hard in high school and later higher, will not benefit from these preferences at all or benefit from it in a very limited period of time. And let's add that this is going to be at a time that is an internship period and where wages are very small. So this tax relief is going to be very small, in summary terms. And the second question. It is a pity that the state did not pay attention to what is a problem of the Polish labour market. This is not a young age at the moment, although this unemployment rate is indeed higher. The problem is that there are no professionals. Yes? Today the unemployed are mostly people without a job, they are not employed. I repeat, no professionals. This law does not respond to this, the legislators do not respond to this situation on the Polish market. My amendment aims to extend the period of relief, i.e. It covers people up to the age of 30, but selectively. It's about those who aren't on the market or, more importantly, those who don't want to take the trouble of college... I'm speaking in general now, but I'm going to spell it out precisely in the amendment in writing. Professional studies, which the OECD defines as mathematical and physical studies... No... Yeah, the OECD puts it that way. So, except for social sciences... By extending this limit to the age of 30, we are primarily equalizing opportunities, but the most important thing is that we create what is not here. I observe the drama of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who threw the slogan three years ago: electric cars. I shared his intention at the time, but he made a mistake, maybe he didn't have the knowledge that this car wouldn't be done by a person without education. The result is that it was commissioned by German engineers. So this car will rather be German and the profits will also be German. This amendment is an end to what is the biggest issue of the Third Republic. We have introduced a market for teaching completely free and arbitrary, aside from... And the market chooses the easiest and most profitable. A lot of graduates learn in social sciences schools, don't learn engineers. And that's the main reason why today and for a few more years... That is why the amendment talks about 5 years, not a year, and does not extend for 28 years, because this does not solve the situation. This is a proposal in which, in support of various changes in Poland, I want to remove this biggest scandal, the conspiracy of students who naturally do not want to learn difficult things, mathematics, physics, crossed-out geometry. I want to interrupt this excessive love of parents for such raised children, but first of all stop the fact that unfortunately Polish science, Polish pedagogy, alone, of its own free will, did not offer you a cure for leaving the impasse on this 100th anniversary, in the name of the patriotic life of Poland. This impasse, which is a civilizational impasse and which covers everyone. That's why the amendment... [[Mr. Senator...]] One last sentence, because I don't want to extend it by five minutes yet. What is an OECD? Well, the OECD knows what it is that divided science into natural sciences, engineering and technical sciences, medical sciences, health sciences, agricultural sciences, and others called social sciences. The amendment gives the Minister the authority to designate those professions which have professional characteristics in Poland, but also says that the Minister can determine this, given the labour market's professional needs and the conditions of economic turnover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u258	Senator Jerzy Czerwiński in correction mode. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u259	Senator Rulewski used my name, my statement when making reservations about the very basis of this law. On the contrary, I am pleased that this law will enter into force. And the shorter the date of its entry into force, the closer it will be to this day, the better. This is a very good move for young people. In turn if I am making a question, it is only for this purpose, to indicate the possibilities of different interpretations of certain passages of the law. [[Not the basics...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u260	Thank you very much, Senator. [[I didn't use the word "fundamental," I just said he had reservations about the implementation of this law.]] Thank you very much. There are no more senators for the discussion. [[Me too.]] Oh, excuse me, Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! To be honest, I was a little surprised by Senator Rulewski's speech because he raised so many different threads not related to this bill... But I'm gonna start over. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a saying that there are two things in life, taxes and death. Today we are eliminating one of these things, namely taxes, because under the law young people will not have to pay taxes until they are twenty-six years old. We are, of course, talking about personal income tax. And that, I can say, is a revolutionary solution, because young people will have a concrete increase in wages on their belts, they will feel it in their accounts. The Minister, presenting the bill, said: in the case of young people it will be up to 6 thousand PLN in the pocket. Of course, this will be proportional to the income, i.e. with a minimum salary of about PLN 3 000. And that money stays in young people's pockets. It is, in my opinion, a non-controversial law which, of course, implements the Law and Justice programme, one of the elements of the Kaczyński Five. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has several objectives - an economic objective, as well as a social objective. It gives young people breath. Young people today will want to work quickly because they will know that they can benefit from relief, and they will want to work legally. Employers will hire them legally, too, because they won't have to pay taxes. The bill comes into force on August 1st because we wanted it to come in as soon as possible. Law and Justice is this political formation, which not only promises, but when it promises something, it realizes it. And today we want to be credible for our voters, for Poles, and show that we give that not only do we promise at conventions, but these promises are transformed into legal acts, they start to function and people can benefit from it. As for the date of August 1, don't worry. I think that's what I'm hoping for. The bill will be signed very quickly. We're gonna pass it on Friday, so you're gonna have many, many days to analyze this bill. But if, theoretically, the President had signed this bill, I do not know, August 3rd or August 8th, it will still enter on August 1st, because there is a general rule in the law that if there is a provision favourable to the taxpayer, it can be introduced backwards. On a retroactive basis, provisions on the taxable person must not be introduced. So anyway, this bill will apply from August 1, no matter when it is signed. I am convinced that the President will sign such a non-controversial bill very quickly and it will be able to enter into force. Now such a practical issue: as far as these tax cases are concerned, employees will be able to report to their employer themselves asking them not to deduct this tax, and if they do not report it and this tax will be deducted from them, then they will simply write back this amount in their annual accounts, of course, and the tax will be refunded. We are talking about a transitional year, because by 31 July they will pay the tax, and from 1 August to the end of the year of course this tax will not be, so at the latest in the annual settlement will be refund of this tax. And if they make a declaration to their employers, they will already have an increased salary from 1 August, without this tax. There is, of course, this threshold of 85 thousand, as I said, because we meant that no one would do absurd things like hire a 20-year-old and give him 100 thousand zlotys of wages so that he wouldn't pay tax a month. Yes? And we're gonna get out of the tax system. $85,000 divided into 12 months. That's over 6,000 a month. Well, I think this limit for young people is very high. Yes? It is rare for young people to earn more than 6 000 gross, so de facto all young people.Like the Minister said, it will be approx. 2 million employees They will benefit from this solution. Of course, the annual limit will be 85 grand. This year's gonna be $35,000... that $35,000 is $3/5... [[5/12.]] 5/12, I'm sorry. But this is the annual limit, so he can be used. Same as 85 grand, right? There might be someone who's gonna make the first month, I don't know, 100,000. It's over and that limit won't come in... So nobody's gonna lose anything. The limit shall not be settled on a pro rata monthly basis, but, of course, on a yearly basis. The senator raised a question that was also examined by the Legislative Office, whether it is fair, fair that we share taxpayers. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we share taxpayers. There's a difference between taxpayers. In income we share − e.g. There's a whole relief system. Yes? Someone has kids and maybe get some relief. There are people with disabilities. Perhaps people in one year of age may also deduct taxes of various kinds. So this age difference already exists in the Polish tax system and these divisions are. Why 26 years? Mr. Senator said it beautifully, only then, in the later part of his speech, he had already gone into the woods... Well, it's assumed that a young man is like that until he's twenty-six. And here I agree with Senator Rulewski. Of course, we would like to have 27, 28, 30 years here, but generally someone in Poland has to pay taxes so that the senator will have a pension once. Is he already retiring... [[But it's really doubtful...]] Well, so far, the economic indicators under the rule of law and justice are sensational. And some of the dream of the Civic Platform's governments is that these economic indicators should be achieved. Generally, ladies and gentlemen, we want to encourage young people to work to enter the labour market quickly. Mr. Senator made this whole educational path here... And we, ladies and gentlemen, do not encourage the tax system to learn or not to learn. We are, however, thinking of rebuilding education through your criticism of reform, precisely through industry education... Yes, Mr. Senator. Why do we have a problem today? We want to encourage young people not to choose high school all the time and then go to study Mediterranean archaeology, but to finish engineering studies, which means to go to a construction school first, to an electronic technique... That's why we're building industry education, Senator. And that has nothing to do with this tax solution. Besides, I think it's a solution, which means that we young people are exempt from tax, maybe encourage these people, because they're going to have some practice in industry school, they're going to have some pay, they're not going to pay tax... Yes? Of course, some will benefit and others will not benefit. There are people who are 30 years old and aren't working. And they're not gonna benefit, are they? Or they'll be 35 years old and your amendment won't help them either. Besides, I have not read this amendment, but on the basis of what I have heard in your statement of this amendment, I think it is somewhat absurd. You're saying that the bill divides people, and it's only your amendment that divides people, because there's gonna be industries, and that's what I'm gonna say, in some ways... So it wouldn't just be an age criterion. 'Cause you're holding up the age criterion. But you're introducing another industry criterion to that. The OECD, I understand, some... I mean, that's what you're trying to figure out. And that's what's horrible... It's not real at all, when it comes to putting it into practice, which is that people are going to sign up in some competitions, schools... It's unrealistic at all. Ladies and gentlemen, if someone enters the labour market faster, they will continue to benefit from this solution. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. So this is the encouragement of the young: go, work. As far as students are concerned, we also know, Dear Members, that many students work during their studies. And a lot of students study in absentia. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. So they will also be able to benefit from these solutions when entering the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, this is a fantastic bill and I hope that, unanimously, it will be adopted unanimously by the Senate next Friday. Because it is a matter of great importance for 2 million Poles who will be able to earn more without paying taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u262	Thank you very much, Senator. [[I've got five more minutes.]] Five more minutes, right? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Everyone here is my witness that I didn't want to speak. But Senator Frost, the rapporteur, was still in economics, even invited me not to say: he provoked I'd like to speak. Well, Mr. Senator, there are certain things, as you said... And besides, it's going to be 500+, it's going to last at least for the rest of the life of those who use it... [[If you rule, it won't last.]] All I'm saying is that simple solutions are close to profanity. No tax system, including that Civic Platform that used to... No, I'm sorry, it was the KLD who once offered a linear tax, equal to 15%. for all And it was very simple. This even allowed the KLD to obtain voting rights for luck for a short time. Because it was simple... or not even simple, but simple. Economic life today is based on many factors, among others. The fact that the labour market needs salesmen at the market today. And they're gonna benefit from a lot, not learning anything, but it's just today, until the Internet or other techniques destroy the markets. But I'm sure you'll always need a doctor, a computer scientist, certainly any educated man. That is the simple law of civilization's development. If you are wrong about the OECD, then I explain to you: these 27 or already 28 OECD countries, which fortunately belong to Poland, which was not easy, sir, is based on technology and industry. Industry is not made up of political scientists, sociologists don't take anything away from them, because they need them too. But the industry is made up of engineers. That's why your and Mr Morawiecki's drama is that he doesn't know what he wants. He's got good ideas, just weak skills. Poland needs reform today Yes, you're right. But not a reform, which is that schools are closed, or those professional schools are not enough. The Lord says, "Multiple threads." You've moved everything. I'll tell you what, I'll remind you: there's a collusion, a collusion, just like everywhere, that children don't want to learn math, physics and chemistry, which means they don't want to be the professionals you're talking about. Because that's where you need calculations, there's math, there's computer science, there's chemistry, there's technology, there you have to do projects, there you have to go to labs, you can't write works on the tram. Parents Listen to Children Today It's not the children who listen to their parents. So they're submissive. It's weird at all, because once the commune preyed on the expansion of engineering staff. And the third case. We politicians, including industry education, as you call it, have done nothing to reverse this tendency, not to teach what is nice, but what is necessary for these children, for these parents and for the state, or perhaps even for civilization, because science is not only for the state, but for the whole civilization. Mr. Senator, it's multifaceted, but I've been watching it for 20 years. No team has just been able to remodel, reform the labour market according to the needs they are. Today, people are a barrier to development, as always. There's a shortage of professionals. If you're here as a government representative with a lot of support... Well, I don't think you've ever been to any employment office. Ask him over there. Even when there was a lot of unemployment, who was needed for work? I was a small entrepreneur, and I couldn't find a computer scientist to network copiers. That's what happened from the beginning, 20 years ago. And that's the development. That makes you not have to give away money, as you say and do today. Besides, in Polish legislation there are several elements of motivation for work: these are internships, additions. There's another problem you don't notice, which is weird. Today, the basis of youth income, even the 18-, 19-year-old one, is not just the work outlined as in the law, the employment relationship. Today, the farmer's son, the farmer's son, I'm looking at your senator, he's breaking up, and I always think he's like that, although I don't think he's right. Sir or any other young man is doing business. He doesn't ask for a place to work, but he wears it. So in the bill of these people, you delete those with initiative, with an idea, with devotion. You delete them in this bill. You are deleting the contract for the work, and this work is the result of free activity without expense, without your gifts in the form of a workplace, in the form of reliefs, 500+ et cetera, et cetera. They're on their own. You in this bill discriminate, delete... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...and there's equality between sectors. You don't even understand. And finally. I don't think you know the constitution, Senator. The Constitution, I think in the final part, says that each of them, I repeat: each of them is obliged to bear state danins.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u264	Thank you very much. Senator Frost, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have to find a way to answer these... I listened so much to the senator and it looked like the discussion was about education. [[No.]] Yeah, 'cause you're all about education. You're just saying you're opposed to simple taxes. I'm asking you, what have you been doing in the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club for many years, which had the password 3x15? Have you forgotten? [[She didn't.]] What if she didn't? [[Liberals.]] Come on, ask me... [[Liberals.]] Liberals? And who was he, so to speak, Prime Minister Tusk, head of the Civic Platform? Well, it's a good thing you even remembered that. The fact that the Civic Platform later tricked people, didn't implement this program, that's a whole different thing. But that's what they promised, right? If you were so bad on that Civic Platform, you were in it for a long time, and so to speak, you were doing well. I can even see you smiled when I told you Donald Tusk. That's one thing. System... I too am in favour of a fairly simple system. Our tax system is not simple. This solution that we are introducing is simply easy to enforce, it is simple for the whole system of charging this tax, and here there is no problem. I don't remember which colleague, I think Senator Czerwiński said: and what's going to happen, like the eighth... It's no problem, because people haven't been employed since the first day of the month, they come in since the eighth, ninth, today the systems charge taxes, today there's no problem with calculating taxes during the month. I'm surprised you even have such doubts about that. And as for education, Mr. Senator... [[Yes?]] ...I agree with you here, we disgusted the professions after 1989, that people like that, slimy and so... For many years there have been people educated in the PRL system, now it is over. And it's been so fashionable for so many years... Mr. Senator, you've been in this policy for a very long time, it's for your public activities, when you performed important public functions, with different governments, well, nothing happened. The government of Law and Justice has just arrived, first Beata Szydło, now Mateusz Morawiecki, and we turn... We had to switch names, vocational education to professional ones, because the professions were not familiar with people, so they invented these names, industry schools, and we really want to know... There's no nurses today. What's the government doing? I know that, in my L.A.U.S., we give scholarships so that young people want to study nursing because they're missing nurses. There is a whole system of actions of this government, and of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, and individual ministers, encouraging young people to be educated in competitions and not to go... If there's an emergency problem with this year's overlap today, then you should know where there aren't enough seats. Yeah, in those high schools, especially the famous ones. Somehow I didn't hear there were gaps, I don't know, in the construction school, in the construction school, or in the electronic school. We are still not able to stop this system so that people go to industry school so that they can learn in high school, because they just need the market of professionals. But it's kind of a side discussion. We're talking about the tax system here, we're talking about young people... And if that's what you want... Well, when do you get that expertise? At school, of course, but in practice. And if this young man goes to work quickly because he's gonna be encouraged by this tax system: man, if you go to work, you learn in a bakery, you learn in construction, you're not gonna pay the tax yet. Well, maybe he'll go. And that's the answer. Even for those of yours... [[He's gonna go to high school and...]] But, you know, maybe somebody's gonna go to industry school because he's gonna know that as soon as he goes to work, he's gonna make money, he's not gonna... And maybe someone will want to take advantage of this relief, go to the labour market, and then go to college? There are different possibilities. I think it's a great bill, a great bill. And I hope, Senator, that you will vote for her. Thank you. [[You forgot about the engineers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u266	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Jan Rulewski has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. Does the representative of the government want to respond to the legislative proposal put forward? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Tadeusz Kościński: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u267	Thank you very much. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications submitted at the 80th Senate meeting to the Act amending certain laws to reduce payment congestion, Senate printing No 1229, will take place on 12 July 2019 at 8.15 p.m. in room No 217 on Friday 2019. The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance will be held immediately after the end of the joint meeting on the examination of requests submitted to the Act amending the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and certain other laws, Senate printing No 1227, and the Act amending the Act on income tax on natural persons, the Law on family benefits and the Act on healthcare services financed by public funds, Senate printing No 1231. Joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate on the Investment Act for the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939, the branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk, print no.1224, will take place tomorrow, i.e. 11 July 2019, Thursday, 8.30 p.m. in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-10-senat-82-1.u268	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 21 minutes 01]]
