ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I am calling for the secretaries of today's proceedings for Daniel Milewski, Paweł Rychlik, Marta Kubiak and Piotr Uściński. Members Daniel Milewski and Paweł Rychlik will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak and Daniel Milewski. I consider the minutes of the 84th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! On 24 July, Władysław Józef Skrzypek - Doctor of Humanities, President Włocławka in 2002-2006, Member of the Third Sejm. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising, print No 3708. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 3706. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has submitted a report on the Government's draft law on the financial support of inland vessels, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund, print No 3693. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Extraordinary Commission has submitted a report on the Government draft law amending certain laws to reduce regulatory burdens, print No 3701. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, opposition to the item on the agenda was raised: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the draft law amending the electoral code law, print No 3662 and 3683. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to keep it on the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of Let's get to the vote. Who among you is in favour of keeping the item on the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law amending the electoral code law, prints 3662 and 3683, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 231, against - 170, holding down 2. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion of the committee's report on the draft act on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation setting out the course of the state border line. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that, due to the failure of authorised entities to report on current information and questions, these points will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising (Print No 3708). The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 75th anniversary of the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising. The Warsaw Uprising was one of the most heroic and tragic Polish battles of World War II and the largest underground military action in Europe occupied by the Germans. It exploded on August 1, 1944. Its aim was to liberate Warsaw from the hands of Nazi invaders even before the entry of Soviet troops and the restoration of legal and sovereign state authorities in the capital. The insurgents fought a heroic battle against Germany and their Russian-speaking helpers from collaborating formations. An uneven fight lasted 63 days, during which the Nazis massacreed the civilian population and destroyed the city. Mass murders of genocide were carried out on Mokotów, Ochota, Wola and Downtown. In view of the military advantage of the enemy, in the absence of significant external assistance, both from the Allies and the USSR, on 2 October 1944 representatives of the Home Army Headquarters signed the surrender act. The Warsaw Uprising became a symbol of the courage and self-sacrifice of Poles fighting for freedom alone. Their martyrdom for almost half a century of communist rule was denied. Nevertheless, the memory of the heroic break of the inhabitants of the capital survived in the national consciousness of Poles. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays the highest homage and respects all the heroes of the Warsaw Uprising, both soldiers fighting on barricades and residents of the capital who lost their lives during armed clashes. I propose that the Sejm adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Long-term applause]] [[Some Members chant: Hello and glory to the heroes! Hello and praise the heroes! Hello and praise the heroes!]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 75th anniversary of the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal. I've made a formal request.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Extraordinary for the examination of draft electoral law laws - hour. 14, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3:30.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u3	Thank you. A formal proposal has been presented by Mr Stanisław Nitras. There you go. [[Game in the O.R.]] Sławomir Nitras, I'm sorry. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u4	This Stanislaw is such a wish. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I have indeed asked for a moment of reflection for all of us. A formal motion requesting a recess for your marshal. We will continue to consider the agenda for this meeting. You can't, ladies and gentlemen, put your heads in the sand. We're not kids. You have to answer for your actions. You have to face public opinion, you have to face journalists. You can't pretend for a week that you don't know about the problem. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! I appeal to you, in the name of your seriousness and concern for the seriousness of this House, to face this House, with the journalists who are waiting for you outside, and to answer the questions: Did you fly with your family for private purposes to Rzeszow? How many times have you flown? How much did those flights cost? Did it happen in the press that your family was flying without you? These are questions you can't escape, Mr. Marshal, you can't escape them, and you have a duty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] before the Poles, before the Sejm, answer these questions. Information about this...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u5	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u6	...must be on the agenda of the Sejm meeting. [[Applause]] [[Answer. Answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u7	Thank you, sir. The request for interruption has been filed. This is a formal proposal, although the justification does not apply to the agenda of the current Sejm meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal will be put to the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please raise your hand and press the button. [[Have courage.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] 398 Members voted. Za - 166, against - 228, has stopped 4. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Voice from the room: Dismissed.]] We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on the general agricultural census in 2020 (prints 3598 and 3649). I ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law on the general agricultural census in 2020 contained in print No 3598. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered the draft law at its meeting on 16 July 2019. Poland is required to carry out a general agricultural census in 2020, as recommended by the United Nations. Food and Agriculture and European Union legislation. The census data will be used in the country, but will also be transmitted to the Statistical Office of the European Union and used for EU statistics. It is not possible to collect the required set of data on all agricultural holdings without a general agricultural inventory. The implementation of the universal agricultural census in 2020 in the long term could have beneficial economic, social and environmental impacts. These effects will result from the proper use of data obtained during the inventory. Comprehensive data presenting the state of the agricultural sector will be added in the process of identifying the most important problems of agriculture and rural areas and in creating national agricultural policy, in the framework of negotiations in the EU, which will be important for the future of Polish agriculture and rural development, for example. in the course of negotiations on the direction of the reform of the common agricultural policy and on the size of the EU budget to support this policy, the planning of the most cost-effective agricultural activities by farmers and the planning of other economic activities. In the long term, the economic impact of the census will therefore mainly be reduced to facilitating the selection of appropriate organisational, financial and economic tools for agriculture and rural areas. With the same assumption, the long-term environmental and social impacts of the inventory are mainly to facilitate the creation of environmental programmes and to address rural social problems more effectively. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development requests the High Sejm to adopt the draft law in print No 3649, which takes into account the amendments adopted at the committee meeting on 16 July 2019. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u9	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Małecki will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law on the general agricultural census in 2020, print No 3598. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed provisions are intended to form the legal basis for the implementation of the general agricultural census in 2020. This need is dictated by the need for statistics on Polish agriculture and the FAO recommendations contained in the global agricultural inventory programme of the 2020 round, as well as by the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1337/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on integrated agricultural statistics and repealing Regulations (EC) No 1166/2008 and (EU) No 1337/2011. European legislation obliges Poland and other Member States to carry out an agricultural census... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u11	I'm so sorry. I'm asking you to move the conversations outside the Plenary Room. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u12	European legislation obliges Poland and other Member States to carry out an agricultural census within the same period and subject matter. According to the intention of the designer, the general agricultural census would be carried out on the territory of the Republic of Poland by 1 September to 30 November 2020 and include data as at 1 June 2020. The general agricultural census as a statistical survey will provide a wide range of information on agricultural holdings at all levels of territorial division of the country. They will be used to update data on agricultural holdings and related households and to analyse and evaluate the changes that took place between 2010 and 2020, which is essential for both national and European agricultural policy. In the case of Polish, still fragmented agriculture, the general agricultural census is an extremely valuable tool, because it allows, unlike representative research, to obtain full and detailed information. They are all the more valuable because the last such lists were carried out in 2002 and 2010, and there is no doubt that since then many changes have been made in Polish agriculture. implementing the common agricultural policy. The inventory will provide data on the units operating in agriculture and their equipment, on agricultural production and non-agricultural activities and on their labour costs, as well as on organic production and the environmental impact of agriculture. This data is further complemented by data collected in the planned 2021 period. The National Census of Population and Housing will outline the socio-demographic and economic situation of farmers, the ageing of the rural population and the problem of successors, the employment situation in agriculture, the degree of rural development and the environmental impact of agriculture. In conclusion, the introduction of provisions providing the legal basis for the universal agricultural census in 2020 is needed and expected. It will enable our international commitments to be met and will serve to ensure that our agricultural policy interests are optimal. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposal submitted by the Government for a law on the general agricultural census in 2020 and advocates its referral to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u13	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will be presented by Mr Artur Dunin. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law on the general agricultural census in 2020 is presented in print No 3598. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to inform you that the general agricultural census is a statistical project aimed at collecting, collecting, processing and disseminating data on agricultural structures, aimed at providing comprehensive statistical information for Poland's agricultural policy as well as the European Union, as well as for representatives of science, business, local government units and other users. Since the general agricultural census was carried out in Poland in 2002 and 2010, there have been a lot of changes in agriculture related, among others. the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, as well as changes in the eating habits of the population in the transition to modern livestock feeding methods, as well as our expectations as consumers have changed. The agricultural censuses as the only statistical survey so far have enabled many data to be collected and presented not only at the lowest level of territorial division - in municipalities - but also at the level of agricultural holdings. The total cost of the general agricultural census, according to the provisions of the Act, is 243 000 000. PLN, of which 225 753 thousand. PLN will be financed by the State budget and an amount of 17 247 thousand. zł - from the European Union. The European Union's funds will finance the following tasks: the remuneration of accountants collecting data by direct interview of 11 819 000. PLN and personal salaries, with the exception of salaries, which I have just said, in the amount of 5428 thousand. zł. The Act contains pre-awards for individual coordinators, as well as for persons who will deal with the census. Thus, the general commissioner-in-chief will be able to receive three times the average salary. For voivodship Commissioners and their deputies, this will be twice the average salary, etc. In advance, it is known where the money will land, and it should be allocated to agricultural activities. Ladies and gentlemen! The census is needed, which is why the Civic Platform Club supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Kukiz Club15 will be presented by Jarosław Sachajko. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law on the general agricultural census in 2020. Such an undertaking as carrying out an agricultural census is very valuable and necessary, because it will allow you to fully understand the state and condition of Polish agriculture. The idea of the census should therefore be supported, especially since it will be the second agricultural census after Poland's accession to the European Union. It will be particularly interesting to compare the results of the next year's census with the information provided in the 2010 census. This comparison will allow for a reliable assessment of the effects, advantages and difficulties of Poland's accession to the European Union for the Polish agricultural sector. At the same time, I would like to stress very strongly that the results of the census, all the information it will provide, must be the starting point for a broad social debate on agriculture, farmers or the processing industry. However, already a year before the agricultural census was carried out, it is clear the scale of the problems and difficulties faced by Polish farmers. The lack of real prospects for rural development is already a major problem. Just a comparison of the 2002 and 2010 census shows this phenomenon. The total number of agricultural holdings over these 8 years decreased by 656 000, i.e. by more than 22%. The age structure of Polish farmers is increasingly unfavourable from year to year. The problem is often the lack of continuity and the exchange of generations. Small and medium-sized farms are becoming less profitable each year and do not allow family support. At one time, the family was able to make a decent living with a five-acre farm. Today it is not possible, even when you have a threefold larger area. The Polish farmer was brought into the role of supplier of cheap agricultural raw materials and the networks of intermediaries, traders and processors, i.e. the sectors of the agricultural sector, most often the most profitable, are controlled by large foreign capital. In the European Union, Polish farmers are not treated equally with farmers from Member States: direct payments per capita are among the lowest in the European Union. Nothing changes in this dimension over the years, regardless of which crew exercises power. Agriculture in the same stepmother way was treated by SLD, PO, PSL and is now by PiS. A question should therefore be asked about the key causes of this tragic state of affairs. Everything that representatives of the Kukiz15 movement have been saying for years about shaping the Polish system, electoral ordination, direct democracy or real empowerment of citizens is applicable and important in this matter. Agricultural policy and government issues are not separate issues, but are closely linked, which many people unfortunately do not know or simply do not want to know. From how Members' elections take place, whether from how many people have a direct and binding decision-making vote, expressed in the form of a referendum, as is the case, for example. in Switzerland, it depends on the functioning of our country in all spheres, including agriculture. The enormous potential of Polish agriculture, its activity and capacity for self-organization could eventually be realized. Today, these civic forces are bound and limited by the ruling partyocracy and various kinds of political-social arrangements. Finally, I stress once again that it is important to focus on solutions to current agricultural policy problems, but we also need to remember a much broader system context, on which the repair of the Polish state should depend. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u17	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will be presented by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My vote will be the club's office. PSL-KP on the law which allows to carry out a general agricultural census next year, i.e. the law on the general agricultural census. It is worth noting that agricultural censuses take place cyclically. The last one was 10 years ago. It allowed us to obtain information about the state of Polish agriculture, which has changed in the previous decade. I think that a similar task, or even the same, will have a census that we will carry out in 2020. Any decision taken by a farmer, whether by an entrepreneur or by a minister or by anyone, should be supported by in-depth analysis. The agricultural economy is a particular area of business activity and therefore having correct information, a correct assessment of the current situation is necessary in case of good changes, proposals for good rules. These moments and elements of the State's influence on business development are relatively few. This is primarily a tax system, in agriculture it is also of great importance, or parataxes, burdens, e.g. in recent years, agriculture has been subject to additional fees for the collection of water for economic purposes. I'm guessing that's gonna come up in the inventory in the form of increased agricultural costs. But the State also has other methods of impact, such as aid from the European Union for proposals in which a Member State, including Poland, has a certain sovereignty. The 2020 inventory will therefore assess whether state policy has been carried out in the past rationally, on the basis of a comparison of agricultural data from 2010 with those obtained in 2020. For example, it is worth examining how the average area of agricultural holdings has changed. We know well that in Poland family farms dominate and very well, but unfortunately also in many parts of Poland small farms dominate, for which it is difficult to find the right market perspective, which is difficult to give the right opportunity. It seems that the Act on Agricultural Land Trading has, unfortunately, caused adverse restrictions for those who would like to increase these farms, Polish farmers. It will certainly appear in the inventory that the process of expanding the average area of the farm in Poland has unfortunately been slowed down, and this is one of the elements of the impact on agricultural policy. But we will probably also be able to assess the size of agricultural production in Poland on the basis of the census. In terms of export, it looks good, even very good. Poland has a positive balance of food trade, it is a large exporter of food, also despite large imports. But you will need to assess the different industries: what their condition looks like, what it looked like 10 years ago and what it looks like today. It is worth noting that during this period there was a restriction on trade with Eastern Europe, mainly with the Russian Federation, which was extremely negative - it still continues - for Polish agriculture. Finally, the inventory will assess the competitiveness of individual sectors within Polish agriculture, i.e. which sectors become less forward-looking. It is worth paying attention to African swine fever, which in many farms has practically ended their activities. It is also worth considering in which areas of agriculture there are prospects that are worth supporting, because they will win competition and internal and external. Finally, it would be necessary to consider what is the position of the Polish farmer today in relation to the one that was 10 years ago. Is he a more durable, braver, stronger part of the market game today? Do agriculture and farmers themselves sometimes begin to lose to the great capital that is the recipient of their products? All of this is meant to allow a reliable agricultural census. I therefore think that it should not be feared to ask bold questions, such as the financial condition of farms: What is their debt status, what are their generational changes, whether there are successors on farms, and finally what is the world view of farmers themselves, whether they see a perspective for themselves, or whether they will end this production? All of this should give us an answer to questions that will also appear before the European Commission's new financial perspective. The funds will be directed to Poland. There is a danger that, unfortunately, in a lower amount than in the previous financial perspectives, but it is worth considering later the national aid scheme based on European funds, taking into account what the general agricultural census will tell us. Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will support this project because it will be part of building the future [[♪ The bell ♪]] good agricultural policy in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Five MPs signed up for the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. And please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, the Civic Platform - The Civic Coalition will be the first to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A common agricultural census is a very important issue. Statistical data on the structure of agriculture have a direct impact on human life in Poland. My question is: Will this list include organic farming, GMO cultivation, environmental protection against fertiliser toxicity, against agricultural machinery? I hope that they meet environmental standards in terms of environmental pollution, but if they do not, will this be included in this list? At the moment, we're having climate disturbances like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And environmental, which I think requires this inventory and analysis for the sake of...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u21	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u22	...a man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u24	High Seym! This is about the scope of the data that will be collected in the inventory. The question of the number of earth mounds must be tender. However, we have serious environmental, climatic challenges and in this inventory I do not find data that would answer questions about energy and water supply, vulnerability to drought, data on electricity generation in the Prosumer system, owning water for agricultural production, the range of raining, data on water retention, retention potential, data on the functioning of detailed meliorations, data on the use of farm buildings, e.g. in the context of the possibility of placing sources of photovoltaics or land permanently excluded from production, covered by forest succession. These are hundreds of thousands of acres right now. Will the agricultural census really answer the key question, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what is happening in the context of the challenges of the 21st century, in particular climate challenges? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the organisation of the agricultural census in 2020. The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that the census will be carried out within a period similar to the census dates in most countries of the European Union. I would therefore like to ask: Are the questions asked to farmers agreed with other European Union countries, or does each Member State individually determine the questions? It seems natural that if we carry out a census at the same time as the other countries of the European Union, then they will be the same questions to farmers from all the Member States of the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u27	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about funding, actually prizes. I'm just a little shocked like everywhere, right and left are given out prizes. Here's a simple job: we pick the right people who make this inventory, and they should just get the decent money for what they're supposed to do. I don't know what they can do more to get prizes. Run between these people or go to each other with a flower? This is ridiculous. I think paying prizes for what someone should normally do is spoiling people, spoiling jobs, unless it's such an idea that we're gonna give more to each other. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice. Mr Pierce, the pace.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the following question for the agricultural department: Shouldn't the data collected at the time of the agricultural census be extended to information on the processing activity carried out on the farm? While I am aware that data on the sale of agricultural products will also include data on processed products, I would urge that this be known with processed products in the overall value of sales. I think that would be important knowledge. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u31	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I will ask the President of the Central Statistical Office of Mr Dominic Rozkrut for an answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u32	Good morning. High Seym! I'd like to try to answer the questions one at a time. The first question concerned organic farming, organic farming, GMO crops, environmental poisoning. Most of these issues are covered by the general census questions. As far as GMO cultivation is concerned, they are, of course, banned in Poland, so we will not ask that exactly. So that to a large extent, as far as this question is concerned, which we answer to these needs, they are included there. Please see in the annexes to the Act that this scope is very specific. Of course, public statistics are not meant to value and evaluate certain phenomena. We provide some original material on the basis of which experts can carry out such assessments, but we will provide this material with what I can guarantee you here. As far as the second question is concerned, concerning information on energy supply, water supply and prosumer energy production, we obviously have a whole range of questions about infrastructure. These questions are quite detailed. They are more detailed in Poland than at European Union level. Here I am referring to the next question concerning the production of agricultural succession land. We have that question, too... [[Voice from the hall: Forest success.]] Forest success. Sorry, yeah. I looked the other way. Forest success. This is also the subject of our research. As regards the third question, it is so that these questions are indeed common to all the Member States of the European Union, but, of course, the extent to which common questions are covered is quite narrow. All countries at Union level are specifically limited to a narrow range of information. For national purposes, we ask additional questions, which are defined precisely in Annex 2 to the Act. Most often they are more specific questions than those arising from the Regulation. A great example here are the issues of infrastructure, the weapons of farms, which are particularly interesting, for example, from the perspective of the problems that you mentioned here. As far as the fourth question is concerned, the awards are indeed foreseen, but the award is of the nature that it may or may not be paid, and of course the intention was to pay these prizes to the municipal census commissioners. These are people who, at the level of the municipality, must be involved in addition to what is the subject of their employment relationship, i.e. engage also in the implementation of the census. Some such minimum wage was provided here in the form of a reward. That's why it's such a position. As far as the last question is concerned, the processing activity is not the subject of the census. In the census, we are primarily trying to build a precise operation on farm surveys, which we carry out in the inter-subscription period. On the basis of this operation, we will then draw a sample of households, which we examine for different circumstances. Among these other circumstances are activities such as processing activities, but it is not strictly included in the scope of the agricultural census. That's what we're studying in inter-story periods during representational studies. There is no need to enter with such detail up to the level of the agricultural census, as this would unnecessarily increase the cost of carrying out the census. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The rapporteur also wanted to answer the questions. You're welcome, sir. Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think the President has answered all the questions. I wanted to say that during the discussion it came to fruition that this law is extremely expected. She will determine the state of Polish agriculture in 2020 and earlier. Thank you very much to all the clubs for their substantive work in the committee, as well as thank the government and the President, as well as the CSO itself, for preparing this good bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u35	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the draft law amending the electoral code law (prints 3662 and 3683). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws at its meeting on 18 July 2019 examined the Parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law, print No 3662. The aim of the project is to make adjustments to the regulations on the compositions of the Supreme Court which recognise electoral law cases. The Commission accepted the amendments, inter alia. amendment in Article. 1 and Article 1 2 to harmonise the terminology proposed in the draft law and the terminology in force in the electoral code law and the national referendum law, and the amendment in Article. 4 because of the important interest of the State in reducing the period of vacathio legis from 14 days to the day following the date of publication. The High Sejm will announce the proposed bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u37	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Anna Milczanowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the electoral code is based on the identification of the competent chamber, which will recognise the protests concerning the elections to the Sejm and the protests concerning the validity of the presidential elections. This will be the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, not the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, which was liquidated by the Supreme Court Act of 8 December 2017. Another change is the identification of a specific chamber of the Supreme Court which will decide on the validity of the elections to the Sejm, the election of a Member and the elections to the Senate and to the European Parliament, as the current article. 244 of the electoral code does not specify the composition of the Supreme Court to which these cases are recognised. The Law and Justice Club supports the project and recommends that it be directed to further work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u39	Thank you, Member. The position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will be presented by Mr Tomasz Szymański. [[I'm going, Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u40	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice have led us to perfection - and have prepared us for it - two things: writing laws on our knees and instantly implementing them. Unfortunately, you've gotten used to this kind of governance, society, but also Parliament. Such a chaotic mode of lawmaking must have unexpected and undesirable consequences. You also had to show a total lack of professionalism and a lack of respect for the law. Today we are talking about the most important issues for a democratic state. What in the electoral code can be more important than who determines whether elections are important or not? There is nothing more important than the question of the validity of elections. The amendments proposed by the Law and Justice to the Act in all respects are non-constitutional in nature. At the very beginning, I would like to remind you of the changes in the judiciary that you have carried out, the form in which this is done. You did, and the way, the legality and the procedure for the selection of judges of the Extraordinary and Public Affairs Chamber of Supreme Courts. Everyone is alarmed about irregularities: experts, lawyers, the structure of the European Union, and you continue to go through the changes of the Supreme Court. The European Commission has maintained its doubts about the lack of rule of law in our country and has launched the so-called. The second level, which leads directly to sanctions, because European experts see that we have a problem with the rule of law and the actions of your government distance Poland from adopted European standards. The Court of Justice of the European Union may challenge the legality of the operation of the Chamber of Extraordinary and Public Affairs. Importantly, in May this year. seven judges of the Supreme Court raised the question to the Court of Justice as to whether this chamber is part of the European judiciary. The consequences of this judgment, calling into question the way in which the new Chamber was appointed and filled, raises serious concerns about the legality of its decisions. The judges of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, who are to rule on the validity of elections, shall be elected by the 25-member non-constitutional National Judicial Council. 15 members of the KRS are judges indicated by the Members of the PIS and Kukiz15. The remaining members are referred to by the Sejm and the Senate, as well as the Minister of Justice and the President. The House is therefore political. It can be politically dependent on the PiS and rule according to the interests and needs of the governing party. Once again, I would like to stress that we are debating a matter important for the functioning of democracy in Poland. Would you like to hand over the decision on the validity of the elections to those who have been made part of the Supreme Court in violation of the law? This is unacceptable in a normal democratic state. Another unacceptable, and above all non-constitutional, ladies and gentlemen, issue relating to the proposed bill is the attempt to make changes to the electoral order just before the elections. The Constitutional Tribunal made it clear that it pointed out the principle of the so-called. the alleged legislative silence, i.e. the principle of not making significant changes to electoral law during the six months preceding the first election operation, by which the election order for the Sejm, the Senate or the European Parliament should be understood. Ladies and gentlemen, we are already in this period - from 14 February this year. The President formally has time to announce the election deadline until August 14th, but in fact he can do so even today, and today you are making changes to the electoral code, the most important one. It's an amazing thing, it's an outrageous thing. The ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal is clear: no major changes should be made to electoral law. Why do you not respect the judgments of the Constitutional Court once again? We are talking about obvious matters: respect for law and state institutions. Another important amendment is the amendment tabled in the committee by the rapporteur Milczanowska concerning the shortening of the vacathio legis, a 14-day minimum period, which follows from the Law on the publication of normative acts, scheduled for the entry into force of the Act on the day following the date of publication. You can't just shorten your vacathio legis. There must be the conditions set out in the Act: when the important interests of the State so require, and this must not be contrary to the principles of the democratic rule of law. Tell the public, ladies and gentlemen, what are the conditions, but specifically. Are these conditions of important interest of the State or of important interest of the PiS? Or have any other principles of the democratic rule of law been violated? Ladies and gentlemen! I have long wondered whether it makes sense to make any amendments to this bill. It can't be improved, it has to be rejected. Therefore, your honored marshal, I move that the bill be rejected at second reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u41	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Jaskoła will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u42	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! By representing Kukiz,15 for the presentation presented in print No 3662, I find that this change is absolutely technical and precise. Therefore, without wasting time, of course the Kukiz15 will support this change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will be presented by Michał Kamiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u44	Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What happened that this Sejm, who does not sin by his diligence, which is rather a witness to the extinction of his activity during the last term of office, is suddenly called upon to debate the presentation of the validity of the elections before us? What happened that this Seym sitting, as it used to be said, in the former Poland, under Marshal Kuchciński's staff, although in today's Poland it would probably be worth saying: under the wing of Marshal Kuchciński, it is called to debate about a change in electoral ordination, an unconstitutional change, and also contrary to the custom that existed in Poland, according to which we should not bring up matters concerning electoral ordination just before the elections? You deny it, you want to give your people a decision that's after the electoral process in democracy the most important. Of course, the most important are the elections themselves, as far as I'm concerned, there is no dispute, although it was Joseph Stalin who said that no matter how people vote, it is who counts those votes. A very important element in addition to the voting act itself is the validity of the elections. You're the ones who want to give it to your people. And yet all the experience of what you say and how you behave makes you question your credibility. For, behold, you decide for yourselves, you decide which Communist is evil, and which Communist, when he sits in the Law and Justice, is good. You decide if gays are bad because you still scare Poland with some LGBT ideology, or if gays are good when you have to brag gay in your own government in Brussels, what the prime minister of your government did. We don't trust you, we don't trust you. also because the issue we are debating today is an echo of judicial reform, which is criticised both in Poland and in Europe. Today, it seems, you want to tamper with the electoral ordination because, contrary to your own propaganda, you're obviously not sure you're gonna win this election, and you're gonna want to open up some kind of gate. Well, today it is worth saying from this stand: No one can steal their vote from Poles. Poles can't steal who they want and how they want to vote. And that is why I firmly believe that there is still time for you to withdraw from this so that we can, like civilized countries, calmly approach the electoral process and respect every election outcome. Because we didn't question the election results. We respected them, and none of us ever said your choices were illegal. You win, we disagree, we argue with you, but we respect the choice of Poles. Every time you lose, you say the election is illegal, that the election was faked, and when you win, you talk about the sovereign. But I am firmly convinced that in a few months' time, the sovereign will speak and the verdict you will hear will not be the verdict that will please you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u45	Thank you, sir. I'm sure the sovereign will speak soon, too. Let's get to the questions. Seven parliamentarians signed up for the question. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15 You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u46	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My question is: Can electoral law be changed six months before the elections? This electoral code is good for basketball. It restricts electoral rights, although it gives voters a constitution. So there's a contradiction with the constitution. Art. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of The statement on the proportionality of elections hampers any reform of electoral law. Do you see that there are barrage clauses hidden here? There's an obligation here to collect 5,000. signatures. I'll also add that there's no possibility of an individual running for office. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The second question: Shouldn't it also be stated that those who went to elections under some banner and presented a program of some group and later betrayed these slogans and voters, following private, stool or mammon, should renounce their mandate and no longer have room for them in parliament? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u47	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitution on this matter is very clear. Art. 101 speaks of the validity of the election being decided by the Supreme Court. It's clear as day. But right now, you're making new laws, new rules. The validity of the elections is to be stated by the Chamber of Public Affairs, fully furnished by the neo-KRS, which consists of members who should not be there, from the party nominates of the PiS and Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u49	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u50	Ladies and gentlemen! All of Poland lives because Marshal Kuchciński abused flights, perhaps for private purposes, traveling with his family...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u51	Let's get to the point, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u52	...to Rzeszow. But this case is crucial. It's about the election. Elections are the heart of democracy. If there is a law that can disrupt this electoral process, and in fact the final part of this electoral process, which is to establish the validity of elections, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have to hit the alarm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current government changes the electoral code by 2.5 months before the elections, so that the validity of the elections is decided by the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, which PiS itself appoints. Your party nominees in the event of a negative election result for you will determine that the election is invalid. You'll be choosing each other soon enough. Poland, as a Member State of the European Union, must respect the rules of law. I wanted to ask you whether you are aware that this law is contrary to the Constitution, because according to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 July 2011, no amendments to the electoral code should be made within six months of the elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u54	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS in the field of legislation is famous for writing laws on the knee and instantly implementing them. It is unimaginable to manipulate the Election Order on the eve of the election. Why now? This is contrary to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. The arrogance of the rulers has made the validity of the elections politically dependent on the Supreme Court Chamber of PiS, which may rule in accordance with the interests of the governing party. What is the position of the State Election Commission on this subject? You can imagine that the bill is meant to be able to cancel the uncomfortable results of the elections, which is if you fail. Tell that to the Poles and Poles before the election, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that they're fully aware of who they're voting for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u56	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mark Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At present, the procedure for recognising the validity of elections is not controversial. You're proposing to change this system, destroy something that's been functioning for years. The problem is that what you are proposing is not only legally controversial changes, but also due to the timing of their introduction, because you are making a certain contribution at actually one of the last sessions of the Sejm of this term. I would just like to remind you that this period, which my previous speakers spoke about, this six-month silence in terms of changes in electoral law, is not just a theory resulting from the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, but in 2011 the Sejm repealed one of the laws and declared it incompatible with the Constitution precisely because of the violation of this six-month period. So this is a really big deal. I would also like to ask - since the matter concerns the judiciary - is there an opinion of the Supreme Court concerning this law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether there is an opinion of the KRS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u58	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill has no ordering character, let us not be manipulated. It is clearly intended to influence the outcome and process of making choices. Ladies and gentlemen! This action is very risky because, as you know, the Court of Justice of the European Union already deals with the judiciary and the rule of law in Poland. And the question is very important: What will happen to the validity of the various choices made, which will be supervised by the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs? This Court of Justice of the European Union will challenge the entry of this House into the judiciary and the justice system. What will happen to the announced and verified electoral results? Where is this important interest of yours, honourable Madam President, which you pointed out, on the grounds that the length of the vacathio legis must be changed, shortened from 14 to really 0 days? Please specify - of course, you have invoked this statutory condition - which is so important of the interest of the state, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you had to make this change now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u60	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u61	I'd like to ask you what's going on at the PiS family picnics and what's going on in the planes that you're passionate about every occasion with your families...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u62	Let's get to the point, sir. This doesn't apply to the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u63	...that you're bringing in this type of piece of legislation, which, to begin with, is one-third of the pages, and then it's extended in the committee, and it finally looks like something. But that's not the point. The point is that you want to show at the end of the Sejm's term that you are once again able to touch the constitution, that once again you are able to break it, that you are able to make changes that are clearly contrary to the constitution. Looks like somebody ran out of the title breaking the constitution that he had to bring in a project like this. Please be specific: Why? For what reason? What happens if we don't stay in this electoral code regime that is? Why do you want to violate such important matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u64	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question will be asked by Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The electoral code is not just a bill. This is the guarantee of maintaining democracy in every country. You, on the other hand, treat the electoral code scandalously by changing its records at a rapid pace and writing them on your knees. Let me remind you, January Ub. R., 300 autoproposals to the 18-Article Act. Today, on the other hand, at the most 14 days prior to the announcement of elections to parliament, because such a term has the President, you are making another change, a very important change, which concerns the validity or not of elections, is to appeal against their results. It can't be like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] mode is being worked on such an important law for Polish democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u66	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the rapporteur, Anna Milczanowska. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, Law and Justice takes the electoral code very seriously, and you know it. I would like to once again correct the many inconsistencies that have come out of the mouth of the PO-KO Members and other clubs. Mr Rometsky. Once again, I stress: This is a technical change, this is not a fundamental change. I said this in my speech, in my club statement, that we are pointing out the right chamber to recognize the electoral protests. So far this chamber has been the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs. It was amended by the Act of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court and introduced by the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. And it is this Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs that deals with possible electoral protests, which is assigned the same tasks as the Chamber of Insurance and Public Affairs. I would like to point out to Mrs Chmiel that not the Disciplinary Chamber... [[I was wrong.]] ...so that please... It's a pretty fundamental mistake. Ladies and gentlemen! The Constitutional Tribunal finds that technical amendments may not be made within six months before... We have explained this to you and referred to the relevant provisions, including at the Extraordinary Committee meeting. The Member is a member of this committee. Once again, I stress: This is a technical change in the name of the Chamber that works on the Supreme Court. And all members of this House of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs will look at any protests they may have made. The judges are twenty, the vast majority of these judges are people with a degree in science, from a master's degree to a doctor's degree, so let's trust them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u68	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm... [[Objection.]] ...the proposal accepted. [[Objection.]] There's an objection. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's proposal for an Investment Act on the construction of external ports (prints No 3605 and 3637). I ask Mr Szałabawka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u69	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's proposal for an Investment Act on External Port Construction, Print No. 3605 and 3637. The Marshal of the Sejm sent it on 10 July this year. the above project to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for first reading. The Commission was meeting on 17 July. carried out the first reading and examined this bill. The aim of the project is to introduce solutions that will simplify and speed up the work on preparing for the implementation of investments in the construction of external ports, which we need so much - I will tell you right away. This concerns the introduction of procedural facilitations to facilitate the smooth implementation of projects to expand the capacity of trans-shipment strategic ports from the State's interest point of view. The committee... Or maybe this is right now, because I would like to briefly present the benefits of the law, first of all it is the introduction of procedural facilitations that allow for efficient strategic implementation from the point of view of the interests of your projects to expand the port capacity, because they are increasing, so the potential is, here I can stay. The maritime economy in many countries is the basis for their prosperity, and the previous governments seem to have forgotten about it. For example, a huge terminal for containers was built in Rotterdam. It is located directly in the North Sea basin, otherwise it is an external port, i.e. a container terminal, where in 2016 12.4 million containers were reloaded, this is the scale. The terminal takes 86 ha and supports both unloading and loading containers directly from trucks. In the neighbouring Belgian port in Antwerp and its facilities occupy an area larger than the ports in Rotterdam, Hamburg and Amsterdam combined. What's the scale, ladies and gentlemen? It is the second largest European port, covering an area of 13 thousand. Ha and employs almost 150,000. people, providing Flanders 9% GDP. A little known fact is that... We have bananas in our stores, but hardly anyone knows those bananas that go to Europe reach the port of Antwerp first. A total of over 3 million tons of fruit are landed here each year. The introduction of these procedural facilitations will facilitate the construction of external ports as part of the expansion of ports of fundamental importance for the national economy, such as: Szczecin, Świnoujście, Gdynia and Gdańsk. This concerns the construction of the Central Port in Gdańsk, the External Port in Gdynia and the Deepwater Container Terminal in Świnoujście, for which the inhabitants of Western Pomerania have been waiting for years. The project is based on solutions adopted and used in other so-called solutions. Specialists. The project provides that, at the request of the investor, the voivode competent locally for the seat of the managing body of the port will decide to determine the location of the investment in the construction of the external port. Before submitting a request for a decision to determine the location of an investment in the construction of an external port, the investor shall request an opinion from the competent ministers and bodies. These opinions replace, according to the draft, the arrangements, permits, opinions, approvals or positions of the competent authorities required by separate provisions for the location of the investment, which will significantly speed up the planning of these investments. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Commission adopted an amendment of a legislative and editorial nature. The Commission adopted without objection a report on the draft law. On behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to accept the report in print No 3637. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u70	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on printing no. 3605, namely the Government's draft law on investments in the construction of external ports. The aim of the project submitted by the government is to introduce procedural facilitations for the efficient implementation of strategic projects for the interests of the State to expand the capacity of seaports. Investment in external ports is planned in seaports, i.e. resulting from the landing of urban areas. The provisions of the Act introduce procedural facilitations that will facilitate the construction of external ports as part of the expansion of ports of fundamental importance for the national economy, i.e. ports of Gdańsk, Gdynia and Szczecin and Świnoujście. This applies primarily to the construction of the Central Port in Gdansk, the External Port in Gdynia and the Deepwater Container Terminal in Świnoujście. The project is based on solutions adopted and used in other so-called solutions. Specialists. The proposed provisions provide that the decision to establish the location of investments in the construction of an external port is to be given by the voivode responsible locally for the seat of the port manager, as the rapporteur said. Before submitting a request for a decision to determine the location of an investment in the construction of an external port, the investor shall request the views of the competent ministries and bodies. Such opinions shall replace the arrangements, permits, opinions, approvals or positions of the competent authorities required by separate provisions for the location of the investment. The solutions adopted in the project will significantly facilitate and speed up the planned investments. The introduction of the provisions provided for in the draft law is crucial to ensure the conditions for the smooth preparation and implementation of investments in the construction of external ports, which are necessary to ensure further positive stimulation of the Polish national economy, especially in the field of handling growing imports and exports. At the same time, on behalf of the law and justice club, I propose an amendment to the draft law on investment in the construction of external ports. The amendment concerns the addition of a new wording to the article. 40 and Article 40 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 41 of the contested law and aims to ensure the legislative coherence of the amendments proposed in the normative acts already adopted by the Sejm, i.e. in the Act of 19 July 2019 on investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939 - Department of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk and the Act of 19 July 2019 amending the Act on the provision of environmental information, its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I kindly request that the High House adopt this draft law as proposed by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, taking into account the Parliamentary amendment tabled, which I am now transmitting to the Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u72	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will be presented by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u73	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Seaports are among the most important drivers of the Polish economy, and these strategic ports, i.e. a team of ports in Szczecin and Świnoujście, ports in Gdynia and Gdańsk are the gateway to world markets for producers not only Polish. Several figures show how important a role for the Polish economy is played by ports. One person employed in a seaport generates six jobs in its surroundings, while the employment of 33 people in the industry and transport sector translates into a total employment of 200 and 300 000. persons in the port environment. This is a lot and it shows how important strategic ports are for the Polish economy. Of course, the development of three key ports is important under this law and three investments are very important: the construction of the Central Port in Gdańsk, the construction of the External Port in Gdynia, as well as the construction of a deep-water container terminal in Świnoujście. You can say that the ports reach several hundred kilometers inland, from where or where the charges go. Therefore, the basic principle of port development should be the expansion of port access infrastructure, i.e. railway lines, high-speed roads, etc. In the meantime, it is interesting why, with the promised large support of these three investments, the Polish government supports the construction of the road. Via Carpatia, which provides access to the port of Klaipeda. It's very interesting. It is equally interesting why for such an important group of ports of Szczecin and Świnoujście there is no complete modernisation of railway line 273 within the C-E 59. It's the so-called. It's an apprehension. In 2016, the government of PiS deleted its comprehensive modernisation from official documents, stating that it is proposed to limit the scope of the project to the execution of works on the Wrocław - Głogów section and to adapt the value to the reduced scope of the project. This means that the comprehensive modernisation of such an important railway section for one of the strategic ports has only been replaced by an ad hoc improvement. That's not gonna change anything. The investments in question are extremely important and necessary, but I have the impression that it starts with effective visualization without a timetable and providing funding. It's a bit like the construction of the ferry and the keel in Szczecin, which has been rusting for almost 800 days. There's nothing going on out there, just a hula wind. If there is no timetable and funding is not provided, you can ask why this is happening. Is it just that the elections are coming? Of course, these investments are needed and everyone wants them to be implemented and support the development of the Polish economy, which will contribute to the creation of new jobs. They will have a significant impact not only on the local, national economy but also on the immediate environment. I have the impression that in the case of the investment to be carried out in Świnoujście, the public consultation was shamed, i.e. I have the impression that the position of the local government, the residents, was completely ignored, and what happened was just conversations for the principle that they were supposed to show the residents what they wanted to do. It cannot be that a government representative is coming and says: here we will do this to you and this, we will make such an investment on your territory. Where is the local government's opinion, listening to this voice? Where there is compensation for the implementation of other projects for which, for example, there has been implementation. The town of Świnoujście? These elements are lacking in this bill and they will appeal and ask the Minister how this will be achieved, how the needs arising from the proposals made by the city of Świnoujście will be met. In general, we are in favour of supporting those investments that serve the development of the port, and there are a few reservations about this, and I would like the Minister to give an answer on these issues, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I asked you about. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u74	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Kobylarz presented the position of the Kukiz Posel Club15 in writing. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, who will present the position of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u75	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is clear and undisputed that investment matters and issues need to be organised in such an important area as our country - and should be - the maritime economy, as well as ensuring the coherence of legislation to address these problems. This applies to our window to the world, i.e. ports. My speakers have already raised the most important issues and discussed the most important tasks. Our club will support the legislative work that goes in this direction. I think they'll end with finalization. Nevertheless, we must ask ourselves what happened, that we are in such a hurry, that within two weeks this project should pass through the Sejm and be adopted. It's an acceleration to the final part of the term of office. But okay, we'll figure it out. We hope that we will be pleased with this - above all, the inhabitants of these areas, hosts, local governments. I cannot ask you not to ask, and I ask you, Minister, if there is an opinion of the joint government committee and the local government on the project. It contains records to speed up the process of preparing the investment. I'm talking about securing the land for the planned investment. This applies to areas of the State Treasury as well as areas owned by local governments. This is another project, because similar projects, also with regard to infrastructure solutions, were several in which we lack something. We still miss treating these local governments like partners. We give solutions that are, as one of my previous speakers said, information. We don't consult, we don't talk. I know that from Warsaw you can see further - I was president of the Polish Districts Association, the office is on the 27th floor, from there you can see even further - but that does not mean that you can see better. Let us respect those whom the Sovereign has chosen, whom you refer to as these wojettes, mayors, elders, councillors. Then it will really be to the satisfaction of all of us, including these small local homelands. That is what we are talking about, we are in a hurry to prepare this law, but in the explanatory memorandum or in the draft I have not read a sentence about the time periods or the tasks we want to introduce, about how long it would be. Okay, these investments are needed, there's no doubt about it. [[Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: After all, everything was on the committee, Mr Mielewczyk.]] Madam President... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Projects were presented.]] Allow me to continue my statement. I think that, although estimated, the values of these tasks should also be presented. I do not require - and no one would require - that they be clarified and defined by date or year, but these values, these amounts must be included in the budgets for the coming years. Besides, well, the bill is supposed to sort it out, speed it up, so it gives the individual authorities the decision-making capacity that this will bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u76	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan will present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law on investment in the construction of external ports. The aim of the bill is to create such conditions in Poland that our domestic maritime transport is prepared for the upcoming market trends and current challenges facing this industry. In response to the challenges of its business competitors, Poland should invest in good infrastructure, including port infrastructure. Without it, and without external ports, growing imports and exports can be difficult today. Every year the number of transhipments in Polish ports is increasing, and in the coming years this increase is to be even greater. Unfortunately, Polish ports are currently not prepared for such dynamic development. We need to create external ports that could operate ever larger vessels. This law will strengthen Poland's position on the Baltic Sea and allow it to increase the transshipment capacity of Polish seaports and the development of this sector of the Polish economy, as well as strengthen the security of the country. The solutions proposed by the government in the draft will enable the construction of external ports as soon as possible by simplifying and speeding up procedures for the preparation of investments. Ports were and must continue to be windows to the world. Their expansion and modernisation in line with global trends will enable us to develop our economy in the right direction. As Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki emphasized in the exposé, we want Poland's subjective role in the economy, not in the outermost economy. This law is the fulfillment of this promise to the Government of the United Right. The investments provided for in this project will make us really exploit the potential of the Polish economy and open it to new opportunities. It should also be stressed that the revenues from port activities, customs, excise duties and taxes are an increasing profit for the state budget. This project will contribute to improving the quality of life of residents of areas close to strategic ports in Gdynia, Gdańsk or Świnoujście. It is important not only to create an external port itself, but also an appropriate port infrastructure and infrastructure related to land-side access to the port. ♪ In my hometown ♪ Gdynia is planned for: deep-water approach track, shielding waves, turntables, port pools and transhipment quays. As regards investments in land-side access to the port, an investment in road and rail access to the terminal is planned. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the procedated project. We believe that the investment in external ports is as legitimate as possible and will only benefit Poland and its inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u78	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I close the list of Members wishing to subscribe to the question. I set the time - 1 minute to ask the question. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice will be the first question to be asked. Mr. President, now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking here about the expansion of port capacity for seaports. This is one of the elements of the whole package of actions of the Government of Law and Justice aimed at obtaining more participation by Poland in world trade and improving its strategic flows. I would therefore like to ask how the cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and the coordination of port expansion activities with the rail and road network are progressing. In particular, I am interested in coordinating investments related to ports with investments aimed at improving the coastal transport routes, including cross-border ones, implemented in the regional cooperation of the Tri-marine initiative? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u80	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The revised bill is intended to respond to developing seaports. In the explanatory memorandum of this bill you wrote that transhipment in the port of the sea in Gdańsk increased by more than 20% since 2017. I wanted to ask why, at the end of your term, you are preparing solutions for expansion, among others. The port of Gdansk? Why didn't the government do it two years ago? The maritime economy is certainly not the strong side of the current government. Nauta's falling shipyard is the best example. What action has the resort taken to save Nauta's shipyard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u82	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The construction of the Central Port in Gdansk or the External Port in Gdynia is correct. This is undoubtedly the largest investment in years, the cost of which can reach up to PLN 12 billion in the case of the Central Port itself in Gdańsk. Due to its large size, experts pay attention to the economic account of this investment, which requires further analysis, especially in the topic of so-called. cannibalization of the market where terminal operators will fight each other for each container. Are there real assessments, any expertise on the impact of the new terminals in Gdansk on the increase of activity in the rest of Gdansk port and Gdynia port? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u84	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that the development of seaports is important, and private entrepreneurs have actually been increasing the value of transhipments in these ports for years. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs, on the other hand, did not prepare this project until the end of the term of office, because the project was introduced at the beginning of July and is adopted at one of the last meetings of the Sejm, which must give rise to some doubts as to whether it is simply a more electoral project than it really is a preparation for specific investments. On the other hand, what raises my doubts, if the Minister can answer me, please, is the 14-day vacathio legis adopted in this act. This is the minimum vacathio legis provided for in the Act, provided for in Polish regulations. On the other hand, this law will also apply to procedures that are being initiated. And often this new law will include those procedures, which already at this point in time [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're rolling. Therefore, I would like to ask whether there is a risk that this will cause unnecessary chaos and whether it is not worth simply prolonging this vacathio legis in the case of these investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u86	Thank you, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u87	Dear Marshal! Minister! It's a bad thing that this specialty is completely missing the local community. In the case of Świnoujście, the city has repeatedly reported the needs which are necessary for the implementation of this investment, it is the needs of residents. E.g. It was said that, in the context of the beach in Warsaw, investments should be made that will serve and meet the needs of people using it. There will be a parking lot and appropriate access. These were requirements and even requests of the local government in the implementation of this investment. Because expansion issues will not be without any impact on the local community. It is extremely important to give the local community the feeling that someone is not coming and says in advance what will happen in a given local government, a given city - without any conversation. So my question is, Minister: How does the government address these needs reported by the Świnoujście government and whether [[♪ The bell ♪]] does he intend to make these investments happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u88	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Szałabawka, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Listening to the rapporteur, Mr Po-ko, I was even speechless. [[You're the rapporteur.]] Because how much bad will it takes, how much it takes - really, I don't know - to have such bile in relation to the West Pomeranian province, so that we don't see what's going on. Because you were talking about the lack of rail access to the port... That's the question I have for the Minister: [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: What have you done?]] What rail investments took place in the Szczecin and Świnoujście port complex during the years of the Civic Platform and PSL government? How can you pretend... Yesterday, an agreement was signed for PLN 1.5 billion, it is an investment that is to be closed in 33 months, and the rapporteur says that nothing is happening. I'm already skipping the question of deepening the track or road investments that weren't there at all, but that's the way to talk about the railroad... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u90	Thank you, sir. The last question will be asked by Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u91	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Is it true that at the meetings of the Maritime Affairs Committee - I regret to say that my colleague did not hear it, maybe it was not - all the projects concerning external ports and all the investments in ports, which were carried out in those four years, which was not during the time of the PO-PSL government, were presented in detail? Did we react by introducing provisions in the bill... This was necessary because local authorities did not apply for European funds to build access roads to ports, and therefore the Ports Act introduced the provision in order to allow for example. build so-called. Red road. And why did we have a problem and the previous coalition didn't react when local governments built entire quay apartments that took the surface where the ports could develop? This is the case, among other things. Gdynia. Why do you not go to the port of Gdynia or Gdansk for a summary of the big investments and the implementation of transhipments every six months? It's been like this lately. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Because they're ruling us out.]] [[Because no one invites us.]] So do not ask such questions later, for you bear witness to yourselves that you have done nothing. You didn't do anything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u92	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. [[Excuse me, I'd like to correct. Corrigendum.]] For questions... I think it's a little late now, Member. [[Just a little bit.]] Good. In corrigendum mode. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: I do not know what, because no one referred to you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u93	Thank you very much. Ma'am! I address Mrs Arcisewska-Mielewczyk. Don't tell anyone he doesn't go to any meetings when he's not invited.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u94	But don't abuse the correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u95	We weren't invited to these meetings, so don't say that, okay? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u96	Madam, I take your vote. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Can I correct it?]] No, no, no. List of Members to vote... [[Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: I want to correct, because it is not true what you say. One sentence.]] But, Commissioner, I really...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u97	One sentence. If you are an envoy from the Tricity and want to know what's going on, you have to follow Facebook and what's going on in the ports. No one has to invite me to go out of curiosity and listen to very good summaries of what is happening, achievements in the port of Gdansk, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u98	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The questions will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Minister Marek G grubarczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think there should be no political dispute about the implementation of this investment. Although you have stated here that only one port should be developed, I think you will ultimately support this law, which is extremely important for the economy, as you said in your speech. [[We'll back you up.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, most of the questions concern technical solutions for the implementation of this investment. This investment, this law above all, as has already been said, accelerates the whole process of obtaining an investment permit. Of course, the bill was only prepared now due to a trial that began four years ago. This process mainly concerned projects or the concept of the implementation of the whole process concerning technical and economic assumptions for such investments. This investment in individual ports is mainly charged with the need to obtain environmental permits, which, as you know, is the most labour-intensive and takes the greatest amount of time, because the environmental impact report is prepared for an average of 1.5 years - 2 years. These projects have also been developed on the basis of professional solutions, feasibility studies and are the basis for opening negotiations on the acquisition of operators, as ports are currently not being built by the government, the government is only providing opportunities for these investments, while the investment is carried out by the operators themselves. Today, port managements are obliged to start or continue negotiations on the acquisition of operators, i.e. already private operators - in principle it is irrelevant what the legal formula is - to carry out transhipments in individual ports. The Ports and Piers Act excludes operational activities in the operation of ports. This also, in a sense, relates to the issue of maritime affairs. It will allow Mrs Chmiel that I will not refer to the substance or the need for the functioning of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, which has been liquidated by the State. As regards shipbuilding issues which are probably already well-known, you have introduced a compensatory act to eliminate this most important shipbuilding - manufacturing industry. In view of the above, our efforts, efforts and measures to rebuild this industry are primarily aimed at restoring production capacity. However, this must be done in accordance with EU law, i.e. in the absence of judgements of unlawful public aid. As regards environmental arrangements, I also have a huge request to Mr Marchewka not to use this argument as part of the creation of unnecessary conflict, because during the construction of the gasport implemented by you, by your boards, all the agreements with local governments were broken, so there was a political formation that raised these issues and used electorally just actions against the construction of a deep water terminal in Świnoujście. We are at the stage of negotiations with individual local governments, mainly with the Świnoujski government. We also invite the local community to these negotiations, which is very keen on tourism development. We assume already in the design phase that the operator will meet all the requirements that will, of course, be agreed with the local community before, so as not to repeat what you have done in the case of the still unfinished construction of the gas-port at that time. I hope that this implementation will result in development, that it will bring positive results in terms of tourism and economic development. A few days ago, not only, because a few weeks ago, by decision of the Minister of Infrastructure, by deciding the tender for rail access, agreements were signed for access to ports in Gdańsk and Gdynia as well as in Szczecin and Świnoujście. In total, this is close to PLN 3.5 billion. As far as Szczecin - Świnoujście is concerned, it is PLN 1.5 billion - 1 billion to be directed to the port in Szczecin, 0.5 billion to the port in Świnoujście. Why now? Mr President, you should have done this earlier, [[Applause]] as part of the preparation, above all, of C59, i.e. Nadrzanki, and it could not be started in terms of implementation, because there were simply no projects. I would remind you that the preparation of the project is about 4 years in terms of obtaining a report on environmental impact and meeting all necessary legal requirements. Therefore, this law is primarily aimed at speeding up these formal legal elements so that today's symbolic 5 minutes can be used to increase transhipments in ports. This year we already know that the record should be beaten again: the port in Gdansk has a growth rate of 9% , Gdynia - 5% ,Szczecin - Świnoujście - 2%. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u101	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Kukiz'15, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for an investment law on external ports, prints no. 3605 and 3637. The aim of this project is to introduce solutions into the legal system that will simplify and speed up the preparation of investments in external ports. This law is particularly important for the construction of the Central Port in Gdańsk, the External Port in Gdynia and the deep-water container terminal in Świnoujście. The introduction of new rules will facilitate the procedure for the construction of external ports and thus facilitate the implementation of investments. In 2018, transhipments in Polish ports exceeded 100 million tons. In the port of Gdańsk alone more than 49 million tons were reloaded, which represents an increase of 20.7%. for 2017 Further prospects forecast further increases in transhipments, so every effort should be made to increase the transshipment capacity of Polish seaports. Ports are of great importance for the entire socio-economic system of Poland in terms of the amount of budgetary duties due to customs duties, taxes and excise duties. According to the National Tax Administration, this was about PLN 40.6 billion for 2018. In 2011 it was about PLN 10 billion. This shows a very high rate of debt growth. In order to ensure a further dynamic increase in charges, it is necessary to continuously increase freight traffic in seaports, including through the construction of modern deep-sea port infrastructure. Each of us realizes how burdensome the formal legal process is. The preparation of investments in the construction of external ports requires a number of administrative procedures, which may, as a result, take up to several months to complete. The contested law provides for a number of simplifications on these issues, such as: - the introduction into the legal system of the competent voivodship of the decision to establish the location of investments in the construction of an external port, which will be a holistic instrument regulating the location of the investment and its individual parts, thereby minimising the number of proceedings and the time needed to issue the administrative acts necessary for the execution of the investment; - simplify the procedure for obtaining decisions prior to the decision to establish the location of investments in the construction of an external port; - speed up administrative procedures by specifying the time for the administrative authorities to issue individual decisions; - the introduction of rules allowing the investor to effectively obtain the right to property necessary for the execution of the investment, while ensuring adequate compensation for expropriation or compensation for the limitation of property rights; - enable the investor to enter the property for the purposes of carrying out the measurements, studies or other work necessary to draw up an information sheet of the undertaking or a report on the environmental impact of the project referred to in the Act of 3 October 2008 on the making available of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments, or to carry out the work necessary for the preparation of the request for other decisions required for the implementation of the investment; - exclusion of the application of the provisions on planning and spatial planning, the provisions of the Law of 9 October 2015 on revitalisation and the provisions of the Law of 3 February 1995 on the conservation of agricultural and forestry land in the case of preparation of investments in the construction of an external port. To sum up, we believe that this law is essential for faster implementation of key investments in maritime affairs. A fundamental shortening of the path to obtaining the necessary permits will contribute to an efficient public spending. The Kukiz Poselski Club15 supports this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u102	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce regulatory burdens (prints 3622 and 3701). I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Report from the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation on the Government Draft Law amending certain laws to reduce regulatory burdens on printing No 3622. I would like to remind you that the Sejm at its 84th meeting on 19 July 2019 sent the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation for consideration. The Commission dealt with this project on 29 July in the presence of numerous representatives of the social side. After discussing the various articles, after listening to comments, some of which will undoubtedly still be reflected in the proposed amendments, taking into account the legislative amendments, after taking into account the nine amendments tabled during the committee's work, the committee shall submit this proposal in order to be adopted by the High House. I am very pleased that this is another project worked out by the deregulation committee - after the business constitution, after the laws in the package of 100 amendments to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs, Prime Minister Morawiecki, after such decisions as the law on succession. The next project, which is being discussed today, amends more than 60 laws in order to adapt them, to ensure a better functioning of the economic space, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. There are solutions here such as the right to error, some novelty in Polish legislation, legal decisions concerning the silent settlement of a simplified procedure or the silent termination of proceedings, I think also interesting solutions. Undoubtedly, a number of solutions concerning the removal of unnecessary information obligations, clarification of ambiguous rules, some additions to the law of succession that arise from experience since the introduction of the law, the saving of unnecessary reporting, the application of simplified procedures, as regards, for example, the law relating to public roads, maritime areas, Water law. I think that these are indeed very friendly solutions, very expected by entrepreneurs. I ask the High House to pass this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u104	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Piotr Uściński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u105	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a positive opinion and to request the High House to adopt a bill amending certain laws in order to reduce regulatory burdens. As the title itself says, it is a deregulation law, it is a law which will reduce administrative burdens, bureaucratic burdens, and reduce various burdens for entrepreneurs, but not only. It has a deregulation character and improves the law, because some regulations do not have to be deregulated so much and rid of the Polish legal system as to improve them. In total, it is a law in which there is a package of more than 50 specific point changes to a number of economic laws. The rapporteur has already mentioned this, and I will mention some interesting changes, such as: the right to error without an administrative penalty. In the first year of business, if such a mistake happens, of course it will have to be fixed, but the entrepreneur will not be punished. So it's a yellow card that an entrepreneur can get. The second interesting change, which was accompanied by a lively discussion at the Deregulation Committee meeting, is that it is necessary to allow consumers to benefit from consumer protection for businesses who are natural persons in so far as they are not specialists, for example. If someone buys a tea kettle, but is not a tea seller, does not make this tea professionally, or buys a printer for the company, but it is not a printer, the printer is used to print some documents inside the company; consumer law will apply to such purchases. I would like to thank the government, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, as well as the deregulation committee and the President for their smooth work on the bill. We listened to discussions in committee and the Law and Justice Club prepared some amendments, which included. result from this discussion and meet the expectations of the social side, which expressed these expectations in the committee. We also have one amendment, which I will present here, which aims to extend the period of submission of statements by final consumers of electricity, which under the Act amending the excise duty law is entitled to the price and the rate of electricity charges applied by the company on 30 June. The deadline for submitting these statements was a few days ago, and it turns out that only about 50% The right holders made these statements, so we want to extend this deadline by the way of this law. Dear Marshal! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I submit these amendments and a request to join the third reading of the bill without referring to the committee the amendments and proposals submitted to this draft law, after the service of their Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u106	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition will be presented by Mrs Joann Frydrych. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u107	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the report of the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce regulatory burdens. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill provides for amendments to 74 laws. The aim of the Act is to reduce regulatory burdens, in particular administrative burdens. The deregulation committee on this law was originally convened on 22 August, then cancelled and convened at an express rate of 3 days in advance. The deregulation committee worked 3 hours on the bill. My questions: Can you prepare in 3 days to proceed with a bill that amends 74 laws? Can a law amending 74 laws be properly and properly discussed in 3 hours? The bill is too important to be proceded in such scandalous mode. Can we be sure that the bill does not contain errors? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to the outrageous procedure of the procedure, the pace preventing the law from going deeper and carefully analysing it and the fear that there may be errors in the bill, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Platform Club will refrain from voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u108	Thank you, Member. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue our speeches on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the club Polskie Strontwo Ludowe - Coalition Poland will present Mr Jan Łopata. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u109	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland I would like to take the floor and present our position towards the government draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce regulatory burdens, print no. 3622. Your Honor! Sorry, not yet, court. High Seym! I was hoping, I thought there were areas, areas of social life - such as the economy - where the work on legal regulations in these areas will take place, as is sometimes said, with due care. I was wrong, unfortunately, that's not what's happening. The legislative process concerning this area, this legislative proposal, does not deviate from the standards of the ruling party, Law and Justice, which have been founded in this term of office of the Sejm. The project presented in print no. 3622 is very extensive, with 536 pages in print. It makes novels in it, among others. Civil Code, Civil Procedure Code, Labour Code, and for this reason at least we should, in accordance with the article. 87 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, proceed over it in a mode appropriate to the codes. Another issue concerns the pace of work, as was mentioned just now. You will say that he has been consulted with the interested parties and that there has been a discussion on the committee. That is true, but I will remind you of this thread of my assessment when we discuss the Senate amendments, and I am deeply convinced that there will be a lot of them. The changes concern more than 66 laws, as I have calculated, from the legal environment of entrepreneurs and are - as businessmen notice - and lawyers - rather random, in no way can they be called systemic. Maybe I'll give you a few examples to visualize. The proposed amendments concern: the abolition of certain information obligations, the harmonisation of deadlines for the submission of information to different institutions, the obligation to draw up action plans in situations of specific threats to the smallest groups, e.g. postal operators as well as other legal barriers, e.g. a short time limit for the settlement of VAT in import, the possibility of decision-making paralysis in a commercial company or the possibility of not acting over a period of several months in the event of the death of a partner, e.g. where the majority shareholder is at the same time the sole member of the company's board of directors, the problems that arise in the succession process, although the company as an economic entity does not cease to exist, including the need to obtain new permits, concessions or licences, even when the company has been taken over. From the examples presented, it appears that this upper-floor definition of the purpose of the law to extend the freedom of economic activity is somewhat inadequate, but nevertheless the solutions presented merit my support, in my opinion. The difficulty is also that the proposals contained in the project are not substantively linked. The project includes provisions of a material, procedural, as well as of a system, concerning not only the rules of economic activity, but also e.g. tax obligations or pillars of civil law. High Seym! Despite these very serious reservations, we will support these solutions, all the more so because, as we have heard, one of the amendments concerns the amendment of the Act on the fixing of energy prices, which was, after all, proceded and for which there should be no doubts, reservations, and yet it will have to be changed as a matter of urgency. 50% Entrepreneurs have not done anything that is illogical to me at all, but the bill has been written down. For these reasons, we will support the proposed solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u110	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I don't see any calls. So I'm closing the list. I invite Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice, to ask the first question. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u111	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Reducing excessive regulation and reducing the number of burdensome, costly responsibilities is not only a good step but also a necessary and expected step. I would like to ask whether the reviews and analyses underlying this submission have also taken into account the activities of institutions such as: Transport Technical Supervision, Technical Surveillance Office and many, many others. Why am I asking this? The countless responsibilities incumbent on entrepreneurs stem directly from the interpretation of the law by those who run such institutions and, unfortunately, still often interpret them extensively, thus forcing them to bear higher costs than the legislator assumed. I am already overlooking the incompetence of these officials or even the situations that may result in corruption. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u112	Thank you very much. And another question. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on which we are proceeding provides for a reduction in the regulatory burden of an administrative nature. I would like to ask you to answer the question of how a normal Polish citizen will feel the fact of adopting this law. In many cases, the proposed rules will not result in decisive simplification of procedures. Since the beginning of this term, the Sejm has adopted the largest number of laws in history. The rules are getting less and less clear. You can't change that with this one bill. All you have to do is withdraw from the many unnecessary laws you've adopted in the last four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u114	Thank you. Mr Marcin Ociepa, Minister of State at the Ministry of Enterprise and Technology, will reply. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u115	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all the questions and for the long and comprehensive discussion during the work of the deregulation committee. I also thank Mr Murdzko for his work. Indeed, those who wanted to bend over this law had enough to appear at the committee meeting and for more than 3 hours a point after point to talk about concrete solutions during the discussion of this law. Those who have done so certainly have no doubt about the need for this bill. It has been said that the law does not solve the problems in a system, it is not a system change. Well, this is a classic example of a law that cross-examines various types of legislation. Ministers had previously done a huge job in their resorts - and we are constantly doing so - to search for regulations that restrict business activity in Poland. This is a glorious work and I want to thank all the ministers for making this effort. What else could we do as a government administration to make these constraints, these burdens for entrepreneurs as little as possible? This bill is another law, I remind you, a law in which it is dealt with cross-cuttingly. After all, the whole package of business constitutions, 100 changes for companies, the SME package and this fourth puzzle we are discussing today are examples of just such a cross-cutting approach. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the work of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology: every day we meet with entrepreneurs, every day we accept their proposals, which we are trying to shape into a legal act to remove the barriers to which they draw attention. There is nothing wrong with the fact that there are so many changes and they concern so many areas of life, because so many areas of life concern entrepreneurship and economic activity of our citizens. I certainly agree with the question whether Mr Pyzik's suggestion that legal change is one thing and the big change that we all have to go through is mental change. We're talking about administration and businessmen. I constantly attach great importance to this, and I attach great importance to the fact that regulations not only enter into force, but also to the blood of the administration that executes them, so that the entrepreneur can meet not only with a friendly recipe, but also with a friendly official, whether we are talking about government administration or local government. This work must continue to be done in order to change the approach to business relations - the public administration - in order to change the approach to the role played by entrepreneurs in our country. I am talking about trying to start thinking about entrepreneurs as those who are of fundamental importance when it comes to creating our prosperity, development, the prosperity of our economy. It wasn't always like this. You could say that there are truisms, but ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that this has not always been the case. The case law was not always satisfactory for entrepreneurs, not always with such an approach in one or the other office. I think it is very important that, for at least two years, entrepreneurs are sure that the law is on their side, that even if they meet an unfriendly official, they already have friendly rules that if they appeal to the court, the courts have reason to believe that they are right in this dispute with the public administration. There are many changes that have already been discussed in this House. This next bill that we are putting forward today is, as it were, a continuation of this very thought. To the end, if your marshal will allow me, High Izbo, I would strongly disagree with the fact that we are dealing with the generation of new, unnecessary regulations. The fact that these regulations are needed is advocated by the entrepreneurs themselves, I already said a few sentences ago. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that only this year, when it comes to the law created, proposed by the Polish government and adopted by the Polish Parliament, is it 50% less. When it comes to the relationship between the rights created and... We now have the same indicator as in 2008. We pay so much attention to reducing excessive legislation so that these rules are as little as possible, that we have already reached the 2008 ceiling, so we have stopped, we have stopped this increase in law, this legal fever. Rather, we are dealing with initiatives. You can see it with a lot of laws. It's just that these laws are losing weight, these laws are less, and that's what makes them, we believe it deeply, more readable to entrepreneurs and citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u116	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Amendments and requests not to send the bill to the committee were tabled in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax (prints No 3580 and No 3688). Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u117	Thank you, Marshal. On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act 3580 and 3688. The first reading of the draft law took place at the 84th meeting of the Sejm on 17 July this year. The project was then addressed to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Public Finances for consideration, with a recommendation to submit a report by 29 August. The draft law aims to implement European Union law. It concerns the implementation of the position of the European Commission presented during the procedure for notification of the aid measure to ship owners. The aid measure consists in exempting from income tax the income of seafarers obtained from working on ships of Polish nationality, carried out jointly for a period of at least 183 days in the tax year, in international shipping on ships used for the carriage of cargo or passengers. Committees meeting on 19 July They've examined this bill. Amendments of a legislative and editorial nature were tabled during its work. Without opposition, the Commission adopted a report on the draft law. I ask the High House to accept the report of the committee in print No 3688.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u118	Thank you, Member. Stay on the stand, or you'll be acting on behalf of the club. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk will speak on behalf of the club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act. The project was prepared by the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Tripartite Team for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, in which I have the honour to participate. The project has the full support of the social side, meets the expectations of both the workers' side and the employers' parties, teams represented by the Polish Shipowners' Union. The aim of the project is to amend the Act of 26 July 1991 on income tax on natural persons consisting in exempting from income tax the income of seafarers obtained from working on ships in international shipping, and consequently to encourage shipowners to flag their ships, which guarantee tax exemptions for seafarers under the Polish flag, as well as improving the competitiveness of Polish seafarers on the international maritime market, the labour market. This change is fully in line with European law. It aims to implement in Poland Community guidelines on State aid to maritime transport in 2004, in which the European Commission recommends the application of aid measures in the field of labour costs and taxes for ship owners in international shipping. The proposed law will consequently allow Poland to join the majority of the Member States of the European Union applying the guidelines. The design shall also indicate a period equivalent to the period of stay at sea during which a seafarer may not be present on board by his own fault, e.g. the duration of the trip to and from the ship, or the time spent on compulsory training required to maintain or improve professional qualifications and required by international law. At the same time, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I submit three amendments as a result of the work of the Sejm committees. Amendment 1 brings the definition of the ship owner originally intended to be included in the PIT Act in the vocabulary into the material provisions concerning the proposed tax exemption. This is due to the need to ensure consistency of the proposed solutions with other provisions of the PIT Act, which are otherwise used by the company's concept. A technical and legislative amendment will also be made to remove lithium. f in point 48, i.e. an additional definition of international shipping. Amendment 2 follows the request made during the work of the committee by a social party and allows for the inclusion in the working period calculated for the exemption of the tax period of compensatory leave granted to a seafarer in accordance with the Maritime Labour Act. Amendment 3 clarifies the issue of the entry into force of the tax exemption and allows for the simultaneous entry into force of the proposed definitions and material provisions concerning the exemption. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I kindly request that the High House adopt this draft together with the amendments which I will now hand over to the Marshal on behalf of the Club Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u120	Thank you very much. And I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń, who will present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u121	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This project is in fact an adaptation of the law adopted by the Sejm on 5 August 2015. The proposal - I remember - came from government benches of the Civic Platform and PSL. And this solution proposed 4 years ago was to exempt from income tax the income of seafarers obtained from working on ships of Polish nationality, carried out jointly for a period of at least 183 days in the tax year, in international shipping on ships used for the carriage of cargo or passengers. This solution was intended to counteract the adverse phenomenon that was also then, but it is also today, the re-registration of ships from our national register into the registers of countries that conduct an active tax policy on tax exemptions for shipowners and seafarers, so-called. Cheap flags. By the way, the European Commission has recommended, if I remember correctly, that aid measures be applied to ship owners since 2004. And today, we have an uproar of the notification process. The European Commission considers that this provision proposed in the 2015 solution needs to be extended to maritime vessels of the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area in order to prevent discrimination against those States, European Union countries and this area. This solution is also applied in other Member States. It took you four years to get a notification. Too bad it took so long. And again, you'll probably be blaming your predecessors in a moment rather than simply hitting the boobs in the world. Four years, it's been four years. Four years and I hope not one year more of your failed governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u122	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski. But I don't see your MP. Then Mr Andrzej Kobylarz. I can't see either. Therefore, we move to the Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland, as I presented this opinion at first reading, is in favour of continuing the work. As for some of the comments that we had and which I also stressed in the previous speech, I think we discussed them. They're also being pointed out today. Nevertheless, we are in favour of continuing the legislative process and we will be in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u124	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question at this point? I see that Mrs Małgorzata Płępek is on her way, so we are finishing the list that I am closing on her. You are beginning Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law is intended to implement European Union law on taxation of seafarers working on ships flying the flag of a Member State of the European Union. In view of the above, I would like to ask how the contested bill will affect the transfer of the flag by shipowners to other countries where there is lower taxation. Transfer of ships under the so-called The cheap flag is clearly detrimental to the budget of the Member States of the European Union. Whether the government is working on other solutions to reduce flag transfer to so-called. tax havens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u126	Thank you. The second question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the bill under review, I have a few doubts. The biggest doubts concern the omission of the issue of tax residence - this provision will not be used by a Polish tax resident who does not have a nationality of a European Union State - and the omission of work in international transport, which makes it impossible for Polish seafarers to benefit from the exemption from PIT under the rules. The next issue - the regulation for 183 days is too detailed, which creates numerous interpretation risks for seafarers working in different modules. So what is the idea of governing [[♪ The bell ♪]] Eliminate these doubts? Because for now, it's an underprecise law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u128	Thank you very much. This and the earlier question will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Marek G grubarczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PIT Act for Seafarers is the second step that has been implemented in the field of return of ships under the Polish flag. The Law and Justice Government has set itself the goal of bringing ships flying under cheap flags or other flags back under the white and red flag, of course, within the meaning of the Polish tax system. This is therefore a second step, extremely important, so that these ships can return. We have another, last, most important, i.e. the Act on Employment on Maritime Commercial Ships, which primarily regulates the issue of social contributions. It is currently in the preparation and request of the President that he be the owner of this law, it seems to give a great opportunity to carry out, to renegotiate it, so as to effectively implement this process. As regards the question, on the one hand, that we regulate 183 days and, on the other hand, that it is a non-regulatory law, I think that it was not appropriate or in itself contains an answer. On the other hand, the most important thing is that under EU law, because such requirements must be followed, this law can enter into Polish law. Our predecessors, Civic Platform and PSL, have prepared a law that only applies to the Polish flag. This has been challenged by the European Commission. Therefore, there was the time which we used in particular to negotiate with the European Commission, notify this law and extend it to all flags of the EU countries. It seems that this law is extremely important for Polish sailors - it finally regulates the issue of paying taxes, concerns a very wide group of sailors and is the second step I was talking about, to the return of ships to the Polish flag. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u130	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u131	Minister! The proposed submission, as well as the Community guidelines on State aid to maritime transport, address the level playing field for ship owners and seafarers in the intra-Community maritime sector. I have the following question: Is the government planning, apart from this aid measure, additional solutions to encourage shipowners and seafarers to move their ships to the Polish register and legal system? I am talking about creating conditions that would allow competition not only in the intra-Community market but also with entities outside the European Economic Area.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u132	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft Law on the Financial Support of Inland Shipowners, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund (prints No 3666 and 3693). Mr Jerzy Materna will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law on the financial support of inland vessels, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund, prints No 3666 and 3693. The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation at its meeting on 24 July 2019 examined the draft law. The Commission accepted minor amendments tabled by the Legislative Office, which were of a more precise, orderly and editorial nature. The entire bill was passed by the committee without a vote of objection. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law aims to enable the development and modernisation of the inland waterway fleet by improving the system of financial support for inland waterway vessels and their adaptation to the current needs of shipowners. The current law on the Inland Navigation Fund, which was established in 2002, currently does not provide adequate support to shipowners and therefore needs to be replaced by a new law. The IWT industry has been calling for amendments and the adoption of a new law. The current Fund for Inland Navigation was established in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego under the Act on the Fund for Inland Navigation and the Reserve Fund. Only loans with preferential interest are granted from the Inland Navigation Fund for the purchase, modernisation and renovation of inland waterway vessels. The funds of the Fund come mainly from annual grants from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and contributions from inland shipowners. At present, preferential loans are the only form of financial support for inland shipowners. The modernisation and replacement of the inland waterway fleet is particularly important as the fleet of shipowners is constantly ageing and its continued exploitation is made possible through ongoing modernisation. At the same time, the use of the Fund is at a very low level which is not adapted to the current needs of the inland waterway fleet. Therefore, the draft law establishes, taking into account the needs of shipowners, an increase in the efficiency of the use of the Fund for Inland Shipowners in order to ensure the implementation of the demands of this environment. It is worth adding that the proposed law provides financial support for shipowners taking into account the environmental objectives set and having a positive impact on the transport sector's ecology. Basic changes - benefits - resulting from the draft law are the following. The proposed law extends the catalogue of forms of financial support for shipowners, which is to include: loans with preferential interest rates for the purchase, modernisation and renovation of inland waterway vessels; redemption of part of preferential credits granted according to the age of inland waterway vessels; refinancing of the purchase of marine equipment components in order to adapt vessels to the applicable safety requirements. In addition, the draft law on the support of inland shipowners provides for the withdrawal of contributions from shipowners to the Inland Navigation Fund, which will constitute further important financial support for shipowners - this solution is intended to ensure the implementation of the long-term environmental demands of inland shipowners and to increase the profitability of inland waterway transport; the extension of the range of beneficiaries that can apply for preferential credits from the Inland Navigation Fund to ship owners of passenger ships and maintenance and technical vessels and foreign shipowners. In addition, the draft law sets out: firstly, the principles and functioning of the Inland Navigation Fund, the Reserve Fund and the Council of Inland Navigation - the advisory and advisory body of the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport; secondly, the scope and manner of adoption of the plan to promote inland waterway transport - a document to enable promotional and educational activities in the field of inland waterway transport to be financed by the Inland Navigation Fund. It should be pointed out that the proposed law also ensures that the European Commission's proposals for the existing fund are implemented. Except for the WW. a number of improvements and procedural facilitations for the handling of applications by shipowners for financial support are introduced in the draft law. The implementation of the measures provided for in the draft law will result in: firstly, increasing the profitability of inland waterway transport; secondly, ensuring compliance of the solutions provided for in the draft law with European Union legislation; thirdly, improving and facilitating the procedure for examining applications submitted by shipowners; fourthly, providing support for education and promotion activities in the field of inland waterway transport. Finally, Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, as rapporteur, I recommend the adoption of this draft law on the financial support of inland vessels, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u134	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Materna will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft Print Act 3666 and 3693. The government's draft law on the financial support of inland ship owners, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund is another step of the government aimed at developing inland waterway transport in Poland. This time, the support is intended to cover shippers sailing on waterways in Poland. It is worth mentioning the measures already taken and implemented by the government concerning support for shipping. Firstly, Poland's accession to AGN, a European agreement on major inland waterways of international importance. Secondly, to take account of the role of inland waterway transport in the country's core strategy papers, such as: the Responsible Development Strategy for 2020 (with a view to 2030), Transport development strategy up to 2020 (with a view to 2030) and the currently under review Transport sustainability strategy up to 2030. Thirdly, work on the Odrzaska Waterway Development Programme and the Vistula River Waterway Development Programme. Fourthly, the implementation of ongoing investments aimed at restoring effective water transport on Polish waterways, including: completing the construction of the water level in Malczyce, which lasted over 22 years and this year will be implemented; starting the construction of water stages Lubiaż and Ścinawa; the implementation of projects on the Odrzańska Water Road co-financed by the Operational Programme In view of the economic situation of Polish inland ship owners and the need to modernise and exchange inland waterway vessels, the government adopted a draft law on financial support for inland waterway ship owners, implementing further environmental demands for inland waterway ship owners. The contested bill provides support for this sector of the economy. Firstly, it extends the catalogue of financial support instruments for shipowners to redeem part of the preferential loans and to refinance the purchase of the ship's equipment. Secondly, it extends the catalogue of vessels for which financial support can be sought, passenger ships and vessels carrying out maintenance and modernisation work on waterways. Thirdly, it removes the unnecessary contributions of shipowners to the shipping fund, which will increase the profitability of the operators' business activities. Fourthly, it establishes a promotion plan on the basis of which education and promotion activities in the field of inland waterway transport can be supported. Fifthly, it streamlines and simplifies the procedures for examining applications for financial support from the Inland Navigation Fund. In addition, the financial support provided for in the draft law for modernising old ships and purchasing new ships - allowing the replacement of an obsolete fleet with a new fleet - will also make a positive impact on the environment. This green form of transport, which is inland navigation, will be able to have even less impact on the environment, so the adoption of the government's draft law on financial support will be part of the government's sustainable development policy of Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the bill and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Borowczak... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Oh, there it is. Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition on the government draft law amending the Law on ports and marinas and certain other laws, prints No 3666 and 3693. Representatives of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition very actively participated in the work of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We shared the position of other parliamentary clubs during committee work in relation to the main assumptions of the government's proposal to amend the Law on Ports and Seaports. We share the thesis in the report of the Parliament's Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. The fact that every such amendment of our national law leads to closer European integration, which is in the vital interest of the Republic of Poland, requires emphasis. Therefore, I have the pleasure of expressing my support for the report submitted to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation of the Sejm on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition will vote in favour of the proposed amendment to the Government bill amending the Law on Ports and Seaports and some other laws as presented by the Parliamentary Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kobylarz made his statement on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 in writing. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Polska, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland is in favour of continuing its work on the submitted government bill on financial support of inland ship owners, print no. 3666 and 3693. This draft law aims to regulate, systematise, harmonise provisions on support for shipowners or entities operating in inland waterway transport. I think that the provisions on the creation of this fund, as a continuation of the 2002 Act, are presented in a clear manner. The various chapters set out the rules for support. Many concepts are defined and harmonised. We define financial support and the form of this financial support. We're talking about sources of funding, legitimate directions for his destiny. Several sources of funding are specified. I think it would be good if all these sources later, during the process, will be used, including donations and records, targeted grants, but the main ones will come from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. A reserve fund is also created, broken down into three lines of operation, distinguishing vessels for dry cargo transport, tankers and push craft. There is also talk of the creation of the Inland Navigation Council as an advisory body. I think the project is clearly presented. I think if they get to that financial size in time, we can talk about the details. The whole will be run by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. We're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u140	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see, so I'm shutting her down. I begin with Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill on the financial support of inland shipping companies, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund is a very good bill and we support it as much as possible. This will, I hope, make the Vistula more clear, as the rapporteur said. I am very much in favour of improving the sailing of the Vistula. The rapporteur, on the other hand, spoke about the implementation of the construction of water grades. I wanted to ask what their schedule was. Where's the money in the budget? Because I don't see them there. Because at the beginning of our term of office we spoke at the Gdańsk University of Technology, there was a large meeting organized on this subject, and there were many assurances as soon as this, immediately the Vistula will be irritated, water grades will be built. [[♪ The bell ♪]] None of them have been implemented so far. Thank you very much. Goodbye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u142	Thank you very much. And another question, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much. Minister, inland navigation has been completely neglected for decades, many years. Many inland waterways have ceased to function due to partial or total loss of navigability. Today, the project under consideration concerns aid for ship owners to rebuild and modernise the shipping fleet. Some might claim that there is no point in talking about acquiring or modernising ships or more ships, since they simply do not have a place to swim. Therefore, I would like the Minister to say a few sentences about the correlation between the project under investigation, the programme for the reconstruction of inland waterways and the programme for the expansion of retention, without which our waterways will not have enough water, so they will not be able to fulfil their role throughout the year. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u144	Thank you very much. This question and the previous questions will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Marek G grubarczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you very much for supporting this bill. It is very important when it comes to our shipowners, although it should be said in the framework of the correction that this applies primarily to the fleet we have - unfortunately, a rachitic fleet, but it exists, although most shipping does not take place in our waters for a simple reason, because these roads were not prepared. Therefore, the second fund, which is currently under preparation, the Inland Road Development Fund, is intended to implement the basic inland roads within our country, namely E40, E30 and E70, together with the links with the Danube and Dnieprem. In this respect, this project is mainly part of the support of shipowners, extending the range of funding opportunities, as well as promotional elements which are extremely important in the light of the unfortunately negative policy that is being built in inland waterway transport, which is completely different from that of the EU, which, after all, wants to promote inland waterway shipping as the greenest one. The programme we have adopted as part of the reconstruction of inland waterways is currently being implemented and is being carried out in the feasibility study. The nearest investments to be undertaken have already been mentioned by Mr Materna. I'm just gonna add to that about Sulphur, which is on the Vistula River, prepared to tender for the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u146	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u147	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Kukiz'15, I have the honour to present a position regarding the government draft law on financial support for inland ship owners, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund, print No. 3666. The purpose of the new regulations is to align Polish law with the recommendations of the European Commission. The proposal concerns the implementation of the recommendations set out in the European Commission's position on: - extending the list of beneficiaries of the Inland Navigation Fund to entities from EU Member States, - the limitation in the provisions of the aid up to a de minimis amount, - remove the mechanism for the payment of funds from the FCE for permanent exclusion of ships from service, - repealing the provisions on aid to firms in economic difficulties. The introduction of new solutions will, as a result, increase the efficiency of the use of resources from the Inland Navigation Fund. The proposed rules will enable the development and modernisation of the inland waterway fleet by providing financial support from the Inland Navigation Fund to shipowners. Among the forms of support for shipowners were: - loans with preferential interest rates, - redemption of part of preferential loans, - the refinancing of the purchase of marine equipment components. In addition, the regulation provides for the waiver of inland ship owners' contributions to the Inland Navigation Fund and an increase in the number of beneficiaries who can apply for loans from the Inland Navigation Fund for ship owners of passenger and technical vessels, which will facilitate the operation of ship owners who are currently encountering problems related to the lack of navigability of rivers. We believe that this bill will have a positive impact on the company's environment and will contribute to the further development of this area of economy, which is why the Kukiz Club supports the above mentioned proposal. solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u148	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation setting out the course of the national border line between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Lithuania signed in Vilnius on 17 February 2018 (prints No 3581 and 3628). Mr Józef Leśniak will present a report to the committee. You're welcome. We do not have Mr Leśniak in the room, so we will try to contact him, find out when he arrives, and we will know in a moment. As you can see, the entire Seym is waiting for one Member. In that case, I'm declaring a time-out. 15.10. About an hour. 15 is scheduled to meet the Sejm and Senior Convention Bureau, and you will have to wait for the report to be presented, since it is too late. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 54 hrs. 15 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 8 of the agenda. The report will be presented by Józef Leśniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Joint Commission: Foreign Affairs and Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation defining the conduct of the national border line between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the Republic of Lithuania signed at Vilnius on 17 February 2018, print No 3581. The 2018 Agreement aims to fulfil the obligations arising from the agreement between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the Republic of Lithuania on the common state border, its legal relations and cooperation and mutual assistance in border matters, drawn up in Vilnius on 5 March 1996. In accordance with its provision, the detailed conduct of the national border line shall be determined by the border documentation listed in a separate agreement signed in 2018 and forming an integral part of it. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Joint Committees: Foreign Affairs and Administration and Home Affairs, following their first reading and the examination of the contested draft Print Act No 3581 at its meeting of 16 July 2019, request that it be adopted by the High Sejm without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u150	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, you will present your position to Mr Kurzepa. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u151	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice with regard to printing No 3581, i.e. the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation setting out the course of the state border line between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the Republic of Lithuania signed in Vilnius on 17 February 2018, is as follows. Recognizing the primitive role of the President of the Republic of Poland in this matter, taking for a well-founded, legal and documentary presentation of it, standing in the position that there is a need to standardise and organise partnership relations with the Republic of Lithuania, also on documentation defining the course of the border line between our countries, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends the adoption of the bill of procedure and fully supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u152	Thank you very much. Ms Cornelia Wróblewska will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u153	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Coalition I have the honour to present my position on print No 3581, i.e. on the draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation defining the course of the national border line between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the Republic of Lithuania signed in Vilnius on 17 February 2018. This agreement constitutes the implementation of another agreement between the said countries of 5 March 1996, talks about a common state border, its legal relations and cooperation and mutual assistance in border matters. At the same time, it imposes on the parties the need to maintain the state border clearly and to introduce periodic checks on its progress. In accordance with that agreement, the conduct of the national border line shall be determined by the border documentation mentioned in a separate agreement. In order to implement these provisions, the Polish-Lithuanian Border Commission carried out the first joint review of the course of the Polish-Lithuanian state border between 2000 and 2003 and 2011. On the basis of its results, it prepared border documentation, which includes the following documents: a protocol description of the conduct of the national border line, a state border map, border marks protocols, a list of border marks coordinates and mathematical points determining the state border and the final protocol of the first joint control of the Polish-Lithuanian state border, carried out by the Polish-Lithuanian Border Commission. The entry into force of the agreement will not have any negative political impact on relations between both countries or any negative social or economic impact in our country. Nor will it have financial implications for the public finance sector in terms of reducing their revenue or increasing their expenditure in a significant way, nor will it have additional financial implications for the state budget than those provided for in the budget. We support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak was to perform on behalf of the Kukiz club15, but I do not see Mr Józwiak. Therefore, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u155	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The Polish-Lithuanian Border Commission carried out a joint review of the progress of the Polish-Lithuanian state border between 2000 and 2003 and 2011 (2012) and, on the basis of the results of this check, produced border documentation, which includes border documents, listed enumeratively in the explanatory memorandum of the law defined as the need and purpose of binding the Republic of Poland to the agreement. A specific role was played here in the list of coordinates of border marks and mathematical points setting the course of the state border. At this point, reference should be made to a great deal of work and expenditure in order to develop technical conditions such as draft technical documents, rules for monitoring the implementation of geodetic, cartographic and construction works, without which it would not be possible to prepare and draw up draft border documentation. After they were implemented, it was decided to update the state border with orthophotomap prepared by the Lithuanian side in 2011. To this end, it was further considered desirable to measure the coast lines of the river Marycha and the stream without a name. The documentation thus drawn up, including the review and assessment of the status of border marks and the geodetic measurement of all border marks after the change of the marking system, which took place in 2002, gave rise to the recognition of the comprehensive documentation as complete. High Seym! Within the scope of national law, today's law is closely linked to the provisions of the Law of 12 October 1990 on the protection of the state border. The entry into force of the Agreement will not have any negative social and economic consequences and its implementation is not linked to the adoption of any additional legal measures. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, following the principles of respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity of the states and the inviolability of the state border and recognising the full legitimacy of the passed law, will vote fully in favour of its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u156	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. So I close the list. The only question at this point will be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The agreement on the conduct of the Polish-Lithuanian border signed in Vilnius in 2018 is definitely a good document which allows to maintain good relations between Poland and Lithuania. However, we must lean on the situation of Poles living in Lithuania. Why is the Polish government unable to reach an agreement between Poland and Lithuania on the double names of the towns in which Poles live? The Polish government should definitely guard the interests of Poles. When signing such important agreements between countries, the situation of Poles in a given country should always be an important reference point during discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u158	Thank you very much. This question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Sylvester Tułayev. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for this discussion. Thank you for the question, too. First of all, I would like to thank you for what happened at the Joint Committee meeting on 16 July 2019. Joint committees: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs discuss, debate on this law, take place first reading. I thank the Members of Parliament for their active participation and for the adoption of this report without any comments and without a vote of opposition. Today, too, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Members for the debate and for the support of this bill. In replying directly to the question asked, I would also like to inform you that this law does not apply. This law concerns the border, it concerns documentation related to this, it does not concern those matters that you have spoken of. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u160	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a break from the hour. 20 when the vote takes place. [[Twenty?]] Madame, we wanted earlier, we were voted on at the Bureau meeting, so by noon. 20 is a break. I picked it up, but unfortunately, by the time I got there. 20. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 26 hours 20 min 50]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - supplementary benefits for persons unable to live independently, - about fire protection. The reports shall be in prints No 3725 and 3726, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce regulatory burdens. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill submitted. The Sejm decided to join the third reading without referring this draft law back to the committee. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3701. A summary of the amendments tabled was sent to ladies and gentlemen for print No 3701. We can vote. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose a change in reference No 1 to the title of the Act. Amendments 9 and 14 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel. There you go. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are very pleased that the state from the government part listened to our action in Intrenet - it is only a pity that we had to do so - and you are extending the deadline for making statements to the 13th. [[Applause]] You may not even know that this law, which seems so insignificant, contains this amendment. Because it is only now that the rulers have found that half of the entrepreneurs have not made these statements at all. [[Gunshots.]] I'm asking if, up to such a massive action in Intrenet - from our Civil Coalition, the intention - had to come to your senses. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u162	Thank you. Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski wishes to speak on this matter. There you go. [[Translate, translator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to inform you that by Monday all the statements to be made have been made. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Until Monday.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: Jokes.]] Wait a minute. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Please listen to my words to the end. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, on Monday there were no more queues. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] The statements, as I've heard, have been made. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] All statements of those who wanted to make them were accepted. [[You're kidding, man.]] On the other hand, we have information that a large group of people are on foreign holidays. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voices from the room: Aaaa...]] We got that information. Those people knew about it, but they forgot. I even have an e-mail... [[One.]] ...in which such a person apologizes because she knew at the beginning of July that she had to make a statement, but she didn't. So we're going out to meet these people. Members decided that this deadline should be extended by two weeks. [[What if the holidays are longer?]] Then everything's fine. Everyone's happy about it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And those who came to make statements said that for the fact that the workers worked on Sundays and Saturdays, they apologized because they had not made statements before. And they even brought the cake to the employees. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] So everything is very elegant, very cool, the bill is done. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The bill is executed and this year, on the basis that, so to speak, transfers of payments on the accounts of individual entrepreneurs will be paid over the whole year an amount of PLN 4 billion. That amount will be paid. The first tranche of 2 billion 200 for the first half of the year will be paid in September. [[Voice from the room: With my money.]] So everything is handled very well, and these 2 weeks are needed for those who for various reasons have not made statements. That's why we're meeting each other so these statements can be made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u164	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1, 9 and 14, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 400, against - 1 stopped 5. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 2 of the draft amending act propose that applicants make a different wording of point 1. Amendment 12 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Don't mock this speaker at hard-working entrepreneurs, micro- and small entrepreneurs who create jobs for themselves. When we started the action: Go get yours, most of them had no idea that such a statement had to be made. [[Applause]] You haven't done anything to inform them that if they don't make a statement... [[And Kurski didn't do anything either.]] ...then from this month they'll have up to 70%. higher electricity bills. Come here and apologize to the entrepreneurs for the stress you've been experiencing over the last few days, wondering if you'd like to come back from your vacation to make this statement. [[For this spoiled vacation.]] Come and apologize to everyone: bakers, shopkeepers, hairdressers, who, if they hadn't made a statement, if it hadn't been for our action, would have had it by 50%. higher bills. It's real. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Money. [[Applause]] These are not state-made cats, companies of the Treasury that are ready to pay some higher bills for you every time. [[Applause]] [[Way to go, Paulina!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u166	Thank you, Member. Actually, I think it was a call for a vote. So we proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 12, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 392, no one voted against, 19. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 2 of the draft amending act propose to add points 1a and points 17 to 20. Amendment 15 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Mr Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u167	Minister Tchórzewski! I expected everything, but not that you remind me of the Sejm Information Centre, which in April claimed that Marshal Kuchciński on business trips by plane... [[Voice from the O.R.: Not on the subject.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u168	Madam President, ask questions about the third amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u169	That he wasn't accompanied by his family on these trips. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Minister Tchórzewski! The micro-entrepreneurs in Poland would not have made statements to energy plants on the increase of electricity prices if it had not been for the action of the Civic Coalition: the electric robbery, go get yours. [[Applause]] Today you remind me, Minister Tchórzewski, Director Grzegrzółka, who misleads journalists by saying that you did not travel with your family. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u170	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention under Article. 175. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Don't be shy.]] You're not asking a question about Amendment 3, you're making a statement. [[And the chopper again.]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 3 and 15, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 393, no one voted against, with 19. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. The draft amending act shall propose amendments to point 3. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I still have a very important question for you. His task was asked by many micro-, small entrepreneurs, who each day find it difficult to maintain their jobs. What bills will they pay for electricity from January next year? What kind of a raise is there for them at the beginning of the new year? What did the government do to avoid these raises? Because they feel like you haven't done anything in this area in four years. In short, and asking a specific question: What increases are expected by entrepreneurs from January next year... [[Cards on the table!]] ...after your miserable government of the country? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u172	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 394, no one voted against, 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 9 of the draft amending act propose amendments to points 1 and 3. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 5 and 6, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 396, no one voted against, 18. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 7th amendment to the article. 33 of the draft amending act, the applicants propose a different wording of point 3. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister Tchórzewski! I wanted to ask you if you had the courage. Politics should be brave. Do you have any courage in you? If you have the courage, you should come here and apologize to all these micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. [[For what?]] They had very short time to make this statement, and you did nothing... [[Voice from the room: Speak up.]] ...to help them do it. You've been hiding that information. Second question. Will you finally tell us how much Poles will pay for electricity after the election? Because this freeze is for election time. How much really? Whether it's 50, 70, or 120%. Maybe Poles have been waiting for such increases since 1 January 2020? Because that's probably what this is all about. That information you're hiding. And one last question, Minister. For hiding information from businessmen [[♪ The bell ♪]] about the possibility of lowering, freezing...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u174	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u175	...electricity bills, or... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u176	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 7th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 397, no one voted against, 18. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 63 draft amending act. Amendments 10 and 17 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Mr Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We must remind all of us that when it comes to the statements of the final beneficiaries, the electricity consumers, it is not only the micro-entrepreneurs that Minister Tchórzewski forgot about... [[Please refer to the amendment.]] ...not conducting any information campaign that reminds entrepreneurs to make appropriate statements, but, High Izbo, they're also hospitals, care and medicine facilities, they're also social services homes, other public finance units that, if they don't make a statement, will pay increased electricity bills. Minister Tchórzewski, you said that on Monday everyone who was supposed to submit. Do you know of any health care establishments, do you know any social services houses, do you know any hospitals or clinics that may not have made that statement, and do you consider the Civil Coalition as valuable? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Intel? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u178	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 8, 10 and 17, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 396, no one voted against, 18. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 11th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 67a in the draft amending act. Amendment 16 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Tchórzewski, who just said from this speaker that everyone is pleased. [[This is the Brexit amendment, sir.]] I'd like you to answer the question about the electricity. Have you had a chance to talk to the businessmen... [[Have you had the chance to read the project?]] ...who stood up to the hour. 23 in queues, a few hours later, about an increase in electricity prices? I ask the Minister to answer this question, because I have the impression that you have not had the opportunity to stand for five or six hours and you have not spoken to the entrepreneurs, because they would certainly convey their satisfaction to you in a different way than you imagine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u180	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 11 and 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 397, no one voted against, 18. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 13th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 75a in the draft amending act. The question is asked by Mr Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u181	Minister Tchórzewski, I have a question for you: How many small family companies are there in Poland, such companies that consist of two or three people? On the Warsaw Wola there is a Studio of Cupcakes Zagoźniński, maybe the marshal of this bakery once heard. There's the best doughnuts in town. It was founded in 1925 and Marshal Piłsudski sent there for donuts of his adjutant. [[On a plane.]] I called the owner of the candy shop, Mrs. Sylvia, because they're always closed in July, so I sent a text to remind you if she made a statement. No, because she was on vacation. This text saved the life of this small company that has existed since 1925. How can you say, Minister Tchórzewski... [[Please refer to the amendment.]] ...that everyone who was supposed to make a deposit on Monday? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u182	That's the question. Not about that. Ladies and gentlemen, the question to be asked about Amendment 13 is the inclusion on the list of permanent mediators. [[You're the one who says no about it.]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 392, no one voted against, 20 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.3701, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 406, no one voted against, 7. The Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws to reduce regulatory burdens. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law amending the electoral code law. During the second reading of the bill, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. An objection was raised in the light of the request for immediate entry into the third reading of the draft law without re-directing the draft to the committee. I will put the proposal for a third reading to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm re-directed the bill to the committee. We're voting. Who of your Members is in favour of the request for immediate entry into the third reading of the bill, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 245, against - 169, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the proposal and therefore decided to proceed immediately to the third reading of the bill. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3683. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The question is asked by Mr Szymański.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u183	High Izbo! We've filed a motion to reject this project in its entirety so that the High House doesn't have to break the law. Ladies and gentlemen! This project is absolutely illegal, breaking all constitutional standards. First of all, you are breaking the legislative silence to which you are bound by the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. There should be no major changes to electoral law for six months after the first election. [[Voice from the room: These are not important changes.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, you wish to decide the outcome of the election by means of an unconstitutional, unconstitutional choice of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. This chamber has no right to operate in the legal order system in Poland. Why? Because she was elected by an illegal KRS and has no right to rule on the validity of elections in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Right.]] This chamber is illegal, this project is illegal, you have no right to vote on this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u184	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 170, against - 240, holding down 5. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no.3683, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 244, against - 167, with 4. The Sejm passed a law amending the electoral code law and the national referendum law. We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on the general agricultural census in 2020. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3649. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the agricultural census will be held in 2020. The surveyors are preparing for this. One surveyor I had a chance to talk to asked me and asked me to ask your marshal something. He would very much like to work as a surveyor and asked if he could rent a plane from you. I hear your airline... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u186	Mr President, this is not a question about the draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3649 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For-- 409, against-- 2, he's holding off on one. The Sejm passed a law on the general agricultural census in 2020. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law on the financial support of inland vessels, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3693. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No. 3693, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 410, no one voted against, 3 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on financial support for inland ship owners, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation setting out the course of the national border line between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Lithuania signed in Vilnius on 17 February 2018. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 3581. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting this bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 410, against 1 Member voted, no one abstained. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation defining the course of the national border line between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the Republic of Lithuania signed in Vilnius on 17 February 2018. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Supplementary witnessing for persons unable to self-exist (prints 3715 and 3725). I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate's resolution on the Act on Supplementary witnessing for persons unable to self-exist, print No 3725. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 31 July 2019 the Sejm adopted a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Supplementary Service Act for persons unable to self-exist is addressed to the most deprived persons who need the care of another person who cannot perform their basic life functions themselves. After considering this law, the Senate decided to amend its text in 10 amendments. These are very good, expected by the environment of people with disabilities. Two of these amendments are absolutely substantive, which change the presentation of the Seym. Amendment 1 in Article. 2 introduces the possibility that as regards the supplementary benefit, as well as its amount... In order to exclude benefits from the survivor's pension. This amendment deletes the paragraphs. Article 3 2, which means that the provisions of the Act include the provision of a wider range of recipients. About 500,000. It is estimated that the persons entitled to benefit from this law will be 800,000. Amendment 3 proposes that a supplementary benefit be granted to any entitled person who receives certain cash benefits whose value does not exceed PLN 1600 per month. The supplementary benefit will be granted to the person entitled of no more than PLN 500, the total amount of such benefits and supplementary benefits shall not exceed PLN 1600 per month. This means that all persons who exceed the amount of PLN 1100 entitlement to this benefit will receive this benefit if the total amount of these benefits does not exceed PLN 1600, i.e. in general those who may lose this benefit due to a slight overrun of that amount of PLN 20, PLN 50, PLN 100, will receive a supplementary benefit less that amount. The environment of people with disabilities, NGOs welcomed these amendments with great satisfaction. The remaining amendments, and there are ten of them, are amendments which are the consequence of substantive amendments. High Izbo! The Social Policy and Family Committee, after considering this resolution at its meeting today, adopted these amendments with 20 votes in favour and nine votes against. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt amendments. High Izbo! Because I noticed that the Member wanted to speak before starting to proceed on this point... I think the matter is about the proceedings of today's committee meeting. We have dealt with the scandalous behaviour of Members who did not allow your president to lead... [[But you're the rapporteur.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal!]] I'm speaking as rapporteur. You may disagree with me, but I am the rapporteur, a member of this committee, and a witness to this incident. [[Everyone could have seen the transmission.]] [[Voice from the room: There was a transmission.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a transmission. Everyone's seen it. A few things you, as Members of the opposition, should know at the end of the term of the Sejm. [[Voice from the room: Okay. We're voting.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate amendments are not open to discussion. [[What?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] Mr. Marshal of the Seym, Mr. Marshal of the Seym...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u188	Madam, I understand that the report has been submitted by the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u189	...under the Rules of Procedure, the Sejm may not have sent these amendments to the committee at all. [[Voice from the Chamber: Democratic package.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments can either be accepted or rejected, we cannot make any change. [[But we can ask.]] Stop doing politics around this good bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u190	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u191	High Izbo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u192	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u193	The final conclusion of the committee is to accept the Senate's amendments, which I ask of the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Thank you, Madam President.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u194	Thank you. The formal proposal is currently being tabled by Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u195	Dear Marshal, On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 1 and 3 point 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I submit a formal request for a reference to the Senate's resolution on the Supplementary Service Act for persons unable to self-exist, print No 3715. You're right. We can either accept or reject these amendments, but we have every right to ask questions: to ask questions from the Minister, [[Applause]] legislators and all those involved in building this law and resolution. And it can't be like this at the committee meeting that we still get warm prints from the printer and we don't have time to even read them, and they're just stuck in one vote and voted out. What right are we being insulted as Members at this committee meeting? What right are they shutting us down... [[Voice from the room: Microphones.]] ...microphones? 10 amendments blocked in one [[♪ The bell ♪]] Without the minister's explanation, none of us know...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u196	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u197	...the effects of these amendments. What's more, they can be hard on the Rentists... [[Don't interrupt her.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Don't interrupt the marshal.]] ...family. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u198	Thank you, Member. A formal request has been made to refer the draft to the committee and I will put it to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the full formal proposal made by the Member, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. Za - 172, against - 239, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 2 The Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph 2. 2 and the deletion of paragraph 2. 3. Amendments 2 to 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Seym! Why does the government insist on the income criterion on which the right of persons with disabilities to this benefit is to depend? This criterion will ensure that many people in need of such support will not receive this support. The amendment adopted in the Sejm eliminated the income criterion for the majority of eligible persons. The Senate amendments restore this criterion of income. A few days ago, the Minister of Finance assured from this place that the budget had never been in a better position, never been richer. Earlier, in May, just before the elections to the European Parliament, you gave an additional pension benefit to everyone, by transfer to your account, without asking for requests and the situation of these people, and without any income threshold. Why, then, does the government insist that this benefit for the most deprived depend on the income criterion, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what will cause many people not to receive this benefit? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u200	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Łukasz Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are simple questions to ask. Isn't it that the PO-KO amendment didn't really eliminate anything because it repealed a special provision, but the general rule didn't touch it at all? Isn't that the amendment adopted by the Senators of Law and Justice... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: You have to learn to read.]] ...means an increase in the number of people who receive this benefit to 900,000.? [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] And isn't it that the programme has been extended to more than PLN 4.5 billion? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a question of how many of these funds have been received by the disabled in your governments. Wasn't that a zero? The question is how much money has been received e.g. from the 500+-family programme 400 000. Children with disabilities and wasn't that a zero? There's also a question to be asked and one thing to say... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice in the O.R.: You're picking up cash from the disabled.]] ...that you're party zero really, which means no help when you're in charge... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u202	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u203	...and zero credibility of the opposition. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u204	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against amendments 1 to 10, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 163, against - 244, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Fire Protection Act (Prints 3716 and 3726). I would like to ask Edward Siarka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Senate has submitted three amendments to the government's fire protection bill. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs at today's meeting examines these amendments and recommends that all three amendments be accepted by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u206	Please. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Fire Protection Act. In the 1st amendment, the Senate proposes to keep the current wording of the article. 33. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u207	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Seym! In the explanatory memorandum of the 2003 Constitutional Court's judgment, we read, quote: The burden on central authorities with excessive specific tasks that can be resolved at local level does not increase the efficiency of the State's activities, but, on the contrary, often prevents the exercise of competences of national importance. Dear Minister, Is excessive centralisation not contrary to the principle of subsidiarity? Question two: Do you not burden the central authorities with excessive specific tasks that local authorities would successfully perform? Firefighters are often said to be knights of St. Floriana. In a moment's vote, we'll see. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or all those who call themselves knights...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u208	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u209	...in fact, they can behave in knightly...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u210	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u211	...if they care only about business... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...of his political party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u212	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 173, against - 238, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 33a The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 3 and 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u213	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Volunteer firefighters never follow politics by saving another man's life because we have always been and are faithful to the firefighter's call: God for glory, people for good. Today, during the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, Minister Zieliński tried to mock my active 34-year firefighter activity. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Of course, with all responsibility, Minister, I would like to answer your question about the last time I was in the rescue-sailing operation. When I was a young man, I used to drive a lot. Today I have my age and have very active activities in the field of education, culture, sport and fire training. And I want to tell you, Minister, I'm not on guard to be thrown confetti under my feet. And I'm not here to be hung by my portraits in the guards. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It hurts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u214	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 172, against - 240, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to keep the current wording of the article. 39. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. [[Question.]] Mr Wójcik - question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at the committee meeting, Minister Zieliński made it very simple to justify the need for these amendments. Well, he said you were repairing an accident at work. Yes, it is. This whole meeting today is only because you are trying to correct your accidents at work concerning people with disabilities and voluntary fire services - only because you listened to your minister's words and made a mistake voting here. The question to your marshal is, how much does it cost today to sit down with the Sejm and fix your accident at work? [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Very good question.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: And planes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u216	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 171, against - 242, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 3766). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to speak? No one's checking in. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print No 3706, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 394 Members voted. For - 380, against -5, holding down 9. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. We're done with the vote. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 33 hrs. 21 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. We have completed the agenda items scheduled for 31 July this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? Since no one is reporting, I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz, has the first vote15. I invite you to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u217	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to make another message about the exclusion of communications, railroads. High Izbo! On March 13th of this year, in my parliamentary statement, I already talked about the exclusion of communication, railway residents of Koszalin land, problems with traveling in the afternoons and nights to Warsaw and back to Koszalin. Now, in the summer season, a connection was added. Recently I wanted to go to Warsaw on Sunday, unfortunately there were no seats on trains - means there is a laying, there are passengers, they want to ride. I was forced to take the express train the day before Saturday. This is a problem for many residents, and it is also about ticket prices. The representatives of the PiS often show themselves in the media, show how they care about the region, give way. There was also a conference and it was shown that they would renovate the railway station, as has been said many times. Such actions are promotional and marketing actions before the autumn elections. But about excluding rail and communications somehow quietly, without an answer. Now another blow has been struck in the region of Bialygardzko-Świdwiński in the Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship. Here I will support my statement on the basis of an article from the Koszalin Voice. The article says: This is the first time this region felt marginalized 10 years ago when it decided to transfer the S6 route to Kołobrzeg. Now even trains would bypass the Whitegard and Świdwin with a wide bow. Białogard City Council President Tomasz Strzbała announces that he and the city councillors of Białogard are preparing a petition to the authorities of the state in which they wish to prove that the planned solution is wrong. I believe that it is necessary to examine whether it is appropriate to transfer part of the interregional traffic and, as a result, to pass by the interregional trains of Białogard and Świdwina - then trains to Szczecin or Gdansk would not go through these cities. There is a concern that the exclusion of railway and communication of these cities, even partially, will lead to further degradation of this part of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. From this speaker I ask the rulers and Members of Koszalin soil to take such measures so that trains do not avoid Białogard and Świdwin - as you are effectively acting, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of improving access to ports in Szczecin and Świnoujście - so that the Koszalin region is not treated so far in step-by-step, which can be felt until now as if this region were a worse sector of West Pomeranian voivodeship, type B. Let me add that large parties in our region need residents only for elections. And what is strange is that our representatives in Parliament should be as little as possible, then they throw themselves on the one candidates from Szczecin and local candidates for parliamentarians do not get into parliament and they cannot take care of their region. Only occasionally do those who are chosen from Szczecin appear at conferences once every six months and then disappear. And the Member must have contact every day so that he can visit the office as often as possible or meet him like that, just like that, on the street and talk, I think that my words from this speaker will meet with the answer. I greet the people of Białogard, Świdwina and the people of Koszalin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] I know it's very difficult to part, but I appeal to the ladies and gentlemen of the House to move the talks into cockroaches so that parliamentarians can make their statements calmly. I invite Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u219	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On Saturday, July 20th, the 14th Kujawiak Convention connected with the Bedroom for Friends took place in the district of Włocławski. The key point of the meeting was the unveiling of two plaques on the monument to the Kujawski Defenders of the Homeland. The first commemorates the Kujawy defenders of the homeland fighting in the Second World War on the 80th anniversary of its outbreak, the second - heroes on the 100th anniversary of the winning Greater Poland Uprising. It was with great joy that I once again took part in a meeting in the Crow's Rendezvous. Thank you very much to Janusz Borkowski, the initiator and organizer of this annual event integrating the inhabitants of beautiful Kujawy, my native land. Thank you for commemorating heroes, for promoting love for our little homeland, but also for appreciating the role of local artists, folk artists and folklore singers. The feast for Friends, culminating in the official part of the meeting, gave the opportunity to integrate many environments, including numerous seniors. It was beautiful, patriotic and family-like, and from above the fires above the Kujawy fields echoed the singing: Hey, Kujawy, how lovely, where there is such a second country, here you will experience wonderful moments, here you will live a paradise. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Beautiful, beautiful, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u220	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There'll be an uprising tomorrow. There's nothing for sure yet. True, boys and girls prepare their weapons carefully, gather at points of concentration and dream of free Poland. We've been waiting for this for so long. It seems that it explodes against the rigors of war strategy, in the face of the overwhelming forces of the German occupier. Warsawers arise hardo from their knees. Perhaps they have lasted too long in this humiliating attitude when the bull's visage was whistling over them or the passing bullets were blowing. Or maybe the sea of Polish blood spilled too high and their eyes became more and more flooded, which they cried out in a powerless complaint, more and more angry. When you keep pushing you around for anything that takes away your life, when you are a helpless witness of murder and rape on your fellowman and city, until recently yours becomes a constantly yawning wound of pain and despair, there comes a time when you want one thing: to call for enough! and fight for dignity and the feeling that you haven't been mutilated and you don't walk by your leg, you don't fetch when they tell you to, and you don't bark to make rude people laugh. Because there's something more valuable than the will to survive at all costs than opportunism and servilism of a coward groaning. It's your dignity and honor, it's the way you confront occupation, rape, and evil. On August 1, 1944, Warsaw broke off for flight. Basically, it was a flight from high to the pavement, into channels, in consciously confronting pain, fire, which smeared the face and overburned the wings, which ends in quilting down. Why did you get all heroic? What's the point of doing that? That is why, in order to rise high, at most from possible ceilings of heroism, fidelity to ideals and love of freedom for the beloved homeland, so that in the perspective of passing years we can always see the free flight of free people, for whom dignity means more than pain. Honor is worth the sacrifice of life. Warsaw and Poland are not able to tame, conquer, own. We see you in the Warsaw sky, brave insurgents, we walk daily on the pavement of your blood, and through it we grow, live and continue. Hello and praise the heroes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u222	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this statement, I would like to refer to the special profession, the missionary profession, the profession of professional curator, the probation officer. The probation officer is a public servant. The court's curators shall act on a cooperative basis in the judicial team and their professional duties shall be educational and rehabilitational. The scope of duties is defined by law, Penal Code, Law on Curators. According to Art. 1 The Curators Act carries out educational, rehabilitation, diagnostic, preventive and control tasks. These actions are linked to the enforcement of judgments of the court. Dante Alighieri said that hope comes to man with another man. Curators with whom I have come to cooperate are characterized by ease in establishing contacts, general kindness, serenity, lack of moralization, lack of assessment according to my own conduct, according to my own criterion of assessment, acceptance and assistance of the subject as an opposition only to controls, prohibitions and orders, tact in conduct and faith in improving the situation of his subjects, ability to live with others, resolution of conflicts. Personal qualities desired by the curator are common goodness, understanding, tolerance, mildness, kindness, but also firmness, discipline as necessary to achieve success in the work of the curator. The effectiveness of actions indirectly involves the guardian's personality, external characteristics such as appearance, beauty, growth, age, adequate resources of interdisciplinary knowledge and the ability to use it in practice, as well as good knowledge of the local environment. High Izbo! I, too, have been a probation officer at the family court for 20 years, a social parole officer. And at this point, I want to thank all the parolees, but especially the probation officer I've been working with for 25 years, Mrs. Katarzyna Sip, who is celebrating 25 years of work and 50 years of life at the same time. Those qualities I've been talking about, these are the qualities of this probation officer, too. Thank you very much to all the curators for their work, for their great commitment, for their great sense of missionary work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u224	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. I don't see a Member. So Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u225	High Izbo! I had the pleasure of talking to a man who was in a sense unusual because he was the driver of Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki. He talked about how often he waited under his bachelorette, because the Prime Minister made scrambled eggs - just, alone. He talked about the fact that on his way to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers he ordered him to stay constantly in the same place. He'd come out of the car and buy himself a newspaper. He's always refused to help in this matter, he's done it himself, without hundreds of thousands of dollars on his own. A modest, ordinary Pole in public service. It hasn't been 30 years, and the sanctimonious PiS nomenclature has settled in the Rzeczpospolita. This chair is a man who carried out his personal program: the Gulfstream+ family, flying a plane to a very distant place from Warsaw, about 250 km. No problem, you can change the regulation and say to yourself, "Slowly." Slowly, no problem. These are the standards of your team.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u226	Mr President, I call for respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u227	If it was just about money, if it was just about mismanagement, about Byzantium, it would be part of the problem, but at the same time the Supreme Administrative Court's judgment is not being enforced, it is said: We don't care, simply. It's like Barei's movies. We're not gonna execute a court order. It's dangerous. The same at the previous session of the Sejm Vice-Marshal of the Sejm came out here and filed a motion, said that we would not ask questions. Why ask about Westerplatte? Why ask about the takeover of this piece of land by the state, about taking away this piece of land from the city of Gdansk? Why ask questions? What's the debate for? Why discuss it in Parliament? It's moving, the lack of respect for the law, the consent is moving. Somewhere in Poland, the court gives judgment on the application of the prosecutor's office that for beating up a spouse you can get a sentence in the form of social work. In Bialystok, a horde can come out against the manifesting people, which exposes them, beat them up and do a hate show. We just figured that out. We have come to the point of disregard for law, disregard for customs, disregard for elementary modesty. I hope that we will all treat these facts as consisting of one coherent whole, the whole ruin of the Republic, which should be the highest value for us. It's time to rethink it all and bill it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u228	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to make a statement on a very important issue for all Poles and Poles, small ones and large ones, namely on the impact of the environment on human health. Unfortunately, it's not good. As the definition states, the environment is a general element of the revived and inanimate, both natural and man-made activities. There has been quite a degradation of the ecosystem, deterioration of air, water, soil, sculptures of land, landscape. Unfortunately, the reaction to this is not good. We have lost a great deal of EU funds to protect the environment, everything I have just said, and really human life and health depend on what these air, water and food are. Air pollution is smog. There are smog alarms, but there is a great lack of any education in this field, so that every Pole knows about it and has a meter at home. It is well known that children are the most vulnerable. You have to have air purifiers in kindergartens, schools, crèches - here and now as soon as the heating season starts. Education, education and education again. It all takes a lot of money. The heavy weight has been transferred to the shoulders of local governments. There were no measures behind this. Every Pole and every Polish woman has the right to know what's threatening them. It's not just the air where we have PM2.5 and PM10. PM2.5, once it's in the system, it's never gonna come out. It causes very many serious diseases such as asthma, cancer, bronchitis, allergies, cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, which very often lead to death. What happens during exposure to adverse environmental factors also affects the health of the child. Therefore, we have many children with severe genetic defects, which are created under the influence of environmental factors. It's not just air. It is also organic food, i.e. what we eat, the elimination of fertilizers, pesticides, the need for bio-certificates for many crops. Use of artificial dyes. Kids love colorful candy, colorful drinking. As they are stained with natural factors, it's fine, but if they are artificial chemical dyes, they certainly do not add health. Finally, the last piece. I said - from a bird's eye view, because time is little - about air and food. Another thing is water. It is the basis of how the human body functions. The maximum person can drink 1 and 1.5 l per hour. It should not exceed these limits, because it will lead to the so-called. Water damage, but about 2 l a day each of us should drink. Aren't we gonna lose water in a minute? Our rivers are drying up. Many cities have water shots in these driest rivers. This climate, which we are watching, quite crazy - violent storms, storms, fires destroying both our homes and our farms - is the result of adverse environmental activities, which have been conducted for many, many years, of course. But that's what you need money for. It is awful that we have lost money for this, that there will be no next allocation of funds from the European Union that would allow for little improvement. We really are black, gray, I don't know what to call it, a stain in Europe. The election programme of the Civic Coalition and the 6th of Schetin - these are the most important points - is the point where the focus is on environmental protection. From my point of view, the effects of adverse environmental factors are the sick children I see on cribs. Many people ask me for medical help and I know that often the diseases that these people have are related to the fact that the state of the environment is so bad. These matters should always be a priority for the government and will certainly be in the future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u230	Thank you very much, Member. And I invite Mr Lucjan Silence, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I make my statement on behalf of Polish pharmacists. In view of the numerous speeches made by the Chief Pharmacy Chamber, I would like to ask you about the possibility of speeding up the work on the pharmaceutical profession law. According to the Supreme Pharmacy Chamber, since 2016, there has been a team appointed by the Minister of Health and there has been an opportunity to regulate legal issues related to the profession of pharmacist. The proposed regulation is intended to cover the issue of self-employed work of more than 8 thousand. pharmacists whose rights have been radically reduced. It should be noted that in accordance with the current Article. 2 of the Act of 6 September 2001. The pharmaceutical law during the hours of the pharmacy's operation should include a pharmacist responsible for running the pharmacy, in quotes: the head of the pharmacy. As a result of recent interpretations of the rules in force, this situation is seen as a deprivation of pharmacists' rights arising from their right to pursue their profession. The problem presented is that patients will be hindered from accessing medicines, as in the short term there will be a very important reduction in the working time of public pharmacies, corresponding to the number of pharmacists who have an adequate internship, which will make it impossible for the on-call pharmacies to perform on holidays, Saturdays and Sundays. In view of the situation presented, the appeal of the Supreme Pharmacy Chamber should be supported and effective action should be taken to refer the draft law on the profession of pharmacist to public consultation and then to adopt a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-sejm-85-1.u232	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. (...) The young people we have trained for years... we have put their weapons in their hands, will they passively watch or be able to drive Germans without resistance to the Reich? If we don't give a signal to fight, the Communists will beat us to it. Then, of course, people will believe that we wanted to stand at our feet with guns. The meeting shall be adjourned by 9 August 2019 at the latest. 15. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 02]]
