ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u1	I open the seventy-fifth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Robert Dowhan to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In February this year, Zbigniew Błaszczak, Senator of the 2nd term, member of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, died and 15 March Our colleague Wiesław Kilian, senator of the current 9th term. He was also a senator of the 8th term and a Member of the V and VI Sejm. During his term of office, he was Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and member of the Committee on National Defence. I ask you to celebrate a minute of silence in the memory of the dead senators. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[May they rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Dear Senators, tomorrow morning at 7.30 a.m., there will be a Mass in the Seym Chapel in behalf of the late Senator Wiesław Kilian. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its 70th meeting on 15 March 2019 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act on the Amendment of the Law. Telecommunications Law and some other laws, to the Act on the Amendment of the Law on Inland Navigation, the Law on the Organisation of the Fish Market and the Law on Maritime Fisheries. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the first 70th meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I inform you that the minutes of the seventy-second and seventy-third Senate sitting in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items 4 to 6 be considered, 8 to 12 and 17 of the draft agenda, despite the fact that the committee's reports to these items were submitted at a later date than those laid down in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of consideration of the eleventh point, i.e. the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project, signed in Katowice on 11 December 2018, and its consideration as second point, as well as a change in the order of examination of point 12, i.e. Act on the termination of the agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland on legal protection and legal assistance in civil, family and criminal matters, signed in Helsinki on 28 May 1980, and its consideration as a third point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union and consider it as item 17 of the agenda, after information from the Constitutional Tribunal; the Law on the promotion of scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund and to consider this item as the 18th agenda; a law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of an agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union and to consider this item as item 19 of the agenda; the Law on the rules of operation of certain financial market entities in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union and consider it as a item on the 20th agenda; the Act amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws and consider it as a point of the 21st agenda; the Law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the Law on Measurements and consider this item as item twenty-second of the agenda; law on the rules for determining the order in which Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland will be filled in for the term of office of 2019 and considering this item as item twenty-third of the agenda; law amending the Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor and certain other laws and consider it as item twenty-four of the agenda; amendment of the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives and consider this item as item twenty-five of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 70th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that in the absence of proposals of a legislative nature to point one, i.e. to the second reading of the draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of the death of Prof. Zbigniew Religion, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. After the resolution has been adopted, the session will be adjourned until 2.30 p.m. During the break at 12.00, the exhibition will be opened by Master Religa. A man, a doctor, a politician. This ceremony will be attended by the President of the Republic of Poland. At 12.30 I invite you upstairs, to room 217, for a meeting devoted to the memories of Professor Zbigniew Religa. Tomorrow we resume the session at 9:00 a.m. We will start by considering the point concerning the resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Mining and Steel Academy in Krakow. Immediately after considering this item, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. We will then proceed with the examination of the information of the Constitutional Court. Tomorrow, i.e. On 21 March, we will also consider the following items on the agenda: item 9 - Act amending certain laws relating to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data; paragraph 14 Second reading of the draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and certain other laws; paragraph 17. The law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. From 12 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. there will be a break Of course, I'm talking about tomorrow. It will be announced at the opening of the exhibition in Mexico and Poland: a common road. General Władysław Sikorski's visit to Mexico in 1942. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform you senators that, following the preparation of the committee's reports, the order will be supplemented by points: the law on amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war repression and post-war repression and some other laws; the law on amending the law on public roads. The committee's meetings on these matters are scheduled for tomorrow morning. Dear Senators, the Committee on Family, Senior Policy and Social Policy announces the fifth edition of the competition. I encourage all senators whose family and paternity matters are at their heart to join in this competition in their electoral districts. You will find the invitation and information about the competition on your desktops. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin to consider the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of the death of Prof. Zbigniew Religion. Hello, Mrs. Anna Wajszczuk-Religion, the wife of the Professor. I'd like to welcome you very warmly, Doctor. [[Applause]] Welcome to your daughter, Mrs Margaret Religa. Hello, ma'am. [[Applause]] Hello, Professor Grzegorz Religa's son. Hello, Doctor. [[Applause]] Welcome to the Professor's grandkids and other invited guests. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] The draft resolution under consideration was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print no. 1089. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorised representative of the applicants, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Family Professor Zbigniew Religion! All of you, ladies and gentlemen! I think it's a good idea to start by saying that with some surprise, we've noticed it's been ten years since your professor's not with us. It gives me the impression, at least personally, of how time is speeding. But it's also an opportunity to... after all, there are a lot of people among us who knew Professor Zbigniew Religa, meet him, experience his greatness personally. This is not always the case with such anniversary resolutions, and maybe even rare. Therefore, today we remember a man who, on the one hand, is history and, on the other hand, is also the present, is our own, in any case many of us, personal experience. Therefore, I do not hide that for me personally the presentation of this draft resolution, which was signed by numerous senators from all groups present here, regardless of the party colours, is a special experience. Professor Zbigniew Religa is a character who doesn't need to be described in a very broad way because of what I just said. He is undoubtedly a great man, great in all dimensions and in all functions, in his activities, in the scope of his actions. Of course, it's a doctor, a surgeon, a cardiac surgeon, a transplantologist. I think if he asked him, he'd be talking about himself as a surgeon. It was his basic specialty, and even when he was doing chest surgery, heart surgery, for a long time he didn't have a formal qualification as a cardiosurgeon. And this also shows that it was simply a very versatile man and going beyond the formal framework of the place where he was located. He's a man who's always had courage in surgery, but he's brave enough to care for a sick person who trusts him with his health and life. Taking up further, numerous positions in the healthcare administration, in different places This will be in detail in the resolution. But also later, in politics, he retained that quality of courage. He courageously formulated his thoughts, not always suited to the place where he was allowed to speak them. He sneaked out of such party-political divisions and often went out. in front of those who tried to be politically correct, whatever that means. He formulated various courageous projects, some of which were successful, others were not, but undoubtedly he encouraged others to think, to decide, to think more courageously about what decisions are needed. While also performing these highest functions in the country, including the Minister of Health, as in all his medical life, but also in the life of the administrator in the health service, he always placed the well-being of the sick, the well-being of patients in the first place. And you could say that that was actually the size of it, that it wasn't really looking at anything on the side, whether it was a matter of a single sick person's decision, or a decision on the administration of the health care facility he was running, or When he was Minister difficult negotiations with different organisations, e.g. health workers threatening to strike, threatening to interrupt the continuity of their services. Always in the first place and uncompromisingly placed just what is, you can say, one of the main maxims leading to the pursuit of the profession of doctor: salus aegroti suprema lex esto is or should be the highest law. And it seems that's exactly what we'll all remember him for. The silhouette of Professor Zbigniew Religion may be closer to many people who have not come into contact with him personally, thanks to a film that has somehow disseminated his person. It seems that this memory has a chance to be much wider than before. It should also be said that there are objective reasons to consider him one of the greatest, most outstanding figures in the history of Polish medicine, as well as in the history of Polish politics. Ladies and gentlemen, a handful of information concerning Professor Zbigniew Religion is included in the draft resolution. So that right now, I'm going to let myself read that text. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 10th anniversary of the death of Prof. Zbigniew Religion. On 8 March 2019 marks the 10th anniversary of the death of Prof. Zbigniew Religion, a great man, a surgeon, a pioneer of the Polish heart transplant. Born on 16 December 1938 in the village of Miedniewice nad Sucha near Żyrardów. He obtained a certificate of maturity in 1956 at the Warsaw Junior High School No. 1 in Warsaw. Bolesława Limanowski, and after studying at the Faculty of Medicine at the Medical Academy in Warsaw, completed post-graduate internship and military service in 1966, he started working at the Wolski Hospital in Warsaw, where he worked until 1980, gaining specialization in the field of surgery. During that time he was also on a scholarship to Mercy Medical Center in Long Island and then studied in vascular surgery and cardiosurgery, among others. at the Sinai-Grace Hospital in Detroit. Between 1980 and 1984, he worked at the Cardiosurgery Clinic of the Institute of Cardiology in Warsaw, and since 1984 he led the Department and Clinic of Cardiosurgery of the Provincial Centre for Cardiology in Zabrze. It was there that on 15 November 1983 the team led by him performed the first successful heart transplant in Poland. Between 1989 and 1991 he led the Clinic of Cardiosurgery at the Central Clinical Hospital of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Warsaw. From 1996 to 1999 he was the rector of the Silesian Medical Academy. He has been a national specialist in cardiosurgery since 1998. In 1998 he became the head of the 2nd Cardiosurgery Clinic and in 2001 the director of the Institute of Cardiology in Warsaw. In the same year, he performed the first injection into the heart of a new blood vessel. By gaining the heights of professional knowledge and skills, he was always sensitive to another person. At the end of his life, he spoke of his conversation with the mother of the deceased heart donor, which he transplanted in 1983: "It was very sad to dispel the hopes of a mother who believed that her son would recover. The truth about his condition was a shock to her. It was a tough conversation, but she taught me a lot. The woman finally accepted the painful truth and said that if her child was dead, let his heart save someone else. This decision was made by tears. She was sad and dramatic, but at the same time she was really right. My optimism and my faith in man have aroused in me. The surgery itself lasted five hours. I didn't have much trouble with her. So much for Professor Zbigniew Religa. Over the course of his professional life, he combined help for the sick with his scientific work, published, developed several patents, gained further degrees. In 1995 the President of the Republic of Poland gave him the title of Professor of Medical Sciences. Among the most important areas of his professional and scientific activities were, of course, heart and lung transplantation, but also surgical treatment of heart failure and pulmonary embolism, clinical application of the artificial heart and the creation of a Polish biological valve and a prototype of an artificial heart. In 1991 Prof. Zbigniew Religa established the Foundation for the Development of Cardiosurgery, which deals with the implementation of innovative methods of treating heart diseases in clinical practice, as well as scientific and research activities and carries out training and scholarship activities for Polish and foreign medical personnel. Since 1989, he has been active in politics: in 1993 and 2001 (2005) he was a Polish senator, since 2007 a Member of the Sejm, and in 2005 and 2007 a Minister of Health. Prof. Zbigniew Religa died in Warsaw on 8 March 2009. In recognition of merit he was honored with many honors: PhDs of honoris causa numerous universities, many decorations Among them in 2008 in recognition of outstanding merits for the Republic of Poland, and in particular for the development of cardiosurgery, for outstanding achievements in public and public activities, also the Order of the White Eagle. Prof. Zbigniew Religa served the sick with his entire professional and political life. As a scientist, he worked on new treatments, as a doctor with unprecedented energy, courage, and enthusiasm, trying to save even the hardest of the sick, as a politician, primarily seeking a health care system that gives better protection to patients. In his actions, modest and direct, he respected all who surrounded him, regardless of their position, at the same time strongly opposed subjective and objective administrative and human constraints, showing uncompromising attitude towards the evil that struck the sick. In adopting this resolution, the Senate is convinced that Prof. Zbigniew Religa will forever remain in the grateful memory of many friends and co-workers, and above all of the next generations of patients. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u3	At present, senators may submit a request to the authorised representative of applicants from a place lasting no more than one minute. There are no calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of the death of Prof. Zbigniew Religion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 82 senators voted. They were all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 10th anniversary of the death of Prof. Zbigniew Religion. Please approach Dr. Anna Wajszczuk-Religion. I'd like to present your resolution to the Senate. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] At 12:00 p.m., I invite the senators to the opening of the "Master of Religa" exhibition. A man, a doctor, a politician. Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, will celebrate this ceremony. Around 12.30 in room 217 will be held a meeting devoted to the memories of Prof. Zbigniew Religa, to which I invite you very cordially. Dismissed until 2:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 26 to 14 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let's resume the session. We proceed to the second agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project, signed in Katowice on 11 December 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1105 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1105 A and 1105 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Piotr Wacha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A committee meeting on this matter was held yesterday. The Commission was chaired by Senator Waldemar Slugocki, and the government represented and answered the questions of Minister Piotr Naimski, who at the same time... His services provided information material on the Baltic Pipe project, which explained many different details and was a very helpful material. There was a discussion. It focused on questions about the functioning of our energy sphere in the field of natural gas, liquefied gas, the possibility and degree of independence from the supply of gas from the East after the implementation of the projects in question, the energy balance in the field of gas and gas demand. The Minister also spoke about the previous agreement concerning the division of disputed territorial waters between Poland and Denmark. So it was an interesting meeting. No one spoke against this project, actually the other way around. Finally, the application for the ratification act was unanimously supported by the senators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u6	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u7	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Commission has dealt with the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project, signed in Katowice on 11 December 2018. The purpose of the Act is to agree to ratify the agreement on the Baltic Pipe project signed in Katowice. That's what we've been talking about. The aim of the Act is to create a legal framework for the preparation and implementation of infrastructure connecting the gas transmission system between Poland and the Norwegian Continental Shell. During the committee, the Foreign Minister, Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, was present, and you were also present with a representative of the Government for Energy, Mr Piotr Naimski, who answered the short, technical questions in a comprehensive manner. There were no voices of disapproval for the presented, comprehensively explained project of gas transmission by the offshore pipeline. All doubts were clarified, all issues on which the senators at the committee meeting had reservations or information questions. The Commission unanimously supports the proposed law and asks the High House to adopt it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u8	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Jackowski reporting. There you go. Please specify which of the rapporteurs is the question addressed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm asking you a question for Senator Pekkis. Mr. Senator, did the committee's meeting mention how long this proposed pipeline would pass through the territorial waters of the Kingdom of Denmark or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u10	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u11	Technically, there was no question of the number of kilometers. However, there was a question or a problem that existed until recently, until the territorial dispute between the Polish People's Republic and the Kingdom of Denmark was clarified, concerning the so-called. a gray area around the island of Bornholm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u12	Are there any further questions? No questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy, the Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Piotr Naimski, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure, and Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are with us. Do the ministers wish to speak? Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It will be very short because the information about the project was actually presented in three committees, I do not want to take time here. I would like to thank the senators for, you can say, unanimous support for this project so far. This is a strategic project for Poland. In 2022 we will connect the Norwegian shelf to Poland by pipeline and this, together with the extended terminal for the receipt of liquefied gas in Świnoujście, will allow us to completely change the sources and directions of supply of this raw material to Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u14	Thank you, Minister. Would Minister Wawrzyk also like to take the floor? ? You're resigning. Questions for the Minister. Senator Jackowski and Senator Augustine report. Senator Jackowski first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I congratulate the Minister on his effectiveness because we have been hearing about this project for many, many years, but it is now entering a hot period of implementation. Would the Minister like to present some technical data to the High House, i.e. what is the total cost of this project on our side, the Republic of Poland, and what is the deadline for implementation? Well, it's the date of 2022, but is this going to be closer to the beginning or the end of this year? And then, what is the course of this pipeline? Can there be any problems outside the Kingdom of Denmark of a treaty nature or problems from the point of view of international law with regard to the conduct of this installation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u16	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Firstly, when it comes to problems or problems with the Kingdom of Denmark, the answer is no, we have no problems with the Kingdom of Denmark. This is demonstrated by the ratification agreement that the High House has tried today. Secondly, as far as the cost of the entire investment is concerned, I can only say in general. We do not make public approximations, because we are before signing contracts, before selecting performers. The funding that the project has received under the CEF programme from the European Union of EUR 266 million is about 30% of the cost, which is, you could say, a lot. However, these 30% We serve with such accuracy... Well, that's a plus minus that. Cost sharing between investors The Polish Gaz-System and Danish Energinet are about halfway through. That's kind of how it goes down. Gas-System builds a pipeline under the bottom of the Baltic Sea up to the Danish shore, and Energinet builds a large press on the Danish shore, which is needed, expands the system in the Kingdom of Denmark, and combines the Danish system with the Norwegian transmission system in the North Sea. In this latter case, the Intergovernmental Agreement between Denmark and Norway has been signed and is already approved. As regards the course of this submarine part of the Baltic Pipe project, the pipeline route begins in Poland, on the Polish shore, leads towards the island of Bornholm, passes through the exclusive economic zone of Poland and Denmark, as well as partly through the Danish territorial waters around Bornholm, then through the exclusive economic zone of Sweden and finally again Danish waters in the approach to the Jutland Peninsula. As regards our contacts with Sweden, whose administration is also involved here, a request for environmental permits has already been submitted to the relevant Swedish authorities, and on 26 March, next week, I will have the pleasure of visiting Stockholm and talking to Swedish ministers on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u18	The senator continues to ask questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u19	Minister, I already have this map from Senator Piecha, but from this map it is clear that two pipelines will cross, I mean... [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: More than 2, Mr. Senator.]] Yeah, more... But I'm particularly interested in Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2, what this case looks like... Because from this map, it would appear that this intersection has to... well, geometrically speaking, coming out of it...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u20	Mr. Senator, it's like this submarine stretch of Baltic Pipe is going to cut through 17 different types of infrastructure at the bottom of the Baltic Sea. These are power cables, these are telecommunications cables, these are also gas pipelines. As for the pipelines For now, they're at the bottom of 2 or 2 threads of the first Nord Stream, and maybe they'll be two more, or maybe one more, Nord Stream 2. And all these intersections are subject to technical agreements between infrastructure owners, so it is in law and in practice. These agreements determine the responsibility of the owners of both infrastructure, and in total they serve to ensure that these elements can be insured, because companies that provide insurance, international companies, demand such agreements. And that's why these agreements are being concluded, because basically you could say that there are no international regulations on this. On the technical side, it is not a problem, in practice it is well known how it is constructed, engineers know it, it is not even particularly expensive, and examples of such solutions are numerous even on the Baltic.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u21	One last question, Mr. Senator, in this series. Then another reporter. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And my last question: are we already providing the Norwegian side with regard to the long-term supply of this raw material? What is the situation in this regard? And another question for Minister Wawrzyk, representing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Recently we have heard about some tensions in Polish-Norwegian relations against the background of the Polish consul's cancellation. In the opinion of the government, does this not pose any potential risks to these good relations generally between both our countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u23	As regards the supply of gas to Poland by this newly built pipeline, this issue is solved by Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry. PGNiG already has a large portfolio of LNG supply contracts to Świnoujście, but at the same time Well, I guess that's all I'm allowed to say. It is in the process of talking to suppliers on the Norwegian North shelf. And from this shelf, up to 10 billion m3 of gas will come from PGNiG's own production. PGNiG designs that in 2023 it will be able to produce itself on the shelf, extract 2.5 billion m3, which is already a significant part. As far as the general situation is concerned, the Norwegian side shows a long-term prospect of maintaining natural gas extraction on the shelf. So there's no danger here, for example. in the form of exhaustion of Norwegian deposits in the North Sea. If I may overtake what Minister Wawrzyk will say, I would add that, from our relations with the Norwegian Government, with the Norwegian side in view of the implementation of Baltic Pipe, there are no problems, and what is happening in parallel between our countries and what is sometimes troubling, in no way affects this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u24	Thank you. Now you're asking Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u25	About what the Minister said at our committee meeting and now in response 'Cause when my friend asked me about the difficulty in cutting off Nord Stream, I thought I'd give up on the questions. Instead of dispelling my doubts, it has fueled them. After all, we know that Poland belongs to the biggest opponents of the construction of Nord Stream 2. The tension in this case is high, and it's on a global scale, United States And there is no doubt that this is also a stand on the side of Poland and Polish interests, so we are in this, wanting not to, put in a penalty. So there's a big argument. Of course, it's also about huge money. Minister, my question is, are there any conversations yet? Are there any pre-emptive assurances that this investment will simply not be stuck here at the intersection with the pipeline? Since this is not governed by any international agreement, it actually depends on two contracting parties, if they want to make an appointment. And if they don't want to, then what?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u26	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As I said, it is such that the interconnecting of infrastructure are contractual issues, governed by contractual terms between the owners of this infrastructure. The owners in this case are Gaz-System on the one hand and Nord Stream 1 AG and Nord Stream 2 AG on the other hand, 2 separate companies. All I can say is that the contacts between these companies are already there.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u28	Thank you. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two technical questions, and one geographical question, I would say. Technically, they're like that. This pipeline will be carried out for 2.5 years, from the second quarter of 2020 until the end of 2022. Are we gonna make it? I'm asking because we have here, for example. A crowd built on the Baltic Sea. Have we ever built this kind of venture, including a force station on the Baltic Sea? Question two: where will this pipeline enter, or in the vicinity of Świnoujście, or in Niechorz? In Niechorzu, it's on one of the maps. I think it's just the beach for now. How are we gonna distribute it later? What's in Niechorz? And the third question is: is the extension of this part in Denmark also included in this agreement? Well, if they don't expand it there, we won't get anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u30	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u31	Okay, one at a time. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It is that the entire Baltic Pipe project consists of several parts. These parts are listed in the information we provided. It looks roughly like there's an episode in the North Sea linking the Norwegian transmission system with Denmark, there's a section in Denmark, there's a big crowd. It is not, Mr. Senator, in the Baltic Sea, it is on land, on Danish land and then there is a submarine section of the pipeline under the Baltic Sea. The last part is an extensive transmission system, adapted to the adoption of these 10 billion m3 gas from the north, located in Poland, in Poland. As far as deadlines are concerned, I can only say that today, with a very high degree of accuracy, as per a week, we are keeping the schedule that was set for this whole investment 2.5 years ago, and we hope that this will be the end of it. Here, the question is, what does 2022 mean. For 2022 we mean 1 October 2022. That's when the so-called one begins. the gas year. It's all the gas contracts for next year, contracts, etc. That's why there's a very precise date here. As regards the time allocated to the construction of the part of the submarine pipeline, this is indeed the period from the second quarter of 2020 to the year 2022. It's two years, it's two seasons. Theoretically, it's an episode like this. It's a two hundred and seventy-seven kilometers long. It could be arranged in 3 months. This amount of time is important due to the weather and various circumstances that may happen. It's our duty to finish this investment on time. When it comes to bringing this pipeline to the mainland in Poland, it is also a task of Gaz-System. This fits into this fifth part of the entire investment. I can say that although the most spectacular part of the entire project is, of course, the submarine part under the Baltic Sea, more attention from the investor requires what is to be done on land in Poland than what is associated with the submarine section, which, contrary to appearances after the preparatory period is technically quite simple to perform. This large pressing station, which is necessary in this whole system, is built by Energinet, by Danes, with about 60% of the cost of building this pressing plant on the Gas-System side. This investment agreement between Gas-System and Energinet assumes And that's the answer to the senator's next question. Some inctim, i.e. the performance by both investors, the partners of the tasks which are imposed on them.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u32	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u33	High Izbo! Minister! Many of your statements show that this is, of course, not only a commercial solution, but also a political solution concerning, say, security. Don't you think that you are making too hasty statements about the market aspect at the moment, proving that we will no longer benefit from Gazprom? What if it turns out that once we're safe, Gazprom will significantly lower the price of gas? Doesn't that look like the old Gierek who yelled at the whole world that he wouldn't be doing anything there anymore, so everyone increased the price? So how will this be commercial after 2023? Minister, what is the profitability of this solution compared to liquid gas from the United States? From such a slim balance, we will have an excess of this gas after such an increase in safety. Do we already have contractors who want to pick up this gas, e.g. Visegrad Group? Because the latest news proves that the Czechs aren't interested in buying this gas, whether it's from the fields... Unless it's commercial, but, as you know, contracts are sometimes stiff. So there's a question about securing the gas reception.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u34	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u35	Mr. Senator, in your question, it sounds like a problem from the previous era. Well, the era... [[Yeah, yeah, 'cause Gierek was yelling, I'm sorry...]] Would you allow the senator? When I speak from the previous era, I mean the epoch when we dealt with long-term contracts for large amounts of gas with a take or pay clause, a clause that actually ruled out directing this gas to other customers. That kind of contract. this is a Jamaican contract that ends in 2022 and we will not prolong it. As far as contracts in the new era are concerned, these are contracts which do not contain such clauses, either concerning the place of supply or the final customer, or regarding the obligation to receive the gas ordered. Therefore, here with excess or so-called. Contracing and that's the phrase from the previous era. There's no problem. When it comes to Poland's gas demand, I will say two words about it. This year's demand it's about 18 billion m3 of gas and it's growing, it's quite stable, but quite clearly and rapidly growing. We predict that in 2023, 2024 demand will be at a level of maybe 22... we'll see, in any case, it will be around 21 billion m3. If we count what we can use in 2023 as a result of the current investments, we will see that it will be 10 billion m3 from the North Sea pipeline and 7.5 billion m3 from the Świnoujście gasport, which we are expanding, and that we will maintain 4.5 billion, because this is the projection of maintaining domestic extraction... This will balance with the demand of Poland. Since we also build interconnectors with our neighbours, i.e. system connections, with Slovakia, with Lithuania, we plan to build them with Ukraine and with the Czech Republic, when we intend to And we've got him. To allow our neighbours access to gas through the Polish transmission network... This actually leads us to a decision that has already been made, i.e. that in the long term we will build a floating terminal to receive liquefied gas in Gdansk. So that on this side there is no danger. There's no market threat either. It is so that when these supply opportunities from different suppliers, from different sources will be secured, then gas in Poland will have a European market price. Of course, Gazprom sells its gas in Europe, apart from Poland and other countries that are monopolistically dependent, on the market, because it has to compete there with gas supplied from Norway or North Africa. When we complete our investments, we will be in exactly the same situation as the rest of Europe, therefore the price of gas in Poland, from any direction, will simply decide the market. Market competition in Poland will be further assured by the supply of liquefied gas, and not only from the United States. Let us remember that we have long-term contracts with Qatar, we now have contracts with the United States, and there are still opportunities for other deliveries. Thus, these will be different sources competing in price. At the same time, we will have gas supply from the Norwegian shelf by pipeline, i.e. there will be competition between ordinary gas supplied from the shelf and liquefied gas, which is an additional advantage of the whole mechanism and the undertaking. We will have the possibility of real market competition in terms of price. And Gazprom won't be able to enter with other non-market prices. Thank you. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u36	Complement, right? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u37	I didn't get an answer to the basic question. Why are you cutting off five years in advance about possible future contracts... [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: I am not cutting off.]] ...in gas security already? So there'll be deliveries from the U.S., from the shelf. Why do you cut off the possibility of buying cheaper with supplies, say, from Russia, but not just Russia? After all, you undermine the market opportunities of the Polish economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u38	No, Mr. Senator. I don't cut any market opportunities, either present or in the future. If the market decides this... If there are cheaper sources, they may be used by customers in Poland. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about it. And let's be precise, Mr. Senator, because I'm trying to be precise. After 2022, there will be no extension of the long-term contract with Gazprom. That's it. [[And in the case of other contracts will it be?]] We don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u39	You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I, too, agree to a positive review of this bill. I'm sure I'll vote for her. I'd like to ask you something because I have information that came up on the Baltic Pipe project website... I will read: The Baltic Pipe project is a strategic infrastructure project aimed at creating a new gas supply corridor on the European market. The investment will enable the transport of gas from Norway to Danish and Polish markets as well as to end-users in neighbouring countries. I would like to ask you precisely whether other countries are supposed to benefit from the Baltic Pipe gas transmission as well. Will there be other beneficiaries? Do we now know of any interest in this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u41	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We're building opportunities for this situation. An important strategic element in terms of the creation of this possibility of gas transmission from northern Poland through Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and possibly beyond is the section that we are building between Poland and Slovakia, between Strachocina and Veľkými Kapušanmi. This is a pipeline that will be completed in 2021. He's already in construction, under construction. And it's going to have a capacity of 5 and 6 billion m3 per year. That's it. or actually a little more than Slovakia's annual gas demand. Whether the recipients in Slovakia will be interested in this, or whether the recipients in Hungary and the interconnector between Slovakia and Hungary already exists They will be interested in this, will decide, as we have said, the market.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u43	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u44	Thank you very much. Before I ask this question, I will say one word à speaking of the last sentences of the Minister. Not only does the market decide this, but also politics, and Hungary Orbán does not work with Europe in the case of international projects, but rather with Russia, so I am surprised at your last statement. I would like to ask you the following question. Currently on the shelf in Norwegian deposits we have about 500 million m3... [[Billions.]] Yes? Well, at least that's my information. [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Billionaires.]] 500 billion? [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Yes, these are billions, Senator. 500 billion.]] [[That's a low grade.]] No, I'm talking about our... No, I'm sorry. [[Let's just let it end...]] No, I'm sorry. I'm not talking about how much there is at all. I'm talking about how our licenses we have there are about 500 million m3. Until 2022. From what I know, but of course you can lead me out of my mistake, if I'm wrong, we can reach around 2.5 billion. The capacity is 10 billion. I'd like to know what we're going to do with the remaining 7.5 billion? Where's the gas coming from? And if there is such a capacity, then whether you count the possible return on this investment on the capacity of 10 billion a year or 2.5 billion, which ultimately in 2022, as far as I know, Will they be available to us from our resources that we may possibly have on this shelf? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u45	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u46	Let me say this: the market test for the entire investment was carried out both in Poland and in Denmark. And the market test came back positive for both parts. That's it. I don't want to go into the structure of the market test, but I do. When it comes to assurance or shopping... Where's the gas coming from? Of course, the gas will be contracted this time by PGNiG in a procedure called open season, i.e. in the process of securing the capacity necessary for transfer in the newly built infrastructure. Well, PGNiG made sure of that and paid for it. At the moment it is already signed and valid contract, notabene 15-year-old, because such contracts are acceptable in the European Union. So it's a long-term contract. And this contract covers... well, I don't want to give you the exact numbers here, but it covers most or much of the available capacity. And this deposit, i.e. security of capacity by PGNiG, is, of course, an important element from the point of view of PGNiG. Because if the money that has already been spent and which will be spent gradually on maintaining this capacity is to be spent for the benefit of the company, then of course these opportunities must be used. It's clear. I understand the senator's question a little differently: the point is whether this gas is available on the Norwegian shelf and whether it will be available, right? Well, he's available and available. And whatever I say, the forecasts of production or gas extraction on the Norwegian shelf make us on a perfectly safe side. As I say, in the new era, the situation at the moment is that it is rather a walk away from long-term contracts. Rather, these are medium-term purchasing contracts in terms of gas, and they vary. I mean, there's not one big contract, just to get the flexibility of those contracts there's more. A portfolio of orders or contracts is being created. We don't see any problems here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u47	Senator Comfort says he wants to supplement it. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u48	Minister, I ask in addition: could I not hear some more details and figures? [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: No.]] The previous epoch is a beautiful expression, it is stigmatizing and very politically bearing. But we're talking about the economy here, about the numbers. There is a decision, as I understand it, supported by our security, our energy independence, about buying gas, which is much more expensive today than the one who... [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: That is not true.]] I think it's easy to verify if it's more expensive... [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Easy.]] It's easy to verify. From the information I have, it's much more expensive. We have a very large and very expensive investment. We have committed ourselves to Denmark, and no one has taken it seriously for 40 years, 80% of the economic territory at issue. I would like to know what further concessions were in this agreement if they were In relation to Denmark. And I would like to hear any numbers, however, because the Minister operates in certain words, for me in the words of the boxes, at a very high level of generality, and we are talking about a very serious investment, whose details the Senators of the Republic may know, I understand, in a slightly more approximate way than the approximation that you have made to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u49	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u50	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, a few corrections first. Let's start with 80% of Denmark's economic territory. This is a misunderstanding, Senator, which I would like to explain to the House and to you. Usually, in the situation that we are dealing with between the Danish Bornholm and the Polish Coast, the areas of exclusive economic zones are divided by the so-called economic zones. the median, i.e. the division of the middle, the geographical, at the same distance from one shore and the other. Probably 40 years ago, maybe 30 years ago, the Danish side came up with the position that this median means what they have to get. Minister Lorenzo's nodding his head, but I'm about to get better. The disputed area between Denmark and Poland became whether there was an area between the median, i.e. the middle, and the border of Denmark's territorial waters on the Danish side. So, if you imagine that, the area in question was the area between the centre and the Danish coast, and actually the territorial waters border. This area has been negotiated. From this area 20% was granted to the Polish party and 80% was granted to the Danish party. This means that on the Polish side there is a primary 50% plus 20% of the dispute area. So that means we have 60%. The whole area, and the Danes 40%. And that's the reality. So that there are false rumors that spread in the public circulation of interpretation. As far as numbers are concerned, Senator, these are commercial information and commercial information. I'm simply not able to give in public. This is the first case, but also an explanation. Well, I would like to say to the senator that at the moment there is no PGNiG contract for the supply of gas by pipeline, and it is therefore difficult to talk about the price of this gas to the price of anything else, e.g. Russian gas prices. As far as LNG supply contracts are concerned, at the moment, American LNG, it's carefully said... PGNiG board members say it's over 20%, maybe up to 30%. less than the current price of Russian gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u51	Senator Comfort, for the third time in this series.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u52	Thank you. Minister, of course no one likes to be wrong. If I'm wrong, I'm very sorry. I would just like to say that it has not been so long since we had a debate in this House on the agreement with Denmark, not the one we are talking about right now. The point is, we've talked about dilation here before. And it just so happened that a government representative spoke about it, who thus defined this proportion. These are two different informations. [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: I think, Senator, that there will be an exchange of views between you and Minister Wawrzyk in a moment.]] It's possible, Minister. I am based on a sentence presented by another government representative. [[That will be explained by the senator. Now the question is... is the senator finished asking the question?]] No. [[Well, there you go.]] I'd like to refer to what you just said. [[That's the last question in this series.]] My question concerns the date 2022. If I remember correctly, it's October or November. [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: October 1.]] October 1st. I would like to know what investment decisions have been made so far, whether there is an environmental permit, whether there is a building permit at which stage all this is and whether we can be absolutely sure and calm that by 1 October 2022 this investment will be completed, especially if we take into account that in the case of Nord Steam 2 Poland was very fortunate to block Russians in various ways and prolong the investment. I would like to know if you are prepared for the counter-action of the Russians and are you sure that by 2022 you will complete this investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u53	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u54	I'll start by saying we're sure, Mr. Senator. Excuse me, senators, do any of you have this brief presentation? May I ask you to share it with Senator Pociej? It'll be easier. [[Please, Mr. Senator, it's all there.]] [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[Continue, Minister.]] There are dates, Mr. Senator, and those dates are binding. As far as environmental permits are concerned, environmental reports have been finalised. Applications were submitted this month, in March, and are dealt with by the administrative authorities in Sweden, Poland and Denmark. There is no reason to believe that this will not be completed within the deadlines set. Of course, the conditions for obtaining a building permit are different in different countries, e.g. in Denmark, an environmental permit is equivalent to a building permit, it is integrated, and elsewhere it is not. We, of course, need to adapt to local regulations, but ultimately the timetable provides for specific dates. The construction of the submarine part is planned for the second quarter of 2020. This is a schedule that, as I said, is being kept entirely, is being implemented without any delay. I dare say we'll be able to meet our deadlines in the future, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u55	You're asking Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u56	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have similar concerns as Senator Pociej. Surely the principles of the Government of Law and Justice, political formation in terms of the use of various sources of gas supply, are important and necessary, but this has been said for many, many years. I say, Minister, that in this case, as regards the so-called. the Danish and Norwegian gas case, PGNiG is extremely slow. It would be good if we had completed such investments or led to such a state that, after the fall elections this year, no one could stop it. What Mr. Pociej said about actions, e.g. Russian or various types of sphere of influence, it is very important, it must be taken into account that some difficulties may occur behind the scenes, as you, Minister, certainly know very well. Therefore, my accusation of the slowness of PGNiG's actions in these two cases. I've even noticed that if there's a commotion in the press somewhere, there's an attack on PGNiG, the president's about to show up and they're talking about Norwegian gas, they're talking about Denmark. I am convinced that certain actions could have been accelerated. Of course, this is not a direct charge to you, Minister, but you also cooperate with PGNiG in some part.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u57	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u58	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I must say that when it comes to possible reservations about the schedule of this investment, they should be directed to me and to the Gas-System or to the Gas-System and to me, not to the PGNiG. I don't oversee the PGNiG, I oversee the Gas-System. PGNiG is here, as it is said in gas slang, shipper, or supplier of gas, signing contracts, PGNiG is on the side, so to speak, the consumer of infrastructure and performing his duties, so I can say. On the other hand, with regard to the timetable that we have set up and which is being kept, the investment is going on according to him, I must tell the senator with regret that it could not be shortened. We started this 3.5 years ago, right after the election, and for a time, although not very long, we had to devote ourselves to convincing our current partners in Denmark and Norway that the Polish side is taking the issue seriously this time. I'm just the man that some of you probably know. For the third time, he is carrying out a similar project. It didn't work twice. The first time, he simply came to power in the SLD, which dismantled everything that was already ready; that was 2001. In the present case, I dare say that we are on very good track to complete this investment in 2022. All I can say here is that Poland has changed, for 25 years Poland has changed. The measure of change and depth of political transformation in Poland is, among others. the fact that in 2001 the post-communist party which dismantled the contract came to power and that the party in the Sejm is not present today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u59	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u60	Yes, it's a good thing, Minister, that this party doesn't exist, I share your opinion. Only that our team, too, you also participated, as far as I know, in, for example, sentimentally AWS, she didn't sign with Denmark, and she tried, there were two visits by Prime Minister Buzek... Other considerations have decided... [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Yes... Senator, you are wrong...]] Okay, but let's just leave it, 'cause it's not... [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski:...you are wrong fundamentally...]] [[Minister, I'm sorry...]] [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Professor Buzek ask this question.]] [[Senator Rulewski is now asking a question...]] He was, he didn't get the contract. [[Ask me a question.]] [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Done.]] No, no, there was no contract. [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Because Miller came and kicked it out.]] [[Mr. Senator, I ask you a question, the discussion will be later...]] Minister, I don't want to argue with you... [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Pity...]] The term of office of Prime Minister Buzek lasted four years, could not be fulfilled... [[Don't argue, ask me a question. Do you have a question?]] My question actually... [[Mr. Senator, the microphone.]] Sir, isn't it that the state, the government of the PiS, is absoluteizing the concept of security... [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] ...so this is a political issue? Given the fact, what is the charge against the Polish government, that companies which conclude contracts in the field of reception and construction, are state-owned companies... Then, of course, if Russia hit us, it would be a hit on the state. However, the largest European companies, including the world's largest, are not afraid of the Russians. Or should we join them? And then you shouldn't be afraid. Why such a secessionist policy on the side of Europe? This Europe, on which the success of Poland depends on the success of Gasuna and others.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u61	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u62	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I, when I hear you, am beginning to fear me. [[You're running away...]] I am starting to fear because if your view had ever won politically in Poland, Poland would have been tied to Russia for decades in terms of the supply of energy resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u63	The question is... [[I didn't get any answers at all, but there was a comment, very offensive.]] Mr. Senator, the request is that you let me say... [[Yes.]] First let me tell you, then you'll talk. Now, sir, I'm asking you to limit yourself to the questions and leave the polemics for discussion. You're welcome to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u64	There was a question, Minister, not a request for comment... [[Voice from the room: Microphone, microphone.]] The question was why big companies, which depend on the well-being of Europe, including Poland, are not afraid of Russian blockades and why Poland would not join these companies, increasing its security.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u65	Large European companies, Mr Senator, have absolutely diversified I'm going to use this word specifically: diversified The contract portfolio. And they also have diversification in terms of supply directions and infrastructure capacity for this gas supply. As a result, large European companies have the opportunity to bring and buy gas from the Norwegian shelf, from North Africa, as liquefied gas... Well, in short, they have all the possibilities. We in Poland, Mr Senator, will not yet have such opportunities by 2022. And this is an important restriction of Poland, which causes that a few years ago one of Gazprom's vice presidents was gracious to say publicly that Poland can dictate any gas price, because Poland has no alternative. [[That's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u66	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u67	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, after what I hear here from that side of the room, I am becoming increasingly afraid of the effects of a possible question. [[That's what I'm talking about, Senator...]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me.]] The question is: will we be protected in terms of diversification of sources after the performance of this contract? Aren't we gonna have to open another goal, another possibility? Besides whether this performance of the contract will simply provide us with the purchase of gas at prices, well, I would call it retail, which is at the prices of such a commercial... [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Market.]] Marketers, not... Well, is getting out of this dictatorship... These may be obvious questions, but I think we need to answer those questions. And is it possible to block this contract by a reluctant government after Don't give me that. A change of authority? Are there still any contractual penalties we'd have to pay if we had this? # As I say, don't give me God # Did they block it? And would it possibly be disheartening to such a blockage, or a second break-up, as it was in communist times?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u68	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u69	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, maybe I'll start by treating these questions. With all due respect to the senators asking these questions As a kind of exercise. And at the same time thank you, well, you can tell everyone who has so far supported and supported this project both in the Seym and in the Senate in all possible ways. It so happens that, in the case of votes which concern this project directly or indirectly, we have a situation that these are votes without votes against, and for that, I simply thank you. As for the provisions of the investment agreement, because that is what you are asking Senator Czerwiński, whether there are any penalties for failure to comply with this agreement or to withdraw from this agreement, I answer that yes, this agreement provides for penalties. They are gradual, over time they are increasing, and if, for some reason, one of the parties wanted to withdraw from the project, it would indeed be painful. At the same time, I would like to say that this project is rooted not only in the initiative of the Polish Government of Law and Justice, but also based on the decision of the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark, and is fully supported by the European Commission, which considers this project to be important for European security. This project is not only on the list of important projects, so-called. the European Union PCI list, but this project, as I said here, received significant funding from the European Union, which is also an expression of support for this project. This is a subsidy which is so important that it is also aimed at the construction itself, the construction of the route itself, and not just at its design. This is a rather unique operation of the CEF instrument. Actually, that's all I can say. Of course, we can multiply the question marks here. I will say this: and on the investor's side, and on the government's side is full awareness of a whole range of risks associated with such a large investment, including political risks. That has to be taken into account. But at the same time, I would like to say that the infrastructure owners, so to speak, with which our investors will have to communicate, also care about these agreements. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u70	You're welcome. Another... [[Mr. Marshal...]] That's the last of it, right? [[Yeah, last one.]] [[I'm still...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask you one more question. On the Baltic Pipe Project website it is reported that the project will run through the territories of 3 countries, Denmark, Sweden and Poland, and the gas transmission will start in October 2022. And I'd like to ask you about Sweden. What are the arrangements with Sweden? Do we have a deal? What part of the pipeline will go through Sweden?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u72	From the Swedish side, the pipeline will pass through the Swedish exclusive economic zone. This means that permissions remain in Swedish jurisdiction, starting with the environmental permit. As I mentioned, the application for environmental authorisation was submitted in Sweden, the Kingdom of Sweden. We don't expect any trouble from the Swedish side. From the point of view of Sweden's interests, there are no risks here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u73	Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u74	You said yourself, Minister, it's complicated. But certainly from the Polish side the policy in this area is more complicated, because This is also the question that we have been lonely in blocking Nord Stream 2 and previously in Nord Stream 1. Today only with Lithuania we act as a blocker for this investment. The question is: why did the other countries of the Union, which, say, differ in their attitude towards Gazprom, to Russia, nevertheless agree? Is it true that this was decided by the economic interest of all these European countries? Because I'm talking about the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u75	Mr. Senator, this is a matter that could probably be discussed for a long time. And it is a question of how you probably know very well about the revision of the so-called. the gas directive, which is currently being carried out in the European Union. Discussions about the shape of this amendment were long and turbulent. Finally, the compromise proposed by France and adopted by Germany was accepted. The compromise, which provides that on the territorial part of Germany Baltic pipeline run Nord Stream 2 will be covered by the third European energy package and all the rest will be subject to the agreement between the German and Russian parties. That is, you can say, a far-reaching compromise. We maintain the obvious Polish position that the entire investment is against the Polish interest. But this is a situation where, as it turns out, most Member States of the European Union have found that this compromise is more desirable than real attempts to block this investment. All that remains is to say that this Russian-German investment has a political dimension in a clear sense, and that the policy expressed in this way is a policy which undermines ally solidarity in Europe, not only at the level of the European Union but also at the level of the North Atlantic Alliance. This is the sowing of discord between allies. And in this sense, I regret to say that this is the success of Russian politics.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u76	Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm sure this will be... Here I am, here, Minister! [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Ah, yes, yes.]] This will probably be what you are calling for again, because the discussion at the meeting of our committee, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, has shown that we will certainly all vote as you have said by appealing. So questions are often merely an expression of concern and nothing else. I'd like to ask you a question. Maybe I'm sorry about that. For details: are we taking part in the realization, i.e. in this construction consortium, which will carry out this investment? Will they only do this to Western companies?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u78	Mr. Senator, the answer to this question has several elements, because there is no single contractor at all. It's like in the land part, oh, I'll say it like that. In a huge way whether they will actually only work, so I can say at the moment, Polish entities. And as far as the submarine part is concerned, we don't have companies with experience in laying submarine pipelines. In the world of such companies, specialized, there is literally a countable amount. And I can say that most of the major companies, in a global sense, at the first request made by the investor, i.e. Gaz-System, have reported their willingness to participate in this investment. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u79	Thank you very much. I don't think there's any more... Oh, Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u80	I remind you, Mr. Marshal, that I have asked a question addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. And I would just like to get an answer to that question. And it was about... Not to Minister Naimski. To Minister of Foreign Affairs. It concerned diplomatic issues of Polish-Danish relations after the situation with the consul in Norway.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u81	Good. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Now we're going to ask Minister Lorenzo to respond to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! There is no problem in Polish-Norwegian relations. The consul case is over, the relationship is back to what it was before the event.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u83	Thank you for your very brief answer. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u84	Well, I understand that I'm sorry that I upset Minister Naimski with these political questions, but he answered... But it is indeed your competence, by all means. So I'm sorry. I'm still digging up this issue for me because, of course, I'm going to vote in favour of this bill, even if I say so, outrageous. I mean, why did we stay in this game? I do not agree that there are only political elements in it. Lonely, with Lithuania. For my instincts as an engineer... I know what chemistry is in Europe, what chemistry is in Poland and how much it needs huge energy, how it affects agriculture, our Polish agriculture. Expensive fertilizers, supplies... However, isn't it that we've been too reluctant in this position to block commercial contracts? With Gazprom on the other hand? [[Well, Tusk couldn't make it, Mr. Senator. Well...]] But I'm not Tusk. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u85	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Here's what I'm gonna say. It does not matter what other countries think when it comes to the Polish national interest. Polish national business is absolutely... [[Bravo, Minister!]] [[Applause]] And it doesn't matter what other people think, how they change their minds. We ensure that the Polish national interest in each field is respected, including in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u88	Very nice formula, as the senator would say... [[Voice from the room: Comforter.]] ...It is only that energy security of Europe, including Poland, does not depend solely on Poland. It also depends on European legislation. Minister Naimski has shown us here that there is a possibility of change in the context, say, of a new, third European energy directive. In this way, you are provoking the question: are we just going to secure our energy supply without paying attention to how the other European partners will guarantee it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u89	In preparing for today's debate, the senator certainly wished to familiarize himself with the course of the discussions that were and which concerned this third gas directive. And I'm sure you know that if it hadn't been for the clear position of the Polish government and for the diplomatic action aimed at other countries, this directive would have already been adopted in an extremely unfavourable version for us. So the fact that this proposal, mentioned by Minister Naimski, appeared, is only the effect of Polish stubbornness and a clear negative position. This shows the europeanness of our policy in this area, which unfortunately lacked, as the senator said here, the previous coalition with Prime Minister Tusk at the head. There was simply no such consequence in action. We cannot refuse this consequence, on the contrary. As I said, this compromise is also our success and it shows that we have been able to put our demands hard, defend our rights and convince others to block this directive. If it had not been for the coalition built by Poland, this directive, as I said, would have been adopted in this form quite non-European. As Minister Naimski said, this is not a gas pipeline directed only on the issue of energy security of Poland. As was said in Minister Naimski's speech a few minutes ago, this is a gas pipeline that is intended to secure gas supplies to other countries as well. Hence the interconnectors that Minister Naimski was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u90	Thank you. Are there any more questions? [[Senator Czerwinski.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u91	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, it will be short. Minister, even here in this room, there's been false information about the ratio of division. I'm talking about the previous agreement with Denmark on this disputed territory. Minister, why do you think this false information is being replicated? And little that they are duplicated is still drawn from them, of course, erroneous conclusions. Perhaps the Minister could explain how it's done, that you can get a division like this, 60%. Up to 40%. Because the other side can't accept that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u92	Let me put it this way: in the last eight months, we have dealt with a very good case, some of which have not been dealt with in eight years. Countries such as Germany and Sweden have agreed to a median line with slight derogations from it. The median line mentioned by Minister Naimski is the standard in the Baltic for the division of zones of this kind. And we've scored several times better than these countries. And that is the measure of our effectiveness, also negotiating. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u93	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: ) Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am very pleased that this project, which is so necessary for our energy security, is becoming more and more realistic. At this moment, I believe, in this House, we will take an important decision to ratify this agreement, which is already giving the green light, from the international law side, to move slowly to the implementation phase. I would very much like to thank Minister Piotr Naimski from this point of view, whom I remember perfectly well from the time of Prime Minister Buzek's reign when this project was first taking such a very real shape. And I would like to remind you that the gas agreement with Norway was signed by Prime Minister Buzek, I remember that very well. I was... There's no Senator Rulewski. He was questioning it. He was also a Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. And what we're talking about here was a loud case at the time. However, the fact is that Leszek Miller's government has withdrawn from this project, which caused quite a lot of discussion in the media at that time on the state's energy policy. I'd like to point out... And I also understand some sensitivity in the statements of Minister Naimski, because we are dealing with a project of strategic importance, a project which is fundamental from the point of view of our energy security, but also from the point of view of national security at all. So that thank you, Minister, that you would nevertheless like to bring up the issue of the implementation of this project to the High House. And you did it in a way that shows the great determination of the current government to implement the diversification of energy policy. I'd like to say that, as it seems, this project... And I will refer to the words of Minister Naimski that this is the third approach to this project. Each time Minister Naimski is personally involved in this project. I would like to wish the Minister and the whole government, in fact, all of them. to us, citizens of the Republic of Poland, for this project to be carried out and for Poland to have diversified energy sources. Because we already know very well that although we are a member of the European Union, at the so-called. European solidarity on energy security and joint action by the European Union as a whole on this issue cannot be counted. And that is why it is important for such projects to be carried out, because they will determine the possibility of functioning of the Polish state, the Polish economy and social life. Because it is no secret that we are dependent on the supply of gas, because as far as domestic production is concerned, it provides little protection for our needs. So, Minister, keep it up and hopefully this project will be carried out in this regard. It is also important to bear in mind that various voices will also appear in the discussion around this project, which in a sense Please understand me. They may reflect the various lobbying that may occur in the context of such projects. So the point is that, considering the whole issue, we focus on substantive matters, on the national interests of the Polish state and on our national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is always nice to begin your speech with the last words of the previous speaker. Senator Jackowski just said that we should follow the interests of Poland. That's exactly what I'd like to say. This is also the economic part of Poland's interest. Well, by accepting the Minister's translation that certain data contained in the contracts cannot be disclosed... I'll take it. I just don't have to accept on faith and without proving to me that the entire contract... that the prices that result from the construction costs, and from the later prices of Norwegian gas, will not go away with the Polish economic interest and that this gas will not be significantly more expensive. And that's the assurance. I'm telling you again. I didn't hear it here. Of course, Senator Jackowski is right to say that our business is also a security business. Okay. And to that end, we made a very important investment. It was the previous government that took it. And we realized it, which is a gasport. But none of you, as if you did not want to remember that this diversification began in this room criticized by Prime Minister Tusk. It's already there, and that's something you can talk about in a responsible way. What's gonna come out of this project? I'd love to. I wish you this Minister. I want you to know exactly what happened to Prime Minister Tusk, but I can express my concerns here whether it will come out one way or the other. You said Senator Jackowski that this project must be done because European solidarity cannot be counted on. Well, a second ago, the Minister told us about the European Union's involvement in this project, about funding it. So, what's this thesis you've been telling us about the Minister? Let us talk about the fact that there are certain interests, but let us not immediately use the wording that the whole European Union... Yeah, just now. Let's repeat those words. The Minister here, from this speaker, praised the European Union for helping us to do so. It would also be worth remembering. Two words about Minister Wawrzyk's speech. You said to the Minister that it is not important whether other countries agree with us that only the interests of Poland are important. Well, that's another beautiful word for picking. That is, Minister, about the same logic that ordered the Polish delegation and the Prime Minister to greet flowers, who returned to the shield after the 27:1 vote. I do not understand at all that, in the same statements, ministers stressed the importance of this cooperation within the European Union. I don't understand how you can put a statement like that into saying it doesn't matter if others agree. The fact is that all interests are wiped out in the European Union, which is going well. And one, and the other minister said about this gas directive that we didn't get everything. Yeah, but still France, whose ministry represented by your minister for 3.5 years played on his nose... I'm not gonna mention those idiotic speeches about teaching them how to eat with a fork. [[If they couldn't, Mr. Senator, then...]] Mr. Senator, I'm always happy to hear all your comments. If we move on to a stud, I'd be very happy to think deeply about your remarks, but let's leave the French, let's leave this fork. [[I'm competent in this area, too, Senator.]] That's right, and unfortunately, the effects can be seen. I'm going back to the main topic of my speech. Minister, unfortunately, I did not get the full answer to the following question: will you fill this pipe with gas up to 10 billion m3? And I'm pretty sure it's the only way it's gonna get tight. Well, you must have had some assumptions. If you build a tube at 10 billion m3, there's no human power to make it return at 2 billion. Unfortunately, I'm in the realm of conjecture because I didn't get accurate information from you. That's one thing. Secondly, if it's gas from some other source, also German... Yeah, that's what they're talking about. That's what these converters are for. Will it be, German gas, or will it be Russian gas that comes to Germany Nord Stream? I don't know that, and I'm scared, looking at it from this perspective, whether it's gonna be the same as what we're fighting for... Well, that's beyond division, because the group of people who are fighting for it is also in the Law and Justice, and in the Platform, and in the SLD, and everywhere. I'm talking about coal. There's an argument. He's always been raised. We need coal because it's our deposit that makes us independent. Meanwhile, we're bringing in right now... How much, 30% ? How? From Donbas, Russia. So what is the energy independence of Poland? None. And if there's gas flowing from Russia through Nord Stream in this pipe, it's going to be the same independence as Donbas coal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All these questions asked by colleagues here in this Chamber are well founded and I hope that they will be answered. I am convinced that for the safety of Poland it is necessary to diversify the sources and means of transport of energy raw materials. As important as it was to build an LNG terminal in Świnoujście, I consider this to be one of the major achievements of the PO-PSL government, that it led to the completion of this project The construction of the Baltic pipe is equally important. I think it's necessary. I also think that giving too many additional words on this subject may cost too much politically, so this will be my shortest speech in this Senate term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u99	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal!]] Senator Dobrzyński. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u100	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I am glad that on the Civic Platform's side there is full agreement on this investment, but it would be worth mentioning a few things here. Well, Senator Pociej is no longer in the room, but I will bring this up. The LNG terminal cannot be compared to the Nord Stream 1 case. Please remember that this is a project that was very dangerous for parts of Europe, for us, during the implementation. Also with regard to the attempt to build a project Nord Stream 2 all points out that it will be realized however Our government's position, Poland's position is clear. So that the ministers should be thanked for this, because this is very, very important. I would also like to draw your attention... Economic, economic, but, ladies and gentlemen, we should all know that, in fact, these types of pipelines are largely a matter of policy. And here the economy plays a role, but still a small, not a particular one. Of course, we should safeguard our economic interests, but using other sources is very safe and automatically makes the product, in this case gas, much, much cheaper. I would like to thank the ministers very warmly for their detailed and upbuilding statements. I hope that the deadline for 2022 will be fulfilled, because there will certainly be some dangers, but from what Minister Naimski has said, this is in the area of the Ministry's predictions and security. I think the Minister is also aware of the various types of pressure in the lobby, there will certainly be speeches here, but I am calm about it. I also thank the Professor for his speeches on our interests. This is very beautiful and I am glad that this is the position of the government, as you have presented it. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u101	Thank you very much. The list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland on Legal Protection and Legal Assistance in Civil, Family and Criminal Matters, signed in Helsinki on 27 May 1980. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1102, and the Commission's reports in print Nos 1102 A and 1102 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! This is the termination of a bilateral agreement that has existed between our countries for decades. This is no longer necessary now, because there are international regulations which, unlike bilateral agreements, are binding on all countries that have signed a specific convention, e.g. within the Council of Europe, on various aspects of legal aid, whether they are regulations within the European Union. They concern, as we know, the Council of Europe 47 countries and, in the case of the European Union, 27 countries. Therefore, according to the principle of St. Tomasz of Aquinas, that the existences should not be multiplied, we terminate this agreement in order to stop with these international agreements, whether they are conventions or agreements concluded in other forms that regulate the same issue for several dozen countries. The project was unanimously accepted by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. That's all I have to say about it. I would like to thank our legislator, Beacie Mandylis, for a very beautiful study in which she listed all the acts of international law governing the issue so far covered by this bilateral agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u103	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Mark Pęk, to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My previous speaker has already explained the purpose, the reason for the termination of this agreement, and therefore from the substantive point of view I have nothing more to add. The issue is obvious both politically and legally. I would just like to say that, at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on 19 March, the law was adopted unanimously, without amendment. I also recommend this position to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u106	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask. Because this is another termination of the agreement between the Polish People's Republic and a country Or at the meetings of the committee, either one or the other, there was any information on whether there were any other agreements to be terminated in this regard. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: To whom...]] I told you that at the meetings of both committees, so that I would address it to both.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u107	Senator, this particular issue was not mentioned, although I can add from myself that there are many such agreements, such as the 1969 agreement with France and agreements with a whole host of other countries. It seems to me that this is just ahead of us and that these agreements should be said, because the existence of separate agreements is simply not right now, since there are regulations within the framework of either conventions or other multilateral agreements.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u108	Thank you very much. Since there are no further questions, thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Justice were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Mr Marshal, thank you on behalf of Minister Wawrzyk and your own. I think it's pretty obvious.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We begin to light up the fourth agenda: the Act amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1107 and the report of the committee In print No 1107 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to you on behalf of the Health Committee an opinion on the Act amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. In short, the Act is of a considerable technical nature and mainly concerns the adaptation of Polish legislation in this area to European Union legislation. Implementing decisions have been taken in this area and there has therefore been a need to adapt the rules. Importantly, these rules must enter into force before 20 May so that all the provisions of the European institutions in this area can be implemented. In simplification or in summary, when discussing the proposed provisions, it should be emphasised first of all that they concern the production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and EU legislation in this area. The Act sets out a catalogue of information obligations for the chemical inspector and clarifies his competence. The result of the analysis carried out by the Chemical Substances Inspector as regards the documentation submitted by the manufacturers and importers of tobacco products may be that the inspector has issued a decision stating that the documentation relating to the tobacco product, electronic cigarette or storage container contains data demonstrating that the product does not comply with the legislation or delegated acts or does not comply with the requirements laid down in the provisions on the content of the notification. Importantly, a new way of controlling has been introduced. 6 district sanitary inspectors have been appointed who will be able to take samples for testing at the production site. This is a change from the current regulation, according to which the producers themselves took samples and provided them for examination, which, it seems, was not a good solution. The most important change or novelty that will be introduced by the law is the issue of a unique identifier for each single package of tobacco products. This identifier must be placed in an indelible and durable manner on the unit packaging. The identifier will be generated and issued by a single-member company of the Treasury, the subject of which is the production of such blanks, documents, secured prints and excise marks. The costs of this operation will be borne by producers and importers. All of this is designed to ensure that in a system that is called track and trace in Europe, it is possible to check the origin and way of packaging to eliminate illegal products from legal circulation. Finally: technical regulations set out new offences in the Act A breach by the manufacturer or importer of the obligation to provide one-off information on tobacco products and the obligation to provide a list of ingredients for herbal smoking products. They will be punishable by a fine of up to 200 thousand zlotys, a penalty for restricting freedom or both in total. The bill at the committee meeting didn't raise much doubt. The discussion stressed that the main content of the law, namely the introduction of this new, previously non-existent method of tracking tobacco products, which is intended to ensure the presence of only legal tobacco products in circulation, requires not only labelling, but also What was emphasized in the discussion Also, more consistent and effective law enforcement of illegal trade. Illegal trade is quite common and is mainly based on illegal imports from other countries, mainly from the East, from the East, but also probably from illegal cigarette production in Poland. Well, it's very developed. It seems that in order to achieve the effect that is expected by these regulations, attention should be paid to the trafficking of illegal cigarettes, where no one cares whether the cigarettes sold and the tobacco products sold are legal or illegal. This applies both to various markets, bazaars and the Internet. During the discussion it was also noted that in the legislative process of this law, which, as I say, does not in itself arouse any greater emotions, on the one hand, some success has been achieved, namely that some manufacturers and importers have been able to reject proposals so that information on the low harmfulness of certain products is allowed, which could mislead customers, creating such an impression or an illusion of the harmlessness of certain tobacco products. On the other hand, the discussion was disappointed that the existing provisions of the Health Protection Act could not be supplemented by the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products with the provisions proposed and for some time in the legislative process, i.e. provisions introducing a ban on smoking or the use of tobacco products in the vehicle in which the children are transported. Unfortunately, this was not achieved. It seems to be disappointing in some way. Although I repeat once again: the initiative of the whole law was about something else. On the other hand, it is worth mentioning that the provisions of the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products since 2016, can be said to have followed EU legislation in this area. or even a little ahead of them, even when it comes to the needs that exist, namely protection against the consequences or consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. Yeah, but time goes by, producers, distributors and importers don't sleep, there are new threats. In some countries around the world, these threats are seen. Lately, we've had, for example. information about the growing popularity of the so-called 'news' in the United States. electronic cigarettes, especially among children and young people. It is relatively easy for children, even young children, to hide the use of such products because of their smelllessness or almost smelllessness. At the same time, there are scientific reports that these products are not only addictive, because there is no doubt about it, but also very toxic. Right now, for example. legislation is being prepared in the United States, which will significantly limit the distribution of such measures, in particular restrictions on electronic cigarettes or, in principle, cartridges for electronic cigarettes containing fragrances, flavouring substances, which, as it were, increase their attractiveness. This seems to be an example of challenges that are also facing Poland. It would be worthwhile for the government, and especially the Ministry of Health, to show more initiatives in this area, both in Poland, what we are authorised to do, and in the EU, because we know that a significant part of these rules can be said, rooted in whether or not it has the basis of the EU Anti-Tytonic Directive. More and more countries around the world are thinking about identifying their territories as smoke-free zones at some point, with different definitions but precisely indicated ones, which, of course, also applies to these different novelties on the tobacco market. It seems that it would be worthwhile for Poland also to announce, at some point, that e.g. in 2030, it will become a tobacco-free country. I'll just remind you of one number. We still estimate that in Poland almost 100,000 people die from detoxic diseases every year. Imagine such a city with a population of 100,000 people. The number of those who suffer in different ways from detoxic diseases and do not die, even fear to mention, because these are millions of people. And it's also very important to spend money on all of this, which we're paying from the common cash register. So that it's worth it, Mr. Minister, I'm addressing you here as Deputy Minister of Health of Zbigniew the King. It would start to think a little longer in this perspective, not just to adapt the technical regulations for the marketing of cigarettes or tobacco products, but also to adopt a long-term strategy. Maybe it should be a government strategy, which if it doesn't even have a legal dimension, it'll be, for example. some strategic document showing how we imagine coming to a point where there will be no cigarettes in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has not made any comments and has adopted the law unanimously. The Commission proposes that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u111	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I have a question about whether there is a specific cost of an electronic identifier to be included in the packaging of tobacco products and whether it is specified what the penalties for non-application will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u112	Yes. This cost will, as I recall, be 3 PLN and 50 gr for each 1,000 cigarettes... Otherwise: the maximum fee for generating and issuing one unique identifier in electronic form will be PLN 3.50, in the form of a physical carrier. 39 zł plus tax, and in the form of electronic form PLN 10.50, for each 1 thousand units per unit packet of tobacco products. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u113	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u114	And the penalties for non-application? What happens if someone doesn't use that ID?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u115	I'm afraid I won't give you such precise information, but yes, these penalties are of course, but is there any... [[200,000...]] No, no, that's 200 grand. I've already told you about it. This is for non-compliance with the obligation to provide information on tobacco products as well as the list of ingredients. Maybe the Minister can help.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u116	Thank you very much. If there are no further questions... [[There's a question.]] Oh, Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u117	I'm listening to a competent supporter. - Well, finally, the doctor. smoking restrictions. You will agree with me that, as part of the actions taken to this end, the most important are the institutions of the ban. No smoking in rooms, trains, stops In contrast, there is no direct interaction with smokers. Here's my question. In several European countries, the principle of addressing specific financial sanctions to smokers is applied. The point is that a smoker, who is to be found to be using, as a doctor, you know that this can be said. It pays a higher health insurance rate. The question is why we will not apply such a mechanism, since it is true that insurance companies do not care, because it is the state within the health system that pays for the effects of smoking. It's so short... [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u118	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, the shortest I can answer is this: we did not talk about this at the committee meeting, this law does not apply. But I'm gonna take this opportunity... [[I'm not on this committee.]] But I'm gonna take this opportunity to talk about it, because it's a postulate that comes from time to time. Please note that this seems to be extremely difficult for technical reasons. Although there are methods to check, e.g. with the help of... [[They're here, ……]] ...blood tests, whether anyone smokes or doesn't smoke, but it's hard to imagine... At the moment, I can't remember how long these substances have been in the body. This could mean that every few weeks, at least every few weeks, we would all have to submit to such a study in order to determine whether we are smokers, because it would be difficult to rely solely on statements. It seems that this would be extremely technically difficult and, moreover, it would probably be a field for numerous abuses and in practice would not be enforceable. By the way, it also seems to me that to some extent it would strike the principle of solidarism, which we are guided by the financing of health care through health insurance. To say that you should be punished for smoking... Well, we should consider various other unhealthy elements of the lifestyle that many people like to represent. Right? Some do not move much, others do not eat properly, and others do not brush their teeth, etc. I am not speaking here in some humorous context, but it is simply so that the diseases that are, so to speak, blamed, are very much and very difficult to determine where the effect of this unhealthy lifestyle ends and begin complications that are objective. It should also be noted that detothione disease is present. * Very rare, though. Also in people who have never smoked. What about those who smoke passively? We have some experience in charging the cost of treatment for people who have suffered some kind of accident, injury after alcohol consumption, but this is not a good experience because it is very difficult to make claims in this area. Once again, it would be very difficult to determine where the obvious direct effect of alcohol consumption ends and start some further complications that can sometimes be extended over the years. So I don't think that's the right direction. Mr. Senator, there is... Of course, you can have such a discussion, relatively free and, I would say, with this in mind. a little intellectual fun character, but in my opinion I'm quite serious about this. In the fight against addiction, especially tobacco addiction, we need to rely primarily on what we call evidence-based policy in public health, i.e. evidence-based health policy. And there are a lot of places in the world where they've been studied, you can say, all the possible approaches to this issue, to this issue. And among the different solutions... Of course, there are various types of incentives to quit smoking, as well as helping those who are addicted to quit smoking, but no doubt 'Cause it's been proven beyond any doubt. First of all, people who are not yet dependent should be affected. This is, you can say, the most prospectively best, the best. In this respect, two types of policies are most effective. One is a price policy, i.e. cigarettes should be as expensive as possible, because then... Unfortunately, it means hitting the pockets of those who are addicted, but it has the strongest effect on those who are not yet addicted, especially children and young people, because the more expensive cigarettes they are, the more difficult it is to enter the world of smoking. And then there's the second thing: reducing smoking in different places, more or less public. These are the directions, the solutions that are being implemented in most countries around the world. It seems that we should go above all this way, without forgetting that there are factors that are a little softer, although it has been proven that they also work. i.e. In general, it can be said that a cigarette should be the least attractive. Cigarettes should be, as the former Commissioner for Health of the European Union once said. It's thick, smelly, expensive and unattractive. And it seems that if all tobacco products were just like that, then we would at least achieve that especially young people, young people, including young women, girls And with this group, we have the biggest problem. They would not reach for attractive cigarettes, e.g. thin, aromatized, with some extra ornament in the form of diamonds or some kind of trinket, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u120	No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Yes, if you please.]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u121	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! In fact, I will say briefly, because the senator, the minister, Dr. Radziwiłł presented all the points concerning this law in general and they were precisely defined. However, I would also like to address this debate, the discussion. Smoking is a problem. Tobacco or detoxic diseases are the biggest single killer of Poles. The exact figures are 67,000 people every year. It may not be 100 grand yet, but if some actions are shifted over time, if we do not limit smoking, then we will also come to that number. And that's disturbing. It is also worrying that it has slowed down the downward trend. In the '90s, we had almost 50% of them smoking. society, including people, so to speak, on a candlestick, very well known to all. At the moment, 24% are burning us, but it is 9 million smoking Poles every day. And in this group, 50% has the chance to grow an detoxic disease, especially cancer, but also cardiovascular diseases, heart diseases. This bill isn't exactly about that. This law is more relevant to this financial part, because it points to the fight against illegal trading, and this is the element that maybe we're a little short of in law. The European Union, after negotiations with governments, but also with industry, wanted to introduce a certain element concerning the tracking of production, i.e. the acceptance of cigarettes packages, which have a unique identifier, tracking from the moment of production to the moment of final sale. Indeed, using the necessary implementation, we have tried to add the elements that were indicated, but it is likely that we need to take the effort to develop a specific strategy, so that in Poland, as well as in other countries, we will point to 2030, because this year is most often given, so is Finland, and the Netherlands, and France, in countries where smoking brings an equally large harvest in the form of certain diseases. Thank you also for mentioning these products, e-cigarettes and innovative products, because this is an area that we follow very closely. We are also on such a sloppy wave, indicated by the World Health Organization, among the four countries where the most teenagers have used or had contact with e-cigarettes. We're watching this trend. We are not as strong as the American FDA when it comes to such positions as to exclude certain products, especially tasteful ones, smelly ones, from the market. Nevertheless, if we are to improve this strategy and move in this direction, I also see this possibility. So that, despite these various reservations, I am pleased to present this bill to the High House asking for further proceedings so as to accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u122	Thank you very much. [[I have a question.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u123	Minister, when did the decline in smoking stop in Poland? What year? Can you tell me? Because you said you stopped...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u124	Over the last 2 years, in 2017 and 2018. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u125	No further questions. Thank you... [[There's no more...]] [[No! They're here, they're here.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister may not be related to the main trend of this amendment, but it is important to me. Well, you are introducing a kind of relief or departure from the general principle that administrative authorities in Poland are in Polish. We have a law called the Polish Language Act. Her art. 4 speaks this way: Polish is the official language of the constitutional authorities of the state, of the local public administration, of the institutions appointed to carry out certain public tasks, etc. And in this law you allow that the documentation that will be sent to the chemical inspector will be in English, although it has been in Polish so far, now it will not need to be translated. It follows from the justification that this is supposed to be in line with current practice, firstly, and secondly, to reduce the financial burden on importers and external producers. Why do we care so much not about the Polish language, but about the financial condition of importers and external producers in this area quite problematic That's what I'd call it. When it comes to moral issues? Why do we turn off Polish from a certain... We are simply breaching when it comes to protecting the Polish language. We disable Polish from a certain area of authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u127	This applies to this system, which has been mentioned here, and it is also so passwordally called, also in our department, track and trade, i.e. the production and trade system, in terms of individual packages. He's even in English. Therefore, thousands of pages should be translated each time when registering. In order to seal this element, we have adopted, as in other European countries One language. English was chosen, not Polish. Of course we can explain this, but then the whole translation will fall on the institution, the chemical inspector. [[Are you sure? Or the supplier, the producer and the importer? Minister, no...]] The importer, if he submits documents throughout the Union, shall be obliged to use the English language. Therefore, if we left this behind, it wouldn't be his responsibility. We'd have to put it in addition. We wanted to be more like other European countries in this area to standardize the language, because then in the case of our products it would have to be translated from Polish to English again. Maybe there's no problem either. It's a choice. This is the system that operates throughout the European Union in English.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u128	I am sorry, Minister, but I am not convinced that we must or should make life as easy as possible for outside producers, in addition to importers of tobacco products. This law is probably about health protection against these products, not about facilitating the lives of producers. Well, excuse me, Minister. All the more reason that Like I said. This is certainly contrary to the Polish language law. You probably didn't reach that bill at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u129	We didn't reach, yes, it's true. However, here documents are submitted in English anyway. This also applies to producers who produce cigarettes in Poland. We have three of the biggest or global companies in the world producing plus a fourth, which is also exporting... [[You didn't convince me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u130	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Enforcement Criminal Code and the Law on the Code of Criminal Procedure. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1095 and the report of the committee In print No 1095 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which concerned the Law on the Criminal Code and the Law on Criminal Procedure. The submission concerns an amendment to the Implementing Criminal Code and to K.p.k. In accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union has adopted a decision on the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union and on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, and on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, the This law contains provisions that enforce the Court's judgment and, of course, guarantee, with certain reservations, the involvement of the perpetrator in a court hearing on the continued application of psychiatric internment. The perpetrator will be able to apply for a court hearing, but a seven-day deadline has been introduced to prevent obstruction. From the date of delivery of the notification of the date of the meeting, it is appropriate to request that the meeting be brought to the meeting. The perpetrator will also be able to submit this application to the head of the psychiatric establishment in which he is present, and the responsibility of the manager will be to deliver the application to the court. The experts who will assess the capacity of the perpetrator to attend the meeting will have to take into account in their opinions the aspect of the possibility of participating in the same meeting. If the court has any doubts as to the expert's opinion, it may request a review of the expert's opinion for an additional opinion. The court which will decide whether to extend the stay or to pursue a stay in a mental institution will be the court in which the perpetrator's district is present, and it will be the court of the same order as the court issuing the judgment at first instance. The revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure is a novelty for the Senate project, which concerns the possibility of paying advance payments to experts on the opinions drawn up. As regards the work of the committee, this problem was reported by the majority of senators, but after hearing the position of the Legislative Office and after a brief discussion they concluded that the law does not go beyond the execution of the judgment. The vote was unanimous: 13 senators were in favour, no one abstained, no one opposed. So that on behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of the bill of submission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u132	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the Senate. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u133	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to present the Government's position on the proposal to amend the Code of Criminal Enforcement and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The purpose of this law, as we have just heard, was to bring the provisions of the implementing criminal code into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2017, dated March 2017. It concerned the questioning of the Article. 204 §1 and 2 in conjunction with Article. 22 §1 of the implementing criminal code. The point is, as it was just said, whether, in a hearing, when the court decides whether to continue to apply a safeguard measure in the form of a detention in a closed mental institution, outside the prosecutor and outside the defender And there's already a rule that makes it mandatory that the defense attorney and the prosecutor have to take part in such a meeting. This man, the person to whom the safeguard measure is applied, should also take part. As you know, a safeguard measure is settled, introduced by order, is of an unlimited nature, but every 6 months the same measure must be examined, i.e. the court, taking into account the expert's opinion, must answer the question whether this person should continue to be in a closed mental institution. There was a doubt that such a secret hearing, during which, on the basis of the materials collected, in particular the opinion, the court would decide, should be attended by the person to whom the safeguard measure is applied. This is not indicated in any provision. Therefore, the Constitutional Tribunal doubted that there could be an incompatibility... i.e. it is clearly indicated that there is a non-compliance with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. First of all, it is about the right to court, the right for the person to take part in this sitting, so that she can refer to, take a stand to be aware that various arguments, circumstances, materials are presented so that she can have a guaranteed participation in this meeting. That is why the laws that give such a right have been prepared. Of course, there are different options, because there may be a situation in which this person, despite being a person placed in a closed mental institution, despite the fact that for example. the expert will give an opinion which will indicate that he cannot attend the sitting, despite the fact that he will apply to allow it... well, the court will decide that he is still to attend the sitting. So the court finally decides everything, the opinion as usual is of a subsidiary nature. However, there may be a situation in which this person will be properly notified of such a meeting, but will not want to take part in it. If the court has no other position, then naturally it does not have to take part in such a sitting, it is obvious. However, there must always be an expert opinion, in other words, an endorsement as to whether this person can take part in such a meeting due to his or her medical condition. This is a very important circumstance. If the court has any doubt after taking into account any documents, including this note of the internal physician of the mental institution, then it may request an external opinion. It is only then that it decides whether or not this person can attend this meeting. But that's the law we guarantee, of course. It is a law that can be implemented in such a way that it is notified This is how it's done. This person at the meeting has 7 days from the date of receipt of the notification to submit a request to either the head of a psychiatric institution or directly to the court. As I say, there is no obligation here, there is no obligation to attend this meeting, but we guarantee this change of law. Case number two, which is important. It was also presented here. Who's to decide? Where's all this supposed to go? Because the legislative process is of the opinion that there are very different proposals. It was suggested that, in that case, he might be able to settle such a case in psychiatric institutions. But these psychiatric establishments in Poland are at the moment 54... certainly more than 50 and they are not adapted to the requirements that are placed in such situations. But it has to be in court. Let us also remember that the judge has an agenda, so that economic considerations, you can say, decide that he joins this agenda and settles this. So in court. But which one? In the court in the district in which the establishment a psychiatric person is present. In this district. The point is, sometimes it's very difficult to arrange a convoy for such a person. In such a convoy This was not raised in the legislative process It has to participate e.g. A doctor, so it's not that simple. These are, of course, a lot of costs. We estimate that for convoys this is about PLN 0.5 million a year. It may not be a big amount, but at this point, if you consider this solution that we have today, which is on the table... Well, normally these costs would be higher. Therefore, it may be a court in the district where the person is present. And that's the second solution. Which court? The court that ruled at first instance, so either a district court or a district court. Of course, there is also a question of what the Senator rapporteur was talking about. This is an additional thread concerning these decisions, regulations that were discussed together with representatives of the Ministry of Justice during the Senate meetings of committees. It was a question of introducing an amendment adding an article. 618fa, who speaks of certain exceptional situations where the procedural authority has the right to decide to pay a certain amount, once or in instalments, to the expert before drawing up an opinion. There was a doubt here, which was settled during committee meetings. The point was whether such legislation could be incorporated into this regulation. Some experts expressed some doubts about the fact that these provisions concerning the payment to the expert, even before the opinion was drawn up, were set by way of advance payment. they are not related to this case from which I started, i.e. the right of the person on whom the safeguard measure was taken, to participate in a secret meeting. I would like to say that today we are dealing with such a situation that this is a document which benefits from the presumption of constitutionality, a document adopted by the Sejm. And that's the first line. The second point is the so-called case. a functional connection. The point is that, after all, the Code of Criminal Procedure And that's what the amendment to this document is about. It is linked to the implementing criminal code. The rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the rules of the criminal procedure apply in these proceedings, so we do not see any reason why we should not support such a solution in this case. This decision also raised doubts... Well, we were actually praised. I can even tell you more. Everyone praised us as a resort for finally appearing something that would encourage experts to give opinions so that they would be more willing to participate in the whole procedure. It is well known that sometimes there are allegations that these opinions have been drawn up for a very long time. Well, there's finally a recipe that's supposed to encourage people who have professional knowledge in different areas of life. And I want to tell you that this question needs to be answered quite clearly. Exactly, among other things. Mr. Senator Pociej was in favour of entering the room, and I thank you publicly today. What I'm trying to say is that it can't be that an expert is lending an opinion. These opinions are sometimes very complicated. The material they're working with... And here in the Senate, there are representatives of various professions. You know that this opinion is not easy to draw up. It takes time, an enormous amount of work. Sometimes it requires, for example. Review tens of volumes of documents. Well, there are. various economic issues. These are sometimes tens of thousands of pages, so it's hard for an expert to ask him to wait for a second or three years to draw up an opinion. That's why this recipe came up. He also refers to civil regulation, where it is settled at the very beginning. In criminal regulation, it's different. Of course, we protect ourselves because we say this: a complaint for a court order in this case is not entitled, but if the opinion has been prepared incorrectly, if it is an opinion in which any false data is contained or there was no opinion at all, and money has been spent by way of an advance, then, you know, it must be returned. That's why there's a safety valve in here, so to speak. Finally, I would like to thank you very much because this is a Senate initiative. I would like to thank you very much for the fact that this initiative has come out of the Upper House. To answer the questions that were addressed to me during the committee's meeting, the number of perpetrators who were referred to implement a protective measure in the form of a stay in a mental institution is 833 in 2017. I'm talking about getting a full look at it. It's 54 psychiatric facilities. Transport costs will be borne by the State Treasury. The court will have no reason to charge the head of the mental institution. That's all there is to it. Thank you again for the initiative you have prepared.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u134	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u135	Minister, this is a good change, a good bill. I understand that this is how the Ministry wants to encourage experts, specialists... In this case, it is likely that this is largely the case for medical experts. Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes.]] Because we need to analyze whether a further stay is necessary or necessary. I'd like to ask you something about that. There was a case against an expert who acted on the death of the Minister of Justice's father. This case was taken by the D.A. and brought to court. What is the outcome of this case against the expert? Do you think that's the kind of... Otherwise, how many cases are there? [[Mr. Marshal, this is out of range...]] This does not apply to the Minister, I ask in general. How many cases have there been of referrals by the prosecution against experts who are suspected of unjustified costs or exceeding powers or misleading the court? I'm asking because situations like this can happen, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u136	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u137	Mr. Marshal, I don't know how many things there can be. the costs have been overstated. This is ultimately determined by the court, given the work of the expert. Under no circumstances do I want to refer to the first part of the question. I don't know about that. If the marshal asks a specific question... I, of course, am prepared to answer, but I have no such knowledge, Mr. Marshal. [[I'm gonna ask for a written reply. How many cases of this kind did the D.A. refer to the court? Because in the case cited, the case was referred to the DA's office.]] I don't think there's much of a case like this. [[Good. Please respond in writing.]] Good. I will, of course, answer the Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u138	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have been struggling with this bill for a long time, and we are at the final stage. I'll admit, I'm just now having some doubts. I would ask for an explanation, because it will have meaning in practice, in interpretation. Well, right now it's like this. This is the result of the text Even if the expert considers that the presence of the perpetrator at the hearing is not required, the court may consider that it is necessary. And then the unsub makes a request. Question: what happens if the unsub doesn't apply because he simply doesn't want to or doesn't have to or is somehow... well, maybe not intimidated, but isn't encouraged to do so in the establishment where he's staying? What if it's like... Is that what the family's gonna ask for? In other words, can the need to bring the perpetrator to the meeting be recognised either by his own office or for another reason? Suppose the unsub's family asks that he be brought to court and heard there.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u140	In this case, If, as you say, the family asks for it This is the decision of the perpetrator. So I want to say this: this is the decision of the perpetrator. And the question of this expert. What is included in this opinion from a mental institution does not prejudice the fact that the court is to act in one way or another. Well, the court has the right to appeal to an external expert. At that time, two experts are preparing their opinions and the court shall decide on this basis. So in the end, as I said, the court has full power. Even if it were inappropriate, the court may decide that he should attend... [[Thank you very much...]] The court is the final expert, in other words.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u141	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u142	Thank you very much. One question, Minister. Looking at the progress of the legislative work 3 amendments were tabled in the Sejm, and the third amendment was taken into account, and I would just like to ask how the Ministry responded to these 3 amendments and whether they were notified in accordance with what the Ministry imagined was otherwise. In other words, were you in favour of all three amendments, or were you against them, and if you were against them?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u143	This first reading took into account all comments made by the Minister of Justice, comments made in 4 areas. It's a matter of considering the unsub's presence at the meeting... His stay in a mental institution can only be extended exceptionally, if necessary due to his medical condition. That's the first thing. The second is the introduction of a provision which would allow the court to consult experts in this respect and the third is to take the assumption that the perpetrator is present and that his absence should be regarded as an absolute exception. I fourth addition of a provision sanctioning an application by the perpetrator to bring him to the meeting after the deadline. That's the four areas. At first reading in the Sejm, the Ministry submitted a proposal for an amendment concerning the award of an advance payment to the expert for the opinion made on behalf of the procedural body and this amendment was adopted. All our proposals have been taken into account. [[I understand the rest of you were against the amendments, and they didn't come in...]] All our suggestions as the Ministry of Justice, all our proposals have been taken into account. Well, it's a senate project, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u144	And did you... Mr. Marshal, I'd just like to ask you a question. Minister, I have here in the opinion of our legislators described the course of legislative work. And it says here that the second reading of the project took place at the seventy-seventh meeting of the Sejm and four amendments were tabled during it, one of which was withdrawn. The first was to order that the session involving the perpetrator placed in the plant the psychiatric was held in this establishment, the second was to be removed from the draft article. 2, the third to be removed from the proposed article. 618fa k.p.k. Paragraph 2, which clarifies what will be included in the provision on payment of the amount of the expert's remuneration. I would like to ask what your attitude towards these 3 amendments was.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u145	As for the first issue, in a mental institution... We didn't agree to this, but... [[I see.]] ...I, Mr. Senator, have already spoken of this here. At first, I justified the reason why we didn't want you to... [[I see.]] ...that there should be secret meetings at the mental institution. 'Cause these bets are just, like, in the world, not prepared for that. That is why we asked for it to be in court, but we did not agree to this amendment and that is what the Members agreed to. The second issue is an advance for experts. I do not remember the exact wording of this amendment, but I know that we did not agree with it either. There were a lot of these amendments, and the second reading adopted, among others. amendments of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to Article. 618fa, removed §2 as excess, because its essence contained in §1, assumed that the complaint was not entitled, and there was a discussion on this subject... So that, throughout the legislative process, various amendments have emerged, including those relating to the granting of an advance. Yeah, well... [[Minister, I just wanted to explain... because it was at the Seym stage, I wanted to know what your ministry's position was. Contrary to appearances, I wanted to know if there was a vote in the Seym that you didn't want. Because then I'd love to change it to what you're proposing.]] No, no, it's all... [[That's it.]] At the very beginning I said that all our proposals were accepted, and it was by consensus, I think it wasn't here... The only greater consideration was whether this provision for experts should actually be included in this regulation. And that's what caused the discussion. I went through the transcripts yesterday and the Sejm, and the Senate committees, and there weren't any more comments, as I recall. It was just a matter of putting this provision in place, that is, an article. 618...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u146	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Pociej. I would just like to add that the Minister has committed himself to giving a written answer to Senator Borusewicz's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With great pleasure I would like to congratulate you on behalf of the total opposition... [[Total power.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...the total power of a very good bill. Minister, I would like to prove, standing on this stand right now, that if... all the more so because it was the idea of our committee, my committee, in which I participated, but I am very glad that we were able to work together. I know that some mistrust has not been fully controlled between us, although my questions have only been intended for the Ministry to have full satisfaction with this law, because I know that the Ministry will know better than we do about this case. The Minister immediately took my questions as a bit of an issue, just in case. Not at all, Minister. When you go out with a good project or support a good project, I'm sure we'll always support you. I am pleased that, at the end of this difficult term, these are the things that really focus on making the process faster, more efficient and that the justice that people are waiting for can reach them earlier. As practitioners, we know what a narrow throat these experts are, how they delay our work in court, how long it is necessary to wait for it, how often public opinion, precisely because of the obstruction of this system of judicial experts, thought it was the judges and the justice system that were the fault. And I am very happy because, in connection with this law and all that the Minister has said here, I think there is no doubt that we can send such a signal to citizens: these are real problems of justice, these are real solutions and not so much for the exchange of staff at the very top of the judiciary or for the exchange of governors is to speed up these procedures, but on such small, very good laws. And once again, I am very pleased that this bill has come out of our committee with full consensus. 'Cause where there's real help for justice, there's always going to be consensus. It is a good judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and that after so many, so many, so many moments, when this system was not irritated, when we had very serious disputes... that this law was between the bad or unhelpful ones. And thank you very much in this regard the Ministry for its cooperation and for its actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u148	Thank you very much. There are no more requests for discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Real Estate Management Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1092, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1092 A and 1092 B. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Piotr Flork, to present the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u149	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A separate meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, as well as the Committee on Infrastructure, on amendments to the Real Estate Management Act was held yesterday. In that order, because, in fact, the Committee on Infrastructure was supposed to be the first meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, but it so happened that, due to the delay, the committee of the local government first considered this law. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to make some comments on the law itself. The main purpose of the Act is to align the system of law with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal of 14 July 2015 in which the non-constitutionality of the Article was declared. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The first sentence of the Act of 21 August 1997 on the management of immovable property in so far as it makes the request of the former co-owner of expropriated immovable property or heirs subject to the consent of the other joint owners of immovable property or heirs subject to the judgment of 12 December 2017 in which it was declared non-constitutional. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 In the first sentence of the Act on Real Estate Management, in so far as the right of the previous owner or heir to the refund of the property acquired by the Treasury or the local government unit by means of an agreement referred to in Article is excluded. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of this law, when the property has become redundant as regards the public objective justifying its acquisition. In addition, the aim of the Act is to guarantee legal certainty in respect of immovable property covered by the Art. 136 Real Estate Management Act by introducing the expiry date of the right to refund the expropriated property. The Constitutional Tribunal held in its judgment of 14 July 2015 that Article 4 (2) of the Constitutional Tribunal did not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 is incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 and Article 2 The contested provision provides that the former owner or heir may require repayment of the expropriated property or part thereof if the application to the provision of the Article is to be made. The 137th Real Estate Act became redundant for the purposes set out in the expropriation decision. Where the expropriated property was co-ownership of several entities, the administrative authorities and the administrative courts assumed that the absence of requests from all former joint owners of the property or their heirs necessitated the refusal to return the expropriated property, i.e. having to have the consent of all. This means that if the return of the property requires only part of the joint owners, because the others are not interested in the return or for example. It is difficult to determine their whereabouts, this return of undue property is impossible. The law on the implementation of the judgment cited in the judgment of 12 December 2017 allows the previous owners or their heirs to request a refund of the property when the property has become redundant for a public purpose justifying its acquisition, expropriated in the form of negotiations and contracts prior to the initiation of expropriation proceedings. To date, such a request could only be made if the property was expropriated by an expropriation decision taken if the party refused to conclude the contract. Well, we know that there are negotiations first and either an agreement is made, or, if it is not concluded, expropriation mode, and only in this case was it possible. In the view of the constitutional court in the light of the Constitution, it is crucial whether the transfer of the right to property from a private person to a public entity is in fact compulsory and whether it takes place on grounds of public interest, I stress: whether it is compulsory or not, because the purchase on the basis of an agreement is a compulsory redemption for a public purpose, and this was the position of the constitutional court. In addition, the Constitutional Tribunal took the view that, in the event that a public objective is not justified, regardless of the form in which a public body applies its right to property, the obligation to return the property to former owners or their successors shall be updated. The aim of the law is to guarantee certainty s that is the most important Legal relations with respect to immovable property subject to the regulation of Article. 136 Act on Real Estate Management by introducing an expiry date of the right to refund expropriated real estate. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, it is stressed that the addition of paragraph 1. 3 aims to take into account the demands made by local authorities as well as by parliamentarians. That provision shall lay down a period of 20 years within which it is possible to seek the recovery of the expropriated property or part thereof or to participate in the expropriated property or part thereof, calculated from the date on which the decision to expropriate it became final. That provision shall prejudge the expiry of that power if no appropriate request is made within that period. The expiry of the right to reimbursement will create the possibility of using expropriated but unnecessary property for the public purpose set out in the expropriation decision for another purpose. Clarifying regulations are also introduced which provide for the possibility of returning not only the expropriated property or parts thereof, but also the participation of the expropriated property or parts thereof. In cases where more than one person is entitled. This will make it possible to refund the share of the expropriated property or parts thereof regardless of whether the other co-authorised persons decide to proceed with the request for reimbursement. The Act also contains transitional provisions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 2 novels shall be decided on the possibility to request repayment of the expropriated property or participation in that property, or part of the expropriated property, or to participate in that part, if 20 years have elapsed on the date of entry into force of the Act in question from the date on which the decision to expropriate it became final, and if no more than 3 years have elapsed by that date. However, this possibility was limited in time. In such cases, it will be possible to apply for repayment of the expropriated property within 3 years from the date of entry into force of the procedated law. The possibility of reimbursement of expropriated property in such situations will also include real estate acquired through the contract referred to in Article. 114 Real estate law. As the authors of the law stress in the justification for the proposed solution, it is a balance of private interest with the public interest. The proposed solution, on the one hand, limits the possibility of seeking the return of expropriated properties over time and, on the other hand, provides a 3-year period within which entitled persons may claim the return of expropriated property. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 3 The amending act allows the reopening of administrative proceedings for the reimbursement of expropriated property or shares in expropriated property to those persons who have previously been refused because of the lack of consent of all co-authorised to submit an appropriate application or because of the acquisition of real estate by means of an agreement referred to in Article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on Real Estate Management. In such cases it will be possible to apply for reimbursement of real estate within 3 years from the date of entry into force of the Act. Last article of the Act, Art. 4, provides that in cases involving the return of expropriated immovable property initiated and not completed by the final decision, the provisions in the version proposed by the procedated law should be applied, except for the provision exclusing the refund entitlement. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after its announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been two committee meetings. Because I'm a member of both committees. It just so happened. I will refer to the amendments tabled in both committees. As I said at the beginning, yesterday was the meeting... The first meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration took place. Amendments were tabled at this committee meeting. One amendment follows from the opinion we received from the Legislative Office and concerns Article. 2 (2) 1 where the first words "in the form of this Act" used are deleted. That's because it's a mouth recipe. Article 7 136 does not appear in the current wording of the Real Estate Management Act. The amendment therefore removes an unnecessary part of the rule. Here the committee of self-government and administration was unanimously in favour, and the Minister also supported the amendment, so this amendment was accepted. The second amendment, tabled at the same committee meeting, is an amendment by Senator Zientarski. The point is to change from 3 years to 6 months or 2 years by which claims can be made from 20 years ago and beyond. That's what Senator Zientarski proposed. Senator Rotnicka added to shorten this deadline by a year. This resulted, among other things. z... We know that there were various opinions submitted to the committee, among others the Polish Działkowicz Union submitted an opinion, the Ombudsman also submitted an opinion to this law, it was also an interesting opinion. And especially the Polish Landowners' Union raised the issue of this 3-year term here. The committee's vote... First we voted on the six-month deadline and the committee rejected it. The two-year term that Senator Zientarski proposed was rejected by the committee. The annual deadline was also rejected by the committee. But those were the corrections. 6 months, 2 years and 1 year That only concerned, in accordance with the law, this 3-year period which was to be shortened. And that was at the first meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. And then there was a meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, this amendment was also accepted, which I was talking about, which was proposed by the Legislative Office. In addition, amendments were tabled by your chairman of the committee, which were more or less identical to the amendment which was tabled at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration by Senator Rotnicka. Except that in these amendments the following provisions were added:. Where, during the period from 1 January 1998 to the date of entry into force of this Act, due to the lack of consent of all entitled claims for repayment of the expropriated property... And so it is when it comes to an agreement. Here, too, we have reduced this term to a year, but only if we are talking about the period from 1 January 1998, i.e. not about those contracts that were concluded earlier, before 1 January 1998. This date is likely to be 1 January 1998. We didn't ask, we forgot to ask. From the entry into force of the Real Estate Management Act of 21 August 1997. So, about that... Well, the point is to take this new bill. This amendment, which, as I am saying, was different from the one that Senator Rotnicka reported, was only that date in which there were no restrictions, and here it was on 1 January 1998 and was supported by the entire committee. Here we were all unanimous, and at the meeting of the previous committee the ratio of votes was 3:4 and the amendment was not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that the law itself is, of course, right. It's a good thing a certain period of time is being introduced, the 20-year-old one, to close off those long-term dates that have often appeared. Nevertheless, lawyers, people associated with the Polish Union of Działkowicz, presented such arguments at the committee meeting, that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, which were in 2015 and 2017, already enabled that it was possible to perform... If e.g. Someone had an agreement to buy the real estate, but as part of this negotiation before expropriation... You could've performed before. And it's been a couple of years. But on the other hand, there were arguments that, of course, not everyone knew about it, were not aware that such claims could be made. And there was this kind of fear that now it might turn out that those people who couldn't make a claim because the rules were so changed... So the most important thing is that if there was expropriation to the public interest, then any such expropriation to the public interest is preceded by a contract, you can buy property under a contract. If someone signed this contract, they couldn't apply for a refund, and if it was expropriated, they could. This bill says that those people who made this deal earlier... I give an example of this agreement, because it also applies to co-owners, the second part. If these persons have already concluded this agreement, they have 3 years to submit applications under this law, and if they do not, the refund will no longer be available, they will only be able to do so for 20 years. And here was a controversy, there was a little discussion about this period, these three years. As far as I remember, I think the Minister said that, according to the government center, two years would also be the right time to accept. An amendment was tabled, which spoke about a year, but there were other amendments that said, among others, About six months. And there's the question of which term is right. There is no rigid term here, anybody can specify this term differently. However, the point was that this period for applying for real estate was not too long, because... There were examples given, perhaps inadequate to this, for example. Bierut's decree. The gunmen have already said that a little bit opens the gate that is opened. We're opening it, but the point is not to keep it open too long. The landowners claimed that in the case of expropriations of real estate, e.g. For some purpose, the public part went for this purpose, and the unnecessary property was handed over by the gardens... Sometimes you can go back to it, but there is another law on gardens, and the matter of sitting is another topic. So there were such doubts and these doubts were not fully resolved. The issue of this application period is debatable. Nothing else in this bill is controversial. We are all in favour of this law, and it is only a matter of the fact that the Senate started in the Seym for 3 years, yesterday the Senate tabled an amendment on one year, but since 1 January 1998... And yes, there will be a joint committee meeting anyway, because there are two different opinions, from one committee and the other, and we will still be discussing this at the committee meeting. This is the only point that is controversial, and there are many different opinions about it. Thank you so much for the report. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u150	Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. There are questions for the senator. Let me remind you that the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator of the rapporteur. Senator Waldemar Sługocki is the first to ask such a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u151	Can you hear me, Marshal? [[I can't hear you.]] Oh, I pushed it. [[You can hear it now.]] Yes. But it wasn't on my side, Mrs. Marshal. I have an important question, although in fact the rapporteur, Senator Florek spoke quite comprehensively about it. I would like to say that I also held many meetings with representatives of the Polish Departmental Association, these were extremely substantive meetings. Polish gunmen are worried, accepting, of course, general assumptions, regulations of this law... I, too, am in favour of implementing this law, but I have my doubts and I have a question. Senator Florek is quite optimistic that this amendment to shorten the period we are talking about will become a fact from 3 years to a year. Well, we'll decide in the vote, hopefully. But I would like to insist here, as well as meet the expectations of the Polish Landowners' Union and ask for it. I do not know if the committee has considered such a proposal and will accept it. To reduce this transitional period from 3 years to 6 months. I don't know, Mr. Senator, did you pay attention to the fact that this is going to be a time that de facto will give the sump to all those who want to make some use of these opportunities and trade claims for real estate. Well, there's a threat. If someone actually lost that property and had the right documents... [[Mr. Senator, one minute.]] ...it can do it quickly. Why are we giving three years? For who? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u152	Thank you very much. [[Before that, it was 20...]] [[Yeah, 20. Exactly.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u153	Yes, Mr. Senator, I confirm that the discussion on this subject was extensive, not only for the Polish Landowners' Union, but for all real estate. They were picking it up. I'm sure we can agree with the senator that when it comes to this time or year or six months... We don't know. Maybe the Minister will answer the question of how many cases there are, how many cases there can be. Because so far it has not been possible to apply for a refund of the property if you were a shareholder, a co-owner, you could not submit an application in the event that the purchase took place on the basis of a contract. Now we open it, now we can. So here's the first question: how many real estate applications are there gonna be? Today, it is difficult to tell how many of these proposals will be. We'll see. At the same time, it's probably like this. What you said, Mr. Senator, about such a negative relationship, so that there would be no real estate trade, so that someone would not try to use this law, it would definitely be better if it were a shorter period, e.g. Six months, like you said. We talked about this, that if someone wants, wants, is getting ready to take some kind of action, and knows about some real estate that, for example. they have been acquired on the basis of a contract, and you will now be able to apply for a refund, then I am convinced that he is prepared for it anyway, and whether it will be 3 months or 6 months or a year, he is prepared for it. I'm sure it's time to shorten the deadline. We have more or less forks, from. to, that is, we have a law that limits the time to return the property to 20 years at the moment. So far it's been possible... there was actually infinity, the deadline wasn't fixed, it wasn't defined how long it was possible, so we're introducing a new law. There must be a transitional period for those people who will be blocked so that they can possibly apply for a refund of the property. And here's the thing: between 0 and 3 years. That's pretty much what happened. Well, zero is impossible because it would not be possible to apply for a refund of real estate in the event of a legally introduced 20-year period, because the Constitutional Tribunal did not say anything about it. The Constitutional Tribunal spoke in quite different cases. This has now been for legal circulation, legal stability, and so on... so that we don't come back, that property expropriated 50 years ago, and now there's a proposal, looking for documents, determining which is usually a very difficult matter. I'm reminding you that the old man is doing it, the old man is doing a real estate return. These are procedural matters, very cumbersome. The question remains: how many years can this be done? And here's a change in the bill that says, okay, everything's fine, but 20 years back, no more. That's what the bill says. That's the change. So what I said remains to be balanced from zero to how many? Well, the Sejm established three years, first it was about two years, but then, as far as I know, it changed in the Sejm for three years. There's a question of what time would be right. We may have different opinions here, but I think it should be assumed that the shorter the problem will be, the much less so after the proposals have been submitted. Well, there must be a deadline at the same time, because the harm that has been done to people who have been expropriated... And let us remember that we are talking about the years of the previous law on real estate management, the one from 1985, or what was still before the law, before 1985. We remember what it was like. It wasn't like today that the valuer valuations the property expropriation, that the price must correspond to the value of the property, etc. These were different times when it was unilaterally fixed a price which had nothing to do with the market price at the time. Therefore, if the property was purchased in someone else's case After all, we have repeatedly emphasized in this Chamber that if expropriation is carried out, we must first try to buy the property in question, on the basis of a contract. We talked about the Central Communication Port recently, and it was also said that decisions would be made to first try to buy the land through a contract, and then on the way of expropriation. And it turned out that those who chose the terms they had been offered and decided to buy out the contract, or notarial solution, made a mistake. Because if they waited for expropriation Maybe even at the same price, or maybe more, because it can be different, they would have the right to reimbursement, but because they agreed to buy out on the basis of a contract, they did not have the right to return. So here there must be justice. Indeed, there were cases where the price for the property was low in the old years. But we do know that if you get your property back, you still have to pay it back. what they received. Eventually, it's a matter of replacement property... I'm sure it's difficult to get things back. If there are any buildings on the property, objects... If the area wasn't for public use, and then it turned out that something was built, then... So we're gonna have to take it all down. So these are very, very difficult things. So let me put it this way: this term right here is just a term that... As it seems, the minimum time limit is three months, which must be. But whether it's three months, six months, a year, two years or three years, the High House will decide.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u154	Thank you. Senator Sługocki wants to ask in a fraction of a second. [[I'll try a fraction, but...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u155	It's gonna be hard, Mrs. Marshal. But thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask, because in answer to my question, you didn't take into account the possibility of trade in claims. Isn't there going to be a situation where specialized companies, law firms, are going to be looking for real estate owners, and it's going to be a huge deal? I think, in this context, the amendment that is being made on the initiative of Senator Augustine, Senator Rotnicka, Senator Wcisła and myself, i.e. shortening this time to 6 months is appropriate. Do you share that view? What does the committee say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u156	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u157	I don't think we discussed this at the committee meeting. But I can tell you, I don't think it's that big and that big of a deal. Although this cannot be ruled out. It cannot be excluded that e.g. Someone will find the property that was purchased by way of a contract, find the owner, and tell him he'll do all the business for him, and he'll just file a motion and try... It is possible, of course, that such situations can happen. It's possible. But perhaps on what scale is this possible? It's hard to answer that question because we don't actually know Maybe you can tell the minister when he answers the questions, 'cause maybe the minister is Knows - What do you mean? is the scale of the possibility of returns. It's probably gonna be hard to figure out based on the information we have. I think it's possible to determine that based on the refusals that were involved in the returns... But the refusal to return was due to the fact that either all the shareholders were disagreeable, or someone applied for a property that was bought under contract, and then he had no right to return and was refused. According to the Minister, there have been several thousand such phrases in recent years, perhaps about 4,000. However, it is difficult to say whether there are many people who have actually voluntarily decided on a buy-back agreement, or whether they will now apply for a return of real estate. Returning some properties today is obviously impossible, it is quite another matter, then there is the question of compensation, so that... We weren't discussing this in detail on the committee, but if the senator had asked the Minister... Perhaps the Minister has more knowledge of the possible scale of the phenomenon that may arise as a result of this legislative change. [[We'll ask the minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u158	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u159	Mr. Senator, there are two laws. The one we're investigating is going to meet those old owners. They were first expropriated for public purposes and then de facto used for other purposes, perhaps important from the point of view of public affairs. Well, let's say that. For a hospital instead of something else, such a property was assigned. And now please note that when it comes to landlords, expropriation cannot take place without compensation under Article. 26 laws on family gardens. And in turn this bill says you can expropriate without compensation. Have you considered collapsing these two laws? Which rule after the entry into force of this law will be more important? Because I understand that laws are equivalent.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u160	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u161	Well, as far as landowners are concerned, the number of land gardens in Poland is relatively large. This is a matter of the legal form in which the property was transferred to the yard. Let's take this example I gave. There was a situation, for example. A public target... [[Mr. Senator, we assume that...]] Well, there was an area. If this area has not been used in accordance with a public objective, it is clear. There'd have to be some kind of public interest. It doesn't matter if they built a school or a hospital. There was no expropriation for a specific purpose and therefore these properties would generally be recoverable. If they're... [[And will the landlords get compensation?]] Well, I don't think there's going to be a return on property transferred to landlords in this situation, for example, because of what the senator was talking about here. This has to do with the development of these gardens for many, many years. The gunmen also had the opportunity to sit down. Yeah, there's a sit-down here, too. After 20 years, if in good faith... And in general, it was good faith when it comes to these parcels. Well, you could have gotten a seat on these plots. There is also a law on gardens, which regulates it, which is exactly what the senator mentioned here, but it is difficult for me to answer these questions. Ask the Minister and ask him what would happen in such a situation if there were really a return on the property in which the yard would be located and what the consequences for the landlords themselves would possibly be.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u162	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Wczyła. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u163	Mr. Senator, the amendment of the law also gives the right to bring claims to people who have already had similar claims and who have been denied a refund of property, as well as to persons who have been asked in some process whether they are asking for a refund of the property and who have not shown any interest in the matter. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting about what caused these people to now be given the right to re-claim their claims?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u164	Well, we're talking about these two conditions. The first is that if there really was no expropriation, only the purchase of real estate, then it was a refusal. Therefore, here is a simple matter: there was a refusal, and now you will be able to make this request and will not be refused. And in the event that you were an accessory, all the shareholders had to apply for a refund. Well, it turns out that not everyone was interested in returning the property, and if everyone didn't ask for it, it was a refusal. Maybe something's changed. Maybe someone who didn't have any interest in it at the time and didn't want a refund, now he'll change his mind, and he'll want to ask for it, which can't be ruled out. It could have been the person that was completely uninterested at the time. She wasn't interested, but now that the law's changed and there's a possibility she might find out she'll be interested. Well, this gate is open, and those people who were denied it, and now in these cases, the law allows... They may ask for it, and the matter will be considered again. There is a high probability that in some cases Those in whom, for the reasons mentioned by the senator here, it was negative. This case is settled. It's going to be positive...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u165	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I was a little worried when I listened to your answer, in which he pierced such a tone of view of this issue from the point of view of the interest of the state, public administration. It was also said that opening the gate for 20 years... And yet we are talking about expropriations of wrong, those that were not pursued for public purposes. This applies to vital rights, rights and civil liberties, which have been equally important for 20 years and have not been less important, for example. in the times of the Polish People's Republic. Why are we narrowing this time horizon to 20 years, thus depriving people who lost their assets in the early years of the Polish People's Republic of Poland of their chances of applying for compensation or for the return of property unduly expropriated and unrealized to the public?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u167	Mr. Senator, so far you have been able to apply for a refund without a time limit. Whether it was 20, 50 or 70 years ago, such an application could be made. I think that a lot of interested people have made such proposals, of course, when it was possible to return the property due to the fact that the public objective had not been achieved. Why the 20 years? Why the limit? It's changing. We've got the right catasters today, the real estate cadaver, we've got the settled cases in the eternal books, we've got the electronic books, and so on. Today, access to information is much easier. It's digging into notarial offices, searching for documents in books, etc. It was very cumbersome. It's easier today. As far as land is concerned in particular, land used in important places should be regulated once and to the end in questionable situations, for example, an irregular legal situation. no investment can be made there. So it would be good if for a certain time... There was an offer to make it 20 years, but it could be. 30 years can be tabled. The point is to settle this, but not to say that from now on, only 20 years back, and like 50 or 60 years ago, it's not... That's what we're talking about, which is this transition period. The point is that all those who are still interested in returning the property can submit these applications. The only issue is that it is not known how many of these applications will be submitted, how many people feel hurt because of the fact that as a result of the contract they decided to sell real estate. Today it is difficult to answer the question whether it is entirely fair. If there were a lot of these proposals, it would probably have to be a definite extension of this period, so that it wasn't 20, but for example. 30 years back. The situation so far was that the case was open and therefore these applications could be submitted. I think a lot of interested parties knew about this and applied for a return of real estate. The bill says that you want to close a certain period to explain the laws of real estate. It is a matter of situations where the legal situation is unclear, of ensuring that these land are not blocked so that different types of decisions can be taken in respect of these land, for example. investment. Because if we have an irregular legal situation, if there is no owner, we will unfortunately not make any investments on the ground. It's just... all I keep saying is that it's got to be centered, to look at what happened at the Polish People's Republic. The Polish People's Republic wasn't discussing it, it was just taking off. There was a decision, and there was no discussion. Therefore, we are also returning to those years. If we limit ourselves to 20 years, then... Please subtract 20 years from 2019. There will be a matter of transition, which means we will only talk about the return of real estate, which in the last... It's been for the last 20 years. On the one hand, we close the return gate here, I would say, in the previous years. On the other hand, it would be good to sort these legal matters out. As always, it's a matter of time. Of course, what I said... There was a discussion at the meeting of both committees. It's like we're gonna have to balance the danger you're talking about. The senator mentioned it here. We've got to break it down. On the one hand, it's important that someone calls it that. Don't wake up demons of the past that can activate. It could actually be... We don't know how many of these conclusions are going to be today, how all this is going to be going to be. And it would be advisable for this period to be as short as possible. On the other hand, if there are still people who so far We are talking about the 1960s, the 1970s, when these people were expropriated, about the Polish People's Republic. They didn't take advantage of it... so that they could still apply... This is a matter of transition. The closure of this case is probably advisable and everyone expects it, including local authorities. Local governments are also interested in regulating the legal status of land that is not regulated. The idea, of course, is that this land can be used for purposes, e.g. investment. Once again, I would like to stress that it is simply necessary to balance this, to decide what would be the most appropriate date here. It's not as simple as math, it's not like we can add something and subtract something. We must make the right decision, the High House must vote on the amendment, because there is no doubt that the three-year period that was given in the Sejm is definitely too long, as everyone has said. He should be shortened. Amendment tabled at committee meeting Of course, during the debate, there is still the possibility of making amendments to the period. In this amendment, which I would like to draw attention to, the entry was added on 1 January 1998. It wasn't there before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, rapporteur! Even today's discussion shows how serious the problem is when it comes to gunmen. I have a few questions here, too. The targets have been partly explained by my previous speakers. Here's my question. Has the bill been consulted, as you know, as the rapporteur's senator, with the landlords? That's what I see. They invited me to a meeting. It's a very serious problem. [[It wasn't.]] I don't ask any other questions. Most things have been cleared up here. We will probably do the revision again, because the situation is complicated. I have a question. To what extent, according to your knowledge, this problem is solved, i.e. How many real estate returns are there? Are there any calculations that show how far the problem is being solved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u170	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u171	As for the number of returns, I think it would be a good question for the Minister, because the Minister probably has that data. I'm more or less aware of how much it is a year in some particular old age, but we're talking about the scale of the country, about summing it all up, so it's hard for me to answer that question. As I recall, at the committee meeting, representatives of the Polish Departmental Association claimed that they were not involved in the work at the stage of parliamentary work. That's why they applied to us, to the Senate, and that's why each of your senators got a letter on their mailbox. I recall that these conclusions, these writings, were plenty. National Council of the Polish Landowners' Union, District... I met with representatives of the Regional Board of the Polish Departmental Association in Poznań, who came to see me, came to the meeting and also submitted their comments. So that at the stage of the Seym... I can't say for sure, but I don't think they were involved in the work in the Seym. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u172	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Question, actually, two questions. The first concerns the issue of not returning the property expropriated as... that is, expropriation understood as depropriation of the property... It may also be expropriated by the deprivation of a limited right in rem or perpetual use. Does this bill do that? I don't think so. What's it like in practice? Are there even such cases that the return of perpetual use is implemented? That's the first line. Is that even possible, acceptable? The second point is the issue of a transitional article, but in the version of the amendment which was tabled at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. Namely, we use art. 3 in the period from 1 January 1998 to a period of more than 20 years. That would mean that a certain group has more powers than 20 years... In other words, whether this period is added in the mouth. Article 7 136 shall also apply in the case of a transitional article, Article. Three? Because 20 years behind, if this law starts to apply in the nearest period, it's 1999. Am I right? [[Yes.]] And in this transitional article, 1998 is the year. So we're giving a narrow group, the one that the Constitutional Tribunal was dealing with, more powers than the whole. Unless I am wrong and this 20-year period must also be imposed on this date 1998.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u174	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u175	I think you've got it right, and there's going to be a question... Because this change took place at the committee meeting. That date didn't even show up at the committee meeting on January 1st, or maybe I didn't notice... Only when I looked into the committee's report did I see that this date appeared on 1 January 1998. And you certainly have the right attention for these 20 years. I think that would be a good question for the Minister, then, because the Minister accepted this amendment. Perpetual use, of course, does not enter... We're talking about the owner of the property, so there's no... And as for those limited rights of property you were talking about, I would also suggest... We did not discuss this at the committee meeting, so I could only express my opinion, and since it was sometimes not in line with the Minister's view, I would prefer to limit myself... The Minister will answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u176	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law was introduced by the government. The Minister for Investment and Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Artur Soboń, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? Come on in, Minister, one way or another, I'm sure there'll be some questions for you. Then I'd like to invite you to the podium. [[State Secretary at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Yes, I expect.]] As I understand it, Senator Sławomir Rybicki maintains his willingness to ask a question, right? [[Yes.]] Is there going to be an earlier speech, or is there going to be a question right away, Minister? [[Voice from the room: Questions.]] [[State Secretary at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Maybe questions.]] Questions? Good. Please, Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister, which I have also partially addressed to the rapporteur's senator, concerning a period of 20 years. Why 20 years? Thus closes the way to claims of many victims in the earlier period, and in particular in the Polish People's Republic, to people who have been harmed by expropriation to the public purpose, which has never been realised. That's one question. Second question. The Ministry probably has some estimates. After all, some respect by means of some kind of research had to be done in terms of the scale of possible claims. Is it possible, then, to speak of any material scale? About what? What amount of assets would that involve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u178	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! In order to be precise in answer to the senator's question, it is necessary to say that we do not limit the period to return claims. Today we are introducing a transitional period in which these claims may be made, but there is no time limit for this period. However, we are actually introducing an institution of oldness into the administrative law known in the Civil Code. Well, assuming the rational assumption that the institution of pastity will stabilise property relations for property owners, but also for self-government or state. So she's nothing new. I have prepared such examples of limitation of civil code claims, they are of course shorter, I do not want to mention here, but of course such claims are, moreover, shortened to 6 years. Where did we get that 20-year deadline? This 20-year period shall take account of the period of entitlement to reimbursement. In the case of this longest period, i.e. 10 years after expropriation, there are 7 years when no work has been started at all, and 10 years when this goal has not been realized this is the longest period. We add 10 years and create a 20-year period that seems rational. Therefore, I'm gonna say it again. We do not limit claims to a period of 20 years of pastity by introducing a transitional period, which is currently 3 years in the draft law, and would be 1 year old if the Senate had accepted the amendment tabled today at the meeting of the local government committee. [[Thank you.]] [[Still on the scale of the problem.]] For today's return proceedings ending with a refund, which are pending before the Starships, are around 600 a year. Pursuant to the Act on Real Estate Management, proceedings or requests From 1998 to today it has been rejected, regardless of the reasons, there are about 4 000.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u180	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u181	Two short questions. Minister, do not the provisions of this law raise constitutional doubts, for example, with regard to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions that allow expropriation exclusively for public purposes and never for private entities? Well, maybe private entities will try to get other entities with separate ownership to be expropriated. That's one thing. Secondly, I will repeat this question which I have referred to the President. Do not the provisions of this law conflict with, at least, the article. 26 laws on family gardens that prohibit expropriation without compensation?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u182	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, when it comes to the first question, of course, if I understand it correctly, expropriations, especially after 1 January 1998, since the Real Estate Act has been in force, must be for public purposes. In the previous laws, I even have this cheat sheet here... In 1985 these were other obvious public goals, which was much less sharp, but practically since 1946, that decree of 1946, and the Law on the Rules and mode of expropriation of real estate from 1958 were indeed the purpose of public utility. After 1998, it is clear that parcel gardens do not fall under the public target category, so such expropriations after this year are not possible at all. Who was expropriated? Of course, individuals were expropriated, so they have the right to apply for refunds. If we were to look at these premises that... And, of course, there is no question of non-constitutionality when we introduce these 2 judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, which... The Court claimed those citizens who were expropriated not on the basis of a decision, but on the basis of a contract, and those who could not apply for a refund because they had to find all the heirs of the co-owner or fraction of the property, giving the possibility of self-refunding. As far as the scale is concerned, if we were to assume that the voivods considered 3,000 142 appeals against the decisions of the first instance authorities in general, we would see that in the case of 106 appeals, that is about 3.4%. , there is a situation that an application for reimbursement of immovable property or parts thereof has been made only by part of the eligible entities and 29 appeals, i.e. less than 1% , concerns the repayment of shares in expropriated property. In short, it's not a scale that's huge, it's gigantic, i.e. We don't expect... It's probably gonna be isolated situations, or there's gonna be hundreds of these situations, because we don't know either. The case-law of the courts was clear in this respect, and it is clear that those who have not made such claims may come forward, knowing that the case law is absolute and that there is no chance of obtaining a decision on the return of a public property which has not been achieved. As far as landowners are concerned, it is absolutely clear that there is a law on parcel gardens which has its regulations in this regard. It's basically an art. 26. I even had that bill, but I don't see it... Never mind. [[Art. 26.]] Yes. He regulates this and we do not interfere in this issue of compensation in any way. It's regulated by a separate law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u184	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First, two questions that I asked earlier and I will repeat in a nutshell. The first concerns the issue of expropriation, but not the right of ownership, but the limited right of property or perpetual use. Didn't you ever... Well, I don't know if it's even possible under this law to restore these rights in situations like this, when property has become redundant for public purposes. The second question concerns this deadline, which appeared in Amendment 3 of the Infrastructure Committee. I understand she was kind of positive about the ministry. Well, in the period from 1 January 1998 it will be possible to... Well, a certain category, just these two categories of co-owners and... well, you know what it is... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Yes.]] They'll be able to sort of satisfy themselves. But there's a 20-year general period. Will this 20-year general period be imposed on this transitional provision?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u186	Thank you very much. As far as return proceedings concerning perpetual use are concerned, they are ongoing, but I would like to remind you that we, in the Act on Real Estate Management, carry out only judgments concerning joint ownership or return from the contract, while adding the institution of the past... We do not interfere with this issue, but agree, such situations can also happen and take place. I just want to explain here how it came to be... Because there really wasn't time to talk about it at the committee meeting. Besides, the senator was very competent and precise in answering questions, but we did not really talk about where this period came from on 1 January 1998. What I'm trying to say here is... [[...Mother's Law is in effect.]] So the Court's judgment only applies to proceedings based on the Real Estate Management Act, which is why the senator's intuition is correct, that we slightly differentiate the situation of those who are subject to the judgment directly and who are given the opportunity to apply for a refund of real estate on the basis of the Real Estate Management Act. This is the period after 1 January 1998. For those who are not covered by this provision, that is to say, they have submitted their applications before. This is the package that responds to the expectations of the social side, i.e. above all, the Polish Departmental Association, which joined the work on this project already at the stage of the procession in the Senate. I will remind you that the project has been evaluated for two years and by the Legislative Council, and by the Ombudsman, and by the Public Prosecutor's Office, and also by the Government Legislative Centre, which actually proposed... Initially, it was a 2-year transition period. It was the Government Legislation Centre that indicated that a 3-year period would be more appropriate, but this year as a transitional period and limiting the possibility of applying for a return to the Court's judgment, i.e. to these situations on the basis of the Real Estate Management Act, is our response to these unfair and unnecessary concerns, among others. the landlords' environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u187	If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, I'll ask you one more time. Because I'm just comparing this term. And I've done it before. With a date which is in the mouth. 7 inserted in Article. 136, the 20-year-old. They're not even. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: This is something else.]] I understand, but lips. 7 is, in a sense, temporary. That's what I'd call it, because there's a specific deadline when these applications can be submitted. And now these terms aren't equal. That would mean that those who are, let's call it, specially treated It is about joint ownership and reimbursement of the contract They shall have a longer period and a longer period of time. 7 is shorter, 20 years old. That is why the question is whether a 20-year period will be imposed on this transitional provision. Will it simply be so that even if they apply, they will get a negative decision due to the passing of these 20 years? Is that what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u188	No, let's tell the two dates. This 1 January 1998 refers to the execution of the judgment and concerns the Real Estate Management Act, in turn the 20-year deadline will in fact begin to limit the possibility of return proceedings after this transitional period. During this transitional period, all those who can benefit from this, even if it was much earlier than 20 years ago, will be able to make such claims for reimbursement for a period of one year, two or three years. Well, depending on what the High Senate takes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u189	If you don't mind... I'm so sorry. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Please.]] Guy signed a contract, let's assume, in April 1998. In May 1998, it was clear that the decision would be impossible. Like this... Maybe it is: the deal will be impossible. And he's now on the basis of an art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 7 will not have this right, and on the basis of a transitional provision, it may request that right. I don't know if I've made myself clear right now. It's a short time, 1.5 years, but maybe there'll be people like that. And then what?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u190	No, but... Again. In my opinion, and in this, and in this, if... he can turn over during this transition period... [[Okay, let's leave it. And the last...]] He cannot turn to you if the procedure has already taken place. Once again we limit this directly to this period, i.e. the period of the Real Estate Management Act... [[And, if you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, one last question, I won't bother you anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u191	Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u192	Excuse me, Minister. Well, in the article... I mean... in the added mouth. 3a is such a short disposition that when one of the co-owners reports, others must be notified, but there is no mode of notification, and that is the problem. Because the one who lives in Poland will come forward, and the three brothers who have gone away have already been given, I don't know, somewhere for sax dozens of years ago, will not report. And the question is this: in what mode will they be notified? Shouldn't we simply use the mode, also introduced, from the mouth, at once? 2a and add one sentence there that mouth. 2a shall be applied accordingly? Then it would be clear. Because it doesn't have that mode here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u193	This is exactly the same mode, which means it's a three-month notice. [[But it's not here.]] Because it's from the bill. There is no doubt here that if these are the proceedings in which we are dealing with shareholders, then the other are notified by the old lady in the 3-month notice mode. [[Okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u194	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Minister, thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. And welcome... Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is rare for us to proceed to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal without being fully aware of the consequences of the decisions we are making. We are well aware here in the Senate that, when this was connected with serious consequences, generally the government and parliament have been debating and holding back the execution of such judgments for a long time. Some of these reasons have not been met until today, although they concern, for example, the carers of disabled persons whose disability arose after eighteen years of age. And to this day, this case has not been settled not because someone does not recognize the validity of this judgment, but because we The government says so. At the moment, it cannot be implemented. And when there were even serious consequences, they were tried to minimise them by making provision that the risks associated with the implementation of the rights referred to by the Court should be as low as possible. Here and from the statements made by the rapporteur, and even from the statements made by the Minister, who referred to the judgments for which action was taken, it was clear that no one knew what the scale of these claims could be in the future, what their costs could be. But what is known is that these claims can also apply to land on which public buildings have been built. This may apply to those who have taken over these properties in good faith, namely cooperatives, i.e. local governments. This could be real estate. I'm sure they've had their destiny for a long time, and they're also destined for very important public goals. And that's why here, I think, we're obliged to be very careful to carry out the art. 229 Real estate law does not lead to violations of laws and regulations that safeguard new owners. The local authorities are afraid of it, the family gardens are afraid of it. It was mentioned at committee meetings. And some way out of the whole situation to respect the Constitutional Court's judgment would be to limit the time for these claims in the opinion of many. This is justified because there has been enough time already. True, as the Minister said, those judgments that were taking place may have discouraged many from making claims when only part of the property was involved. Because it was demanded that it be all heirs. Yeah, but after all, it seems that those who think it's safe to limit the time to make such demands, such claims, are right. On an indirect basis, the Ministry accepted the amendment tabled at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. And if so, Minister, I believe that there is no obstacle to sharing, in principle, the same concerns, knowing that this minimum period is 3 months, we have decided on this shortest time so far proposed, or 6 months. And this is the amendment I make on behalf of myself, Senator Flork, Senator Vistula, Senator Rotnicka and Senator Slugocki, believing that we will be even more secure from possible speculation and large-scale claims. Because the longer this time is, the more this threat will increase. So I make such an amendment on your hand, believing that the Minister will not oppose it. 'Cause the other part about setting a date, we want to keep it here, too. We think it's good. Let's think about it. There's still time. I look forward to a positive response from the senators and the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u196	Thank you very much. And I'll ask Senator Jerzy Wczyła to speak. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! The amendment to the Property Management Act results from the obligation to comply with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. And in this respect, it is not controversial. It also introduces a 20-year deadline for requesting the return of expropriated properties under the condition of the expiry of that right. And this solution doesn't raise much doubt either. However, there are doubts about the introduction of a three-year transitional period, and we can therefore expect an eruption of claims over the next three years, among others. in relation to areas currently used by parcel gardens, which were often built in expropriation areas. Especially since the right to claim has been extended to those who have already been denied the right to return the property and to those who had not previously expressed an interest in the return of the property, even though the administrative authorities have asked them to do so. Of course, this extension can be justified by ignorance, the situation, various arguments, probably right, but it is also worth thinking about the consequences of the law for those who use these properties today. It may result, High Senate, in the avalanche of affairs. The Polish Landowners' Union estimates that this may threaten the existence of 4 out of 5 thousand family gardens. This amount of possible claims is also confirmed by the Minister. And after the reprivatization experience in Warsaw, we can expect that there will be some who would like to do business. The result will be the social effect of this change. It will touch a large part of society, and it will touch this inexpensive part, for which the garden is often a place of leisure and recreation, often the only place to spend your holidays. These are their vacation trips. I think we should consider that, too. And I think that the introduction of this solution, this three-year transitional period, which is not forced by the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, opens the door to actions which aim not at all to satisfy the sense of harm or justice, but even to make an interest in finding people to whom the law gives the right to make claims. Therefore, together with Senators Mieczysław Augustyn, Piotr Flork, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Waldemar Slugocki, we applied for a transitional period of up to 6 months. I am convinced that it is enough for the interested parties to actually make demands, because these people have already shown this interest. Besides, it is quite a short period, so it will stop generating that this is the name of the speculative market or the claims industry. I ask the Senate to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u198	Thank you very much. Senator Zbigniew Quiet, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I regret to stand here in opposition to certain content both proposed in the Act itself and, all the more so, proposed by those who are still aiming for additional changes. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to step away from certain fundamental matters, from the right to property. Although we are no longer living in a time when, as the Napoleon Code of 1804, declared, ownership was considered sacred, since all states have long since left and there are justified cases of expropriation for public purposes, but in civilized countries there are regulations that protect property. And such regulations appear in our constitution in the article. 22 and Article 22 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 64. The consequence of this is precisely the regulation which provides for the return of the property if it has not been used for the purposes for which it has been expropriated, while Article 137 states that this is the case if it has been 7 years since the expropriation decision became final and 10 years if the target has not been realized, i.e. it may have been started, but it was not completed within 10 years. This is a principle that has been in Poland for almost dozens of years, a principle which was sometimes unfortunately limited. I would like to remind you, for example, that at some point a provision was introduced, that if the property was put into perpetual use and entered it in the perpetual books, it cannot be demanded to return this property. Now we want to introduce a further limitation, now beyond those requirements that exist in accordance with the Constitutional Court's judgment, we are introducing a further limitation, giving a limit of 20 years for the claim for reimbursement. So that if it has been 20 years since the decision became final, this claim cannot be claimed. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't this a little bit of a heads-up? On the one hand, you are entitled to expropriate a man, on the other hand, we are giving him the right to claim a refund if the purpose of expropriation has not been achieved, and on the third, now, we demand that the owner, rather than the one who benefited from the expropriation, should observe the time limit after which his claim expires. The real-estate recovery investigation. Well, that's a little bit on the head. So far there has been such a regulation that if you were going to change your destiny, you had to notify previous owners or their successors. And that was the right thing to do. I don't know why we have to walk away from this. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an additional limitation of the rights of these owners proposed by the senators, this proposal: let us reduce from 3 years to 6 months the period during which those who would lose due to the expiry of those 20 years the right to claim the return of the property... This is an additional, just to the entej power, limitation of the owner's rights. It cannot be argued that there would allegedly be some bad social impact on the fact that department gardens would allegedly have to return real estate... Ladies and gentlemen, this is, in my opinion, an unacceptable argument. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember what expropriation was in communist times. It was a legal robbery carried out in the majesty of the law. This law was so scandalously symbolic that it could actually be described as a deprivation of property without compensation. And now we're supposed to sanction it by introducing a 20-year term? This is unacceptable to me either morally or legally. After all, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go back in our legal solutions to what already exists. Well, if that's what the execution of the Constitutional Court's judgment is about, then I'm very sorry, but this is some kind of error, this is the way out. beyond this obligation, which results from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was intended to improve the fate of those who demanded... The Court found that not all expropriated co-owners have to demand this. It is enough that any one of them has the right and demands it. Previously, there was a limit that everyone had to. Moreover, he said that it is also necessary to return to those who, by means of a voluntary notarial agreement... Well, let's say voluntary, because it was kind of under duress. If he did not agree to this agreement, then he was facing the next stage, i.e. expropriation by administrative decision. So that in these cases is the right to claim a refund of the property. So that we do not fall into some kind of hypocrisy here and on the pretext of improving the situation of those who were taken care of by the Constitutional Tribunal, we will not make their situation worse... Well, we're obviously making it worse by putting in that 20-year term. And the proposal to reduce this transition period from 3 years to 6 months is, as I say, the deterioration of this situation to the entej power. In this way, instead of executing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, we would sort of torpedo it. That's why I'm against this change. It is about these 20 years, and especially the reduction of the transitional period to 6 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u200	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the senators Maciej Łuczak and Grzegorz Czelej have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. [[Voice from the room: Minister...]] In a moment, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Arthur Soboń: I say nothing.]] I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing: Marek Borowski, Piotr Zientarski, Mieczysław Augustyn, Piotr Florek, Jerzy Wcisła, Jadwiga Rotnicka and Waldemar Sługocki. The discussion is closed. Please take the floor of the Minister. I'm sure the Minister would like to comment on the proposals he has made.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. I want to talk about three things. First of all, I'm addressing Senator Augustine. I, of course, respect the senator's ability to present matters of social importance that the senator considers to be such, with this expression that the senator uses to do so and which, of course, would be convincing, if not that today's provisions of the Real Estate Act do not give us the opportunities that the senator is talking about when talking about public buildings or other objects that would be subject to such reimbursement. I quote art. 229 Real estate law. It sounds like the following and it is worth remembering in this discussion: The statement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3, shall not be entitled if, before the date of entry into force of this Act, the property has been sold or has been established on it the right of perpetual use for the benefit of a third party and that right has been disclosed in the perpetual book. So we have an explanation for this. As for Senator Slugocki, the senator wasn't careful enough, and maybe I was imprecise, but it's mine, of course... [[It's tight.]] Senator Tight or... [[It's tight.]] Excuse me, Senator Tighten up. Perhaps I was imprecise in my earlier speech. 4,000 are all negative decisions in return proceedings, and of which individual cases concern parcel gardens. Under no circumstances does this apply to 4,000 gardens, and this is not the case at all. Well, the right thing to say to Senator Silence... I, of course, would like to understand this statement and this concern of the senator to make this system fair, but I would point out that, due to the stability of ownership relations, that is, to make it clear what can and cannot be done in a given area, it is worth introducing such a time limit for claims. He's in every case today, in fact, except for these return proceedings. Well, that's why we've given this opportunity to take advantage of the transitional period during which these claims can be made, so as to finally close this case to close the subject of those old claims which Mr. Senator is absolutely right about. They were something that could be described today as something uncivilized. These people are clearly disadvantaged, although their views are divided in this matter, because they were probably not identical, also with regard to these agreements, but the Court gave us a clear interpretation to treat these citizens so that they could also claim these refunds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u202	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Construction Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1109 and the report of the committee In print No 1109 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, to present to the High House a report on the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on 19 March this year. The Commission has delivered an opinion on the draft law which adapts the system of law to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. On 7 February 2018, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) The Court held in that judgment that Article. 16 point 3 of the 1999 Act, construction law is incompatible with Article. Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 65 of the Constitution is about ensuring freedom of choice for the profession and the choice of the place of work, and in Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 the Constitution that restrictions on the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights can only be laid down in the Act. Construction law is standardized, among others. the rules for the granting of building rights. Art. 16 construction law provides that the Minister responsible for Construction, together with the Minister responsible for Higher Education, shall determine by means of a regulation the limitation of the scope of building rights. The restrictive regulation is that the Act provides only for reasons of limitation and the Minister's Regulation defines what this limitation of powers is. According to the Constitutional Court, the scope of building rights and their possible limitations are matter reserved exclusively for the law. Therefore, the authorising provision cannot refer these issues to the regulation. The implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal consists in the transfer of the provisions of Chapter 4 of the 2014 Regulation of the Minister for Infrastructure and Development on independent technical functions in construction to the Law of 7 July 1994 on Construction Law. The Sejm adopted such a law at its seventy-seventh meeting. 392 Members voted in favour. This law, according to the Senate's Legislative Office, raises no objections. The Commission has also adopted this law without reservation. I ask the High House to adopt this law on behalf of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u204	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by the Senate. We have a government representative with us, Minister Arthur Soboń. Would the Minister like to comment on this bill? No. Thank you, sir. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone want to ask that question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. I would like to inform you that Senator Maciej Łuczak has made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on the Establishment of the Baptism of Poland. The text of the Act in print No 1115 and the report of the committee In print No 1115 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media a report of the committee on the Act establishing the Baptism of Poland; print no 1115. The Act establishes the Day of 14 April of the Holy Baptism of Poland. According to the Act of the Baptism of Poland, it will be a national holiday. The Act is due to enter into force on the day of the announcement. The Sejm adopted a law at its seventy-seventh meeting on 22 February 2019 on the basis of a parliamentary submission. The project was the subject of work by the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media. The amendments introduced by the Commission modified the title and preamble of the Act. As a result of the amendments, the current Article has also been deleted. 3 of the draft law and the editorial work of the proposed law have been improved. At the second reading, 2 amendments were tabled at the 60th session of the Sejm on 12 September 2018. The point of the amendments was to change the date on which they were established. Festival of Polish Baptism, from April 14th to April 15th. The Commission has requested that amendments be rejected. The Sejm passed the bill as proposed by the committee. High Izbo! I would like to point out that the planned holiday... It can be said that this law is a little late, because recently it was the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. In 2016 only a special special resolution of the Sejm and the Senate was adopted. In any case, this law is clearly supported. In the course of the work on this law, we held a discussion in the Committee on Culture and Media. During the discussion, the legislator drew attention to the issue of vacathio legis, which is enshrined in this law, recalling that under the Legislative Guidelines it should be a minimum of 14 days. The proposed law of such a period of vacathio legis does not have. However, the legislator also pointed out that, in a particularly justified case, this principle of the 14-day period of vacathio legis could be waived. In this case, it seems that this applies because the law does not produce budgetary consequences. I will remind you that the feast of Polish Baptism will be a public holiday if we adopt this law, but it will not be a day off from work. In the course of the discussion, Senator Zdrojewska tabled an amendment which led to a change in the time limit for celebrating this holiday, not on 14 April and on 15 April. This is where the High House deserves an explanation. Now, as far as the date of Poland's baptism and the place of Poland's baptism are concerned, today there are disputes about the exact date of the day of this epochous event, because it is known that this happened in 966 and its place. In the literature, it was popularly adopted on April 14, 966, assuming that such a solemn baptismal act in the light of Christian practices of the 10th century was carried out on the Christmas Eve of the Passover, that is, on Easter Eve. Since Easter in 966 came out, as we know, we all know and remember, on April 15, this date was accepted as this historical date. Notabene, as the High Chamber remembers, had the National Assembly just when this ancient act was carried out, in response to these findings that it was April 14, 966. There's a dispute in this case. I am not going to be discussing this at the moment when I present the committee's report. I have taken the floor, and I have spoken on an individual basis, and I will speak on this subject. In any case, Senator Zdrojewska, a bit abstracting from this dispute, made a conclusion to celebrate this on April 15th, arguing that on April 14th, one of the organizations which is considered controversial today was founded. The point was not to combine this holiday, this date with the date of the establishment of this organization. As a result of the discussion, a proposal was made to adopt a law without amendments. The proposal received votes from all the senators present at the Senators' committee meeting. There was one vote of objection, the voice of Senator Zdrojewska, who was just supporting her amendment. In this way, I have the honour to recommend to the High House that this resolution be adopted without amendments. That is the position of the Committee on Culture and Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u206	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Gawel. You're welcome. Mr. Senator, please return to the podium. Senator Gaweł, you're welcome to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u207	Senator rapporteur, the main idea of this resolution is to introduce a holiday and should be based on this date, which is as likely as possible, because historians didn't take it out of their minds, but from a certain deduction, right? This is due to the situation in Europe, which took place in the 10th century, in the 8th century, in the 7th century, in the adoption of Christianity and in the East, and in the West. April 14th fell out on Saturday. And I do not understand that the committee is being argued, which has no substantive basis for the resolution itself, because it is about the baptism of Poland and about the date which should, however, be as coherent as possible with what historians know today. Why did the committee give in? [[But I don't think the senator understood me.]] Because I hear it's supposed to be 15. [[She didn't give in.]] [[She didn't give in. Well, maybe I...]] I'm sorry that... because I'm gonna say too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u208	I'm sorry, maybe I didn't make myself clear. I was merely referring to the applicant's argument regarding the change of the deadline. Let me repeat: the committee recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments and establishing the Festival of Polish Baptism on 14 April. It's not on 15, it's on April 14th. There was a conclusion that it would be April 15th for some reasons And as rapporteur, I have tried to support this proposal. But he did not receive support from anyone in the committee other than the applicant. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u209	Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u210	In so far proclaimed by law and no, customary festivals have such terms as: national, state, and here there is no term. My question is: why was this holiday declared state? In order to shorten my thinking, I will say that it was not the state that was baptized. If anything, it's more like a people or a nation. [[And the nation isn't a country?]] That was the first question. And besides the way we tie it to you... You can happen, and some people dream of countries that don't disappear so much, but they accept a different number. We are talking about the Third Republic, the Fourth Republic. The question is, wouldn't it be a holiday then? I'm sure I'm talking about those other names. Was this considered? Well, there may also be an argument that because of the tolerance of baptism it becomes a directive for the Polish state.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u211	Thank you very much, senator. The senator has asked a little bit of theology. We didn't discuss this at the committee meeting. However, as a simple doctor of history, I will try to clarify one point. Because baptism in the Catholic Church is always individual. He has no idea that we are christening a nation, a country, a group, a social layer. There's no such thing. Baptism is an individual act concerning a single person. Of course, many can be baptized at one ceremony, be blessed with this sacrament, but it is an individual act. It was not a literal baptism, in the sense of baptism of the entire nation of that time or of the inhabitants of the Piast State, but it was the baptism of the social elites, the elites of the leadership of this country, so he lives, his family, his associates. And the process of Christianization of Poland, as we know, continued. It wasn't in 1 year, there was a church administration, there was missionary action. And you could say it was a continuous process. And from here, as I understand it, the applicant 'Cause here I have to stress that unfortunately there was no representative of the applicants or of the government at the committee's meeting, and therefore... And now it's the same. I don't know if there's anyone in the courtroom who represents the government to this bill... So if I understand the idea of the name of this holiday, then the name is as correct as possible: the Feast of the Baptism of Poland, not the feast of the baptism of the Polish people or the Polish state, because such a fact would simply forge a historical fact. [[The name is not for Poland anymore, because...]] Baptism of Poland. Symbolically, the baptism of Poland. [[Voice from the room: I don't know.]] [[No, Poland cannot be baptized.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u212	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The baptism of Poland was not only an act, I would call it, connected with faith, but also with historiosophy, because in this way the Polish state appeared on the international stage. This date is treated as the beginning of the Polish state. This is a special date. [[That's right.]] And by baptism, by an act of faith, by the baptism of the king of that time. The question is, do you know any other cases where such a fact, religious fact, would be regarded as the beginning of statehood. Not some battle, not a marriage, not some dynasty or the beginning of a dynasty, just a baptism? [[The Arabs, of course.]] [[Israel.]] [[Voice from the room: Israel?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u214	Mr. Senator, I wouldn't want to enter into a discussion here. We're going outside... [[USA.]] ...the subject of my report, because we did not discuss it at the meeting of the cultural committee. But at least Chlodwig's baptism, which gave rise to France... It is said: the oldest daughter of the Church... He's speaking so fluently... [[That's why they won't listen.]] ...though today it may be politically incorrect in France, because this Christian heritage is being erased. But these are historical facts. And you pointed out one very important fact. Sometimes it is difficult for people from other countries in Europe to understand a phenomenon of Poland, the phenomenon of the fact that the construction of the state was parallel with the construction of the church administration. And so often in different customs, in different practices, in traditions... For example, the famous interrex tradition, according to which in the First Republic at the moment of the abrogation is the primate, i.e. the representative of the church authority, served as the head of the then state. Hence, a historical phenomenon of our heritage, our tradition, which is sometimes contested today, is questioned today. But that's just the way it was. And from this point of view, it's a phenomenon. Please note that even the communist state, the Polish People's Republic, in 1966 held simultaneously secular celebrations of the millennium of the Polish State 'Cause that was the name of the ceremony. Even though nothing unusual happened in 966 from the point of view of the state itself, apart from this baptism. It was only after we added this baptism as this memorable act of such real inclusion or inclusion in the western Christianity community that it actually happened in the civilizational and cultural senses. We'll have the whole picture of why it's such a memorable act in our national history. So if you look at it from this point of view, you're right. I have slightly deviated from my role as rapporteur, and we have already entered into a broader discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u215	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What I'm going to say now is that I'm going to say it as an individual voice. I would like to present to the High House an interesting concept related to the baptism of Poland as regards the setting of dates. I took the liberty of not giving this information in the rapporteur's rhetoric, and already in an individual voice. I would like to stress that actually the entire committee, the opposition, and the representatives of the governing majority, supported this law. It must be said that it is difficult to question the idea of establishing such a holiday, but we can actually regret that on the occasion of celebrations 3 years ago, when we were in Gniezno, we were in Poznań, there was a National Assembly, it was not immediately established this holiday. Well, that's what happened. It is to be celebrated annually on 14 April, but it will not be a public holiday. The Act states that this holiday is established in order to commemorate this event, given the importance of the decision of Apartment I, considered the beginning of the Polish state. It's supposed to be a national holiday. The Act emphasized that the baptism of Poland had a key role in the development of our homeland, but the presence in the social awareness of this breakthrough event is relatively small today, and that is why it is necessary for this day of national reflection on the heritage of our fathers, on the responsibility of all state authorities, all citizens and each individual for our homeland, for its future and prosperity. This celebration should serve as an inspiration for action for the common good. In the explanatory memorandum, I quote: Today, in the age of crushing the foundations on which our national and state existence is built, in the age of uncertainty and concern about our future, about our children tomorrow, we should remember the anniversary of the Baptism of Poland. May April 14th become an opportunity for reflection and reflection on the responsibility for our future. End of quote. What is very important, at the beginning of Poland, administrative structures of church and state were created in parallel. This results, among other things. The phenomenon of the Church's inextricable relationship with the nation, which is incomprehensible and questioned by those who do not know this identity and the special character of our Christian heritage. During the work on the law, the date of the establishment of the holiday was discussed. In the Seym, rapporteur Dariusz Piontkowski said, quote: "We do not know the exact date of baptism. However, most historians believe that this was probably the case on the Great Saturday, April 14, 966. This is also the date proposed by the applicants. The date of baptism actually raises discussions because there is no direct text that relates to this event. The day of baptism is generally recognized as April 14th, because on that day in 966 according to the Julian calendar, which is worth noting, because only in the 16th century we moved to the Gregorian calendar, was the Great Saturday. In those centuries, many scholars believe that a solemn baptism was given on the Passover eve. Meanwhile, the researcher, Dr. Jerzy Mańkowski, in the study of Caecitas and Illustratio, Bellum Bonum and Baptism Lives, using a workshop of classical philologists in the study of the chronicle of Wincenty Kadłubek, which described this event, came to other and significant conclusions. He claims that it was not a common practice, and emphasizes that from the source messages it is clear that for many centuries a primitive feast, during which new believers, including new peoples, were received into the Church, was the celebration of Pentecost of the Holy Spirit in the Latin nomenclature of Pentecoste, or more specifically, the Christmas Eve of this festival. In analysing the key sentence of the Kadłubek chronicle, it comes to the conclusion that the most likely date is 2 or 3 June 966 according to the Julian calendar. Considering the delay of this calendar in relation to the actual time of the crossover year, it can be assumed that the baptism of the Living would be preceded by about 16 days celebrated on June 24 the summer solstice, or Sobótka. It could have been so coincidental, and happily submitted, that when the celebration of Pentecost of the Holy Spirit came to the Church in 966, in those days pagan Poland was still celebrating its Green Christmases. If this hypothesis were to be confirmed, it would be necessary to change the time for celebrating the feast for the Christmas Eve of Pentecost. Then, yes, the holiday would be moving, but it would always be Saturday, which is a day off from work, and it would be better to focus on the proper celebration of it. I presented Dr. Mańkowski's argument to the High House. I don't want to settle anything here. I think the dispute over our history will last for a long time. This is an interesting concept that indicates that, in fact, in our lifetime of this historical dispute, we will probably not settle. And that's why accepting the April 14 record is the best option in this situation. The applicants have proposed a date which is quite generally accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u217	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Invited guests! 14 April 2019 for the first time we will be experiencing the National Baptism Day of Poland if the Senate and the President support the bill adopted by the Sejm on 22 February 2019. What is the purpose of the new festival? The reasons for Parliament's decision are concise but sufficient: in order to commemorate the baptism of Poland, dated April 14, 966, given the importance of the decision of Living I, considered as the beginning of the Polish State, the Feast of the Baptism of Poland is adopted. The exact date of baptism by the Living I is unknown, but historians confirm that in the Middle Ages adults were baptized, especially those with important functions, on the Great Saturday. This one fell in 966 according to the Passover books on 14 April. Hence, it is with high probability that this date is considered the beginning of Polish statehood. Why is it necessary to adopt a new festival? After all, we know from history's lesson that the decision to be baptized by the first ruler of Poland was fundamentally state-making. It's true. Until now, however, there has been a lack of clear official commemoration of this event. It has escaped our attention that the beginning of statehood can and should be celebrated with dignity. Since we have been celebrating the recovery of our independent homeland after the partitions for many years, we should also remember its origins. What exactly is the purpose of the new festival? In the original version of the project we read that it is to be the day of national reflection on the heritage of our fathers, on the responsibility of all state authorities, all citizens and each one for our homeland, for its future and prosperity. This celebration should serve as an inspiration for action for the common good. In general, it can therefore be said that it is about the consolidation of the past, which is intended to serve the present and the future. Reflection over ancestral heritage is undoubtedly necessary, especially at a time when the memory of the history of the nation seems to be losing its meaning. It is in a time of relativism and postmodernism that it is worth reminding in various ways that our national roots are soaked in the indigenous values of Christian values for European culture. Baptism of Poland is a symbolic declaration of building a state community based on the highest ethical standards. Remembrance of the gesture Lives I does not imply imposing religious beliefs on anyone, but points to universal norms of social life such as respect, tolerance, cooperation, justice, reconciliation or dialogue. The holiday in question is to be a time of reflection and inspiration for action. In particular, the working environment is an area suitable for expressing our attitude towards the national community. Maybe it is on this day that we should reflect on the quality of our work. Maybe this is a good time to think about the innovations that we can make in a professional environment, as well as the opportunity to ask ourselves how much our professional activity is an effective continuation of the heritage of ancestors. It is also worth reflecting on other zones, wondering, for example, whether contemporary socio-political life in Poland realizes ethical aspirations symbolized in the act of Poland's baptism, or whether our culture, both national and personal, sufficiently emphasizes respect for man, how relations in the family and mutual dialogue of generations look like. Finally, it is worth looking at our personal attitude toward spirituality, wondering how the declarative beliefs and values are reflected in everyday life. The chance for reflection, which opens up with a new holiday, is without a doubt. I believe that interesting and unforced forms of handling will soon develop. Back to roots is always refreshing and creative. Let this also be the memory of the birth of our homeland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u219	Thank you very much. Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the date of baptism, we are not at the moment able to tell when this year 966 took place. Just as we are unfortunately not sure about the place of Poland's baptism. The dispute is between Gniezno, Poznań and Ostrow Lednicki. In fact, most historians are leaning towards the island of Ostrów Lednicki because of the large baptisteries that are located on the duke's palatium discovered there. Moreover, the very location of this castle, very characteristic, with 2 bridges, one from Poznań side, the other from Gniezno side, and the size of this princely centre may indicate that it was one of the central centers of the state of Polen, the States of I, called the state of Gniezno. I'd like to remind you from here, too. But what's supposed to be the key to my speech today is the motives that led our prince to receive this baptism. For many, many recent years, students and students in schools were told that these motives were mainly political, i.e. that Mieszko was baptized because of the German Empire's threat and because of his ambitions as a prince who wanted to unite around his court his subjects and centralize power. Today, after many studies, after many new discoveries and work on this subject, we can begin to revalue this view slowly, including. thanks to researchers of the Poznań school, unfortunately already dead Prof. Gerard Labuda and Prof. Jerzy Strzelczyk. In recent years the works of the American historian, who lives in Poland, Philip Steele, who, like the American school of historiography, including Professor Odahl, who in turn makes an analogy related to the conversion of the Roman Emperor Constantine the Great, looks at the history of Poland in a non-Marxist way. The Marxist School taught us to look at political issues, economic, social and cultural issues Only in a holistic way, where emotions also play a big role... He was tempted to write a work on baptism and the motives behind the fact that the baptism of Mieszko had decided to accept. In a very interesting way he uses concepts which in our message, historical discourse actually had no place so far, namely the religious realism that Mieszko was guided by. Here, just before the discussion on the draft resolution began, Senator Rogut mentioned Dąbrowaka. True, one of the reasons for accepting the Christian faith from the West is connected with the duchess of the Czech Good. 965 Dobravka ad Mesco venit From this year's Cracow Chapter we know that she then arrived in Gniezno, and the following year, in 966... These yearbooks are such short records concerning a given date. At the year 966 we have a record: Mesco dux Polonie baptizatura The time between the arrival of Good One and this baptism is almost a year. Some chroniclers endeavored to present such a plot, saying that it would not allow him to go to bed until he converted to Christian faith and gave up pagan gods. Well, we can regard it as a salvific influence of this Duchess Good not only on the prince himself, but also on the history of Poland. The resolution that we are adopting today is a resolution that should have been adopted long, long ago. This is the foundation, this is the basis for all thinking about Polish statehood. We don't know where we'd be without it or if we'd even be. Now we need to disprove some of the views that have existed so far about the German threat. We had a greater threat on the part of the Western Slavs, because we were fighting with the Western Slavs. Otto's policy, mostly Otto I, wasn't to push east, it was to the south. Just look at how the empire grew. It was in the direction of Italy, because his ambitions were there. When it comes to the arguments for converting, he probably thought, as follows, that one should choose, in a simple way, a stronger god. There's a piece of Professor Odahl's book about Constantine the Great, the Emperor. Okay, I'll remind you. In 313 he issued an edict of Milan that stopped persecuting Christians in Rome. And there's a memory of the famous battle at the Mulvian Bridge where Constantine's troops are fighting against his opponent's troops. He sees a sign in the sky. This is the cross, and underneath it is the Latin inscription "Winner." He is convinced that this God from the cross, this Christian God is stronger. Next thing you know, the bridge is collapsing, and those enemy troops are drowning in the river. Isn't there an analogy to Pharaoh's armies who are lost in the Red Sea? However, such things should be taken into account Philip Steele points that out. In order to be able to analyze the baptism and, above all, the motives. Because right now, the second plan is where it was, and the exact date. For us, it is more important that the Mieszko converts consciously. The adoption of Christendom has fundamental consequences for us, and we should certainly remember that. Therefore, we should only thank you for the resolution being taken, that there is no big discussion and everyone agrees with it. But we're going in one direction. And that's what I'm talking about. But I still think so. We in Poland of Christianity will not expand and strengthen with resolutions and administratively. We only give such sumptuousness on the part of the Senate, because many, many other things need to be repaired and raised in the Republic of Poland so that their civilisation is valued, and whether it pleases or dislikes it, it has grown out of the cross. So it's such a reflection in this place and on this occasion. Long live the City in our memory! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u221	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to add to this a little deeper and broader reflection, to which we often have an opportunity in our political, public life. Indeed, this law and the establishment of this festival create such an opportunity. The speakers here spoke beautifully about history, about roots. It is very important that we also bear witness and as if we deepen and in ourselves, and also in others, for educational reasons, the awareness of our roots, where we come from. Because only with such awareness can we build a future that makes sense. But I would like to draw attention to another issue, namely the actuality of reflection on the Christian tradition, the actuality of today in Poland, but also in Europe. Raising this issue, especially, by Poland, by Poles, is often brought to a certain misunderstanding. It is often pushed aside, or is it impudent, that we refer to some tradition of messianicism, that we want to convert, to re-baptize Europe. I'll leave this thread on the side. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are undoubtedly living in a time when there is a very strong ideological dispute in Europe. Europe is on a turn and we are actually in a dispute about whether Europe is to continue, to look for a new form, but to continue with a certain axiology that emerges from Christianity. In front of us for at least decades, and especially in the last, say, two decades, some competitive ideas and civilizations, competitive towards Christianity, are increasingly visible, more dynamically entering or trying to enter education systems, into narratives. That's what we do. And for me, a paradox is that this competitive narrative, which refers to ideas such as freedom, tolerance, emputates the Christian tradition, is that it is anti-freedom, and meanwhile, if you think about the history of the idea, the history of certain ideal and political concepts, it is clear that the idea of freedom, as we understand it today, means completely free from religious connotations, this idea of freedom, which is today a certain principle of the political system in which we live, without Christianity, would be simply impossible. It is not a coincidence that here in Europe the idea of freedom was born and that we in Europe believe It's like a natural thing. In that man is a free, autonomous entity. It is not a coincidence that this idea was not born in another culture, in another civilization, but here and now. This idea has its obvious Christian genesis and a Christian, religious source. She comes out of the fact that God is kind of interested in the fate of every single man. This is a completely non-experiential, non-naturalistic idea. And she has so inspired societies in Europe that over the centuries our social and political life has begun to form around this idea. One paradox is that, at the time of enlightenment, when the idea of individual freedom as if it were reaching a certain peak, the dispute about the shape of this freedom took place in a dispute with the Church and took on certain garments or forms of fighting religion. The idea of religious tolerance was... a dispute about freedom of conscience which, without Christianity, would have no reason at all, in the form in which it was carried out in the 17th or 18th century, took the form of a conflict or a fight with the Church. And this has become permanent in our post-enlightenment times. Today, many Europeans are convinced that the idea of freedom was born in the fight against the Church. There are indications or arguments about this thesis, but if you go deeper, it turns out that it is based on a complete misunderstanding. Today we are still living in this kind of dispute, so that today some civilization concepts are proposed, saying that Christianity must go away, that Christianity is dogma, that it is an anti-freedom system, and it is said: we propose liberation. Is it liberation, or is it the release of bonds that is visible even in this dispute, which warms us up in recent days or weeks, or is it especially present in Poland? And this is a dispute. In a sense, the concept of man, whether man is a being that is to consume, to be consumed, to be consumed, to be merely a creature seeking pleasure, some fulfillment here and now, or man is a being that has some higher and more important goals that pursues some deeper and higher good. In this dispute, on the one hand, we have a Christian tradition that obviously needs to be modernised, we need to look for new forms of expression for these ideas. On the other hand, the competitive proposal is, in my view and in my understanding, a dead end, simply leading us nowhere. That's why I think it's a good thing and that maybe it's not a coincidence, maybe it's just some particular coincidence that by setting up this holiday today, we have the opportunity and opportunity to deepen our view of history, and from this deepening also emerges who we are and what is the nature of today's dispute, the civilization dispute that takes place in public space in Poland and in Europe. From this past we should draw reasonable conclusions for the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u223	Thank you very much. Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I did not date my esteemed previous speaker about what we are going to talk about, but I will also focus my speech more on the practical aspects of the bill that we are working on. Because you have to ask yourself why in the 21st century in Poland to set a holiday, which refers to something that happened many centuries before. There is no point to me at this moment, when discussing the Law on the Establishment of the Baptism of Poland, whether it was on that day of the week or in another, whether it is the difference of the month or 40 days. I don't think that's relevant right now. And perhaps not by accident, or perhaps by chance, now, in March 2019, we are proceeding with this law. If we were thinking about what happened then, in the X century, or even earlier, in the 9th century, we would come to the conclusion that perhaps it was not a special act on the part of the Prince, because baptisms were already in Polish territory, even in the Vistula state, something natural. In Wiślica, recently announced the smallest city in Poland, the marks of the first baptisms reach the 9th century, because the excavations testify to this. The traces of the Roman temple and the baptismal bowl of the 9th century were discovered. But I repeat, that's not what this is all about. Because does our society really need this bill? I think she needs it very much. It needs rooting, re-rooting in our history and tradition, the renaissance of the mind that needs to come from somewhere, to have some protoplasts, to be established on this earth. I think that's probably the most important point of this bill right now. Let us see the geopolitical situation in Europe, for example. A few decades ago, the creator of the idea of a united Europe, Robert Schumann, said that Europe's value is a Europe of values, that Europe will be Christian or not at all. Even the symbols of a united Europe are clearly connected with the image of Our Lady, with her crown of stars. For many, I suspect that also in Poland, it is a historical, perhaps quite embarrassing raid. Fortunately, for many, however, this is not random, and it is not meaningless. As well as the baptism of Poland, which took place on 14 April 966. Paradoxically it can be said that now, in 2019, we have a chance to repay this debt that he owed to the Christian Catholic countries of Europe in the X century Prince of Mieszko. Then we were baptized by those who had received it before. They brought Christianity to our lands, so officially and publicly, as some have said here. We now, perhaps for 60 days, if I count well, 60 days before the elections to the Europarlament, in which we will have our more than 50 people representation, remind Poles, but not only Poles, that the nations and states of Europe have been connected with Christianity for centuries, we remind it symbolically also by this law. She is also needed in our daily lives, so that the defenders of these simplest values, such as family, a certain social order, have weapons in their hands, have arguments. Now this argument is very difficult. Consider how long it takes for us to live. We have to face various kinds of phenomena, very worrying from the point of view of the state, its stability, demography, often these phenomena take the form of several letters of the alphabet arranged not in turn. I hope that we will raise our hands in favour of this law with this awareness that we are giving a signal, we are giving some weapons and for educational reasons, which has already sounded in the statements of the rapporteur senator, all of this is extremely important. Perhaps it is a little embarrassing that as a Catholic I do not remember what day I was baptized, but from the moment we adopt this law, I will know that being a Catholic, being a Christian, as a Pole, I was baptized on April 14, 966. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I was wondering why the idea for this law, not for a resolution, but for a law on the fact that on April 14, 966. Poland was baptized and even the Polish nation was baptized. What I'm trying to say is that this is a bill completely ahistorical. Well, it cannot be decided in the Senate that on 14 April a baptism took place, because even with regard to the annual date discussions are ongoing, whether it was 996 or maybe 995 or maybe 997. Released here, in this parliament, on the solemn anniversary of a book or an album under the honorary patronage of two marshals, present Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate... In this book, when it's written about the baptism of Poland, it's... In this book, edited by Prof. Paruch, you can read: the traditional date of the event for the year 966 can be burdened with a slight error... is known only from the records of the 13th century. A minor mistake, of course. It's either a year earlier or a year later. All right, only in historical science has it been accepted that it was the year 996. But where did the day date come from on April 14th? Well, you can't make a day date. What are we doing? We're decrypting without looking at historian's research. What if these tests indicate June 14th or June 27th? Careful. Well, you have to think about it. The Senate, the Sejm, and the Senate is especially a very serious institution and must take itself seriously. When I heard about this initiative, I thought someone had gossiped or wanted to create a situation for me and for many of my friends surprising. This initiative is about declaring or saying that we have been baptized, that we are connected with Christian culture. In the justification of the authors, and in principle the author writes that in society awareness of the fact that Mieszko, and thus the Polish state was baptized in 966, is negligible. Well, it's surprising to me. Dear Senators, do you think that the knowledge of Poles and Poles is really so small that it is necessary to remind about baptism in a resolution? [[It's on the bill.]] Many times there were resolutions which I was surprised to see arose because they concerned matters either obvious, or those which did not require a resolution because of their importance. I do not have the impression that Poles need to be reminded of Poland's baptism, nor do I have the impression that this kind of resolution will protect us from everything. As far as I've heard... I already know what's going on, because I was wondering what's going on in this resolution, a couple of jobs anyway. Well, it is probably about resisting this rotten West, the depraved European Union. That is why this resolution makes sense and that is why it was created. This isn't the way! And this is not the way to strengthen Christianity in Poland. For this strengthening of Christianity in Poland, well, works very hard, among others. Pope Francis. And even to strengthen this Christianity, he came here recently last week, Secretary of State Parolin, Cardinal Parolin. Because those who rule in the Polish Church are probably not extremely Christian, so he came. Nor will this resolution cause us to be more decent people, that we will be more honest, that we will obey the Ten Commandments more. And it will not cause us to start Christianizing the European Union 'Cause that's what I've heard. That's why I'm surprised. This is another resolution of this kind... [[The bill.]] ...like a resolution that was supposed to be Did, I guess, she's already been about Christ's intronization as king of Poland. [[There wasn't such a...]] There were such initiatives, of course, completely extreme. But seriously on this topic in Poland began to be discussed. To me, the question is, where's the line? I understand the importance of Poland's baptism, the millennium of Poland's baptism, well, even in the days of Gomelka. And I remember what happened back then. Then you had to fight for a certain tradition, for the independence of the Church. Do we have a situation like this now? What do you want to fight for? To remove the European Union? To show that the European Union is evil and we are good because we are baptized? This is not a project that I can accept. This is not a project that is a good project. I'm surprised this project is being processed today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u227	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed to item 9 of the agenda tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1097, and the report of the Commission In print No 1097 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure to present to the High Senate a position on the Act on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities. This law implements Directive 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on the accessibility of Member States' websites and mobile applications. This is a rather short and necessary act containing 27 articles. The aim of this law is to ensure the accessibility of digital websites, including those whose task is to promote people with disabilities and older people, and to promote health and protect children. This availability will be implemented with regard to common accessibility requirements. The Act indicates the need to ensure the availability of a digital website and prepare for it such functionalities that a person who cannot use a computer mouse will be able to use the keyboard to move from one side to the other, from bookmark to bookmark, increase and reduce font or increase contrast. However, it should be stressed that the law balances the need to ensure digital accessibility with the need for a proportionate burden on public entities and the NGOs I mentioned. The provisions of the Act indicate that where the availability of a digital website or the material contained therein would be disproportionate to the expenditure, this availability may be provided in an alternative manner. This can be done by reading the content by the phone to the person concerned or sending it files in an accessible format, e.g. to the e-mail address. In the case of deaf people it is possible to provide contact by means of a sign language translator, including via electronic communication. Several amendments were examined during the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. It was 17 amendments that were proposed by the Senate Legislative Office. One amendment was tabled by Senator Jan Hamerski. There was also a heated discussion about the role of non-governmental organisations, of course with the participation of the public. The committee was attended by representatives of 10 such organisations. The votes were in favour of leaving within the scope of the subjective law those organisations whose purpose is to help disabled people and older people and those whose aim is to protect and promote health. These organisations will not be required to ensure digital accessibility when this entails excessive costs, but this will not apply to those organisations which are mostly publicly funded. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! After the discussion, the Committee on Infrastructure adopted 7 amendments, 5 of which were tabled by the committee president, Senator Biesiołek. These were editorial amendments proposed by the Senate Legislative Office. On the other hand, one of those amendments which the government did not agree to was tabled by the senator... Then I'll remember the senator. Anyway, she was accepted. The remaining 5 amendments, which the Legislative Office also proposed, were submitted by Senator Florek, but they were rejected, were not accepted. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I propose that the High Senate adopt the bill with the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u229	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill's been... [[There are questions.]] [[They're ……]] Who wants to ask a question? Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I would like to know why entities dealing with persons with disabilities have been excluded from their duties, and why so many NGOs operating in the sphere of public benefit have not been excluded.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u231	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u232	Mr. Senator, you're asking me why? It was simply not at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee and this was not considered. Such a problem has not been considered.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u233	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u234	Thank you. Senator rapporteur, was the matter discussed at the committee meeting... [[Voice from the room: Press.]] It's pressed. I have to scream. ...Availability, sharing of websites in the field of confidential, secret information, including of course military-related information? This bill doesn't limit it. We can assume that everyone will be very careful in providing such sites. What would be on them? Another question. It's about NGOs. They, of course, are also meant to share their pages. I would like to point out that NGOs... It's from 3 to thousands of people. And the costs are high because they involve not only sharing, but also updating. Was it necessary for all NGOs to do so? There's also a phrase here about deadlines. Wait a minute. Sorry. Something happened to that clock. [[Senator, let me remind you that you have one minute to ask a question.]] I'll fit in. On page 12, it is stated that accessibility should be ensured no later than 7 days after the date of the application, as someone will make a request. This is a very short time, only 7 days. Next: If this does not come true, an answer must be given immediately.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u235	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u236	Confidential matters shall be governed by separate laws. Of course, what is available is to be made available. The point is that people with disabilities have the same access to information as those with disabilities. It's just about making things easier, it's about making things easier. It talks about accessibility for all, but special attention is paid to people with disabilities, so that they are not deprived of information that can have full-time people. That's what this is all about. And confidential matters... This was not even considered at all, because it is known that some information cannot be available for both the disabled and the disabled. It doesn't matter if the person is full-time or disabled. This law does not concern this issue at all. Are all the organizations... Here's the shut-down. If there were excessive costs, if it involved excessive costs, then organisations that are not financed by public funds... They're fired. But there is no exemption for those who simply have public funds. It is known that then such organizations can hire themselves some professional who in a way... It was said that it wouldn't be much of a cost, because the ministry would just prepare a matrix for it, and then in a fairly easy way, that is, from the website, or in a quite cheap way, it would simply be possible for such an organization to meet the requirements of the law. I remember, by the way, that the amendment I was talking about, which was accepted, was tabled by Senator Włosowicz. From what I remember. I remembered in the middle of it. [[Thank you. There's no more...]] [[What's the deadline?]] What's the deadline? Not more than seven days. It was simply accepted. If organisations have matrixes and already prepared bases to make available to disabled people at all, let's say, that information which is presented to full-timers, then I think that these 7 days are not a long time. Because it's nothing new. Just the whole tool will be prepared, only within this tool... you just have to provide these people with disabilities access. I think it's because of that. Because you don't need a long deadline or a shorter deadline. Seven days, I think, enough to... [[For a better understanding, I'll read it. May I?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u237	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u238	The availability of a digital website, mobile app or website element or a public entity mobile application shall be ensured without undue delay, but no later than 7 days after the request has been made. Do you think a website can be done properly within 7 days? Has this been discussed?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u239	But no, no. This isn't about the website, because the website... [[It's a guarantee.]] I mean, there'll be matrices prepared by the ministry... [[It doesn't say...]] ...and these tools will have NGOs. Only up to 7 days from what I understand This information is to be provided at all. Up to a maximum of 7 days. Preferably as soon as they're handed over. [[In an hour.]] [[Is the website okay?]] As far as the senator's concerned, why don't you... This was not considered in such detail at the committee meeting. Maybe those who prepared the bill... Minister... [[Yeah, let's leave some more questions to the government.]] ...he's got a lot of knowledge and that's what she learned at the committee meeting. Because there was a discussion that lasted over two hours. It was a very turbulent discussion on various subjects... Well, I think the people who prepared this know more than I do. [[I'm sure.]] If that's not enough for the senator, I suggest that the Minister answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u240	Good. Are there any more questions for the senator? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Applause]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: If you have any questions...]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Come on in, Minister. Senator Augustine. [[Here, in the corner, please...]] Excuse me? [[Yeah.]] Good. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u241	Minister, two questions. As you know, NGOs are private entities. Why do you, in a law that concerns public entities, include non-governmental organisations without specifying in the dictionary a new definition of the concept of a public entity for this law? I think it's a serious legal defect. That's one thing. Either the title should be changed, or the vocabulary should be different from the definition of a public entity in the whole legislation. There isn't one or the other. Secondly, on what substance you wish to include the requirements of this law NGOs in very selected I'm just curious on the basis of what criteria Out of the 33 areas of public benefit, 3 areas: promotion and health care, activities for people with disabilities, from which you then withdraw... I don't know why it fits in, if then, if it's too expensive, you can't do it. But if it's too expensive for people who care about protection and health promotion, then no, you have to do it. And I was most surprised that all prosenior organisations, working for pensioners, for example, are covered by this. the ones working for young people no longer. So I'm curious, what was that enough, I think, joyful legislative work. [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: Is that all right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u242	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u243	Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I'm gonna take advantage of the fact that I have to speak anyway. I must tell you that this really is an important and good bill. This is the first law of the.Availability +. It aims to compensate for the disparities that occur in the case of persons with disabilities. Of course, we are not able to solve all the problems with one law, but it is a step towards people with disabilities, a step towards meeting their needs. As to the senator's question... I think the answer to the second question will be much shorter, despite the fact that it was longer. This is due to the very wording of the directive which the law implements. So that it was not a joyful work, it was a translation of the directive into our legal order. Well, the thing is, you gotta start somewhere. It is known that the Directive defines a framework. There's nothing to rule out that in the end... [[I'm sure it doesn't cover more...]] But remember, Senator, this... [[Calm down, please.]] ...that, in addition to the directive, there is also a decision implementing it. The rapporteur also talked about the fact that the directive itself is quite short, but there is also a decision implementing this directive, which adds a lot. So that's what this is about. As I understand it, in the next part of the second question, you were talking about the exclusion that arises from the article. 8. And here's an inaccuracies. She appeared in the middle of a discussion. Public entity, excluding entities referred to in Article. Point 2 of the first paragraph is not non-governmental organisations, because these are in point 5 of which the public task is to carry out activities in favour of disabled persons or older persons may not ensure the availability of a digital website or mobile application if it would entail excessive costs. That's the way the article came out. Sorry about the colloquialism. From the Sejm as a result of the call of the social side, which in our opinion rightly pointed out that there are NGOs and NGOs. There are NGOs that operate not only locally, but on a national and even international scale, they have very large budgets. Such organisations, of course, are able to afford many additional activities and additional facilitations that they are introducing, such as small organisations, dozens of people, with a budget that is really small. And yet our goal is not to make it difficult for such organizations to function. That's the answer to question two. Referring to the first question, that is to say, to the conceptual network that we have introduced by law, I will say that this doubt has already appeared in the Digitization Commission of the Sejm. In fact, there is no definition of a public entity in the vocabulary. However, the Act is called the Act on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities. And in this law in Article. 2 we point out to which entities the law applies, so in this way, well, according to the principles of legislation it can be considered as... not directly, of course, but as a definition of a public entity which indicates its scope. There is no question of interpretation. How the senator's gonna open his art. Two and read... Well, we don't see any potential difficulties here for people who are going to analyze these legal standards. That's the conceptual grid we used. It's not much, it's a conceptual network, and it's also in a different bill, just so I don't lie, I don't remember what the bill was... I know we've been inspired... I can give you that information later. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u244	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u245	I want to repeat the question about the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, where it is indicated that provision of availability should take place without undue delay but no later than 7 days. It's illogical, without undue delay, but no later than seven days... or maybe it should be like this: without undue delay, but no later than three years from now... It's illogical. [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: Okay, I'll explain that too...]] It's the first thing why these seven days. And in the following paragraph, it is stated that if there is no such availability, then it is also necessary to reply immediately, and that a period of not more than 2 months from the date on which the request is made. Here quickly, and the answer to any doubt Only after 2 months.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u246	Mr. Senator, it seems to me that it is necessary to clarify that entities that will have to adapt their websites and mobile applications to the requirements of the Act are not entities that will be required to do so within 7 days or 2 months. Here, above all, we are talking about providing information and alternative access. In other words, if there is such a situation that an entity for some reason cannot ensure that some information is available digitally on its website, some elements of its website, in accordance with Article. Eight, if I remember correctly... No, no, just a second, I'll find it... Anyone shall be able to request such an entity to provide alternative access. And that's what it's supposed to be like alternative access, or something like that. in the form of reading, handing over this information by telephone, or describing them, it also appears in its request. And if such an entity, say the office, receives such a request, it is to proceed without undue delay, no later than 7 days. But you also have to bear in mind that these demands may have different scopes, so of course sometimes you can do it right away, and sometimes you have to wait a while, you have to do some extra work.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, the Act imposes certain obligations on the Minister responsible for computerization and says, in the transitional provisions, when it is to be carried out for the first time. E.g. the time limit for the first monitoring shall be laid down in Article. 23, date of the first report to the European Commission 24. I therefore have a question when the first list will be completed when it will be completed and published on the Minister's website a list of web addresses and mobile applications, the first one. Then, of course, he will be changed. When can we expect this? Because it's not in the transitional rules, there's no time limit imposed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u249	As you rightly pointed out, according to the article. 23 The Minister responsible for IT shall carry out the first monitoring of the parties by 22 December 2020 and the time limit for mobile applications shall be 20 December 2021. As for the reports, if I remember correctly I don't want to twist anything. There is a deadline of 3 months. And here I have to... Did I say that right? [[Deputy Director of the Legal Department at the Ministry of Digitalisation Sylvester Szczepaniak: Yes.]] Yeah, three months? Good. [[I'm sorry, Minister, you didn't answer the question I put in my thesis. I think you've rehearsed your thesis.]] These are 3 months from the dates indicated in Article. 23.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u250	Again. This list of websites and mobile applications is drawn up by the Minister on the basis of certain activities... [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: Yes.]] ...e.g. President of the Central Statistical Office. They are defined on a yearly basis, i.e. until February 28th, April 30th... Please note that, theoretically, the Minister would not be able to do so now, if he were to do so by 30 April, if he had not had no basis in the report of the President of the Central Statistical Office. So this is where these dates go. There should simply be one act, one explicit provision: the list of websites and mobile applications is to appear on the BIP website, on the website of the Minister responsible for IT by this and this day. And there's no such rule here. That's what I was trying to draw attention to.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u251	I'm sorry, but we need to clear something up here. Are we talking about the list that the Minister is drawing up, or are we talking about the monitoring results here? 'Cause that's what... [[We're talking about an art list. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4.]] [[Why don't you give the Minister a written reply?]] No, no, that's okay. One second. I understand he's here... Okay, now I understand the question. I understand that the question is whether... I'm just gonna paraphrase that question just so I'm convinced. According to your mouth. 4 the Minister responsible for IT by 30 April each year publishes on his website... Yes? Is that the term? You're afraid, senator, that because we're in one reality, not another, the minister won't make it. Yes? [[Yes.]] Well, I'll be honest with you, that doubt seems reasonable. If you don't mind, we'll examine this and address this question in writing. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u252	I've got further concerns. He may not make it so far as he doesn't want to make it at all, because it was not imposed on him by the law, in the transitional provision, the date from which this list should be included. Well, that's easy. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Digital Wanda Buk: No, but...]] If we create an institution, we say this: this institution should start functioning at this time and at that time, at that time. If she's not here, then, I'm sorry, we're taking the minister to the rug, and if she is, that's good, because that means he made the bill. But here, the legislator doesn't require it. It imposes an obligation but does not specify the deadline for fulfilling that obligation. The point is, there's no transitional provision. Think about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u253	Good. I understand that given this deadline and today's date, we need to analyze it. Thank you, Senator. Well, then, we'll analyze it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u254	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u255	The Minister, or the penalties that are foreseen here for not fulfilling the requirement to ensure digital accessibility and which are to be paid by public entities... They still have the right to refuse, to justify, etc. Are these penalties and these possibilities of refusal also applicable to NGOs?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u256	Absolutely. If they're subject to... [[And based on what recipe?]] On the basis of the provisions of the Act, if they are not exempted. Please pay attention to Art. 19...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u257	Minister, NGOs are not defined as part of public entities, as I have already pointed out in the first question. [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: Mr. Senator...]] This therefore applies strictly to public entities and not to non-governmental organisations which are not by definition public entities.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u258	Mr. Senator, I'm referring you to the article again. 2, which defines the subject-matter of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u259	If there were a reservation in this provision, as in many other places, that this applies to the provisions you are referring to, you would be right, but that is not the case in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u260	Mr. Senator, then let's agree that we disagree. This was analysed by the legislators from the offices and at the level of the Sejm, and at the level of the Senate. These doubts were not formulated as you are at this point in time. I believe that the scope of the bill is clear. The scope of the Act is also clear. [[One more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u261	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u262	The bill shall state the cost. I'm sorry to ask you this. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Digital Wanda Buk: Sure.]] I haven't been to this committee meeting, and that's why I'm asking now. [[Why weren't you?]] Please? [[Why weren't you?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Why?]] Because I couldn't be on everyone, Mr. Marshal. I don't think you were either, I guess. [[You should attend committee meetings.]] So I'm asking because there are financial implications. Will the money that is indicated here be able to be used by NGOs? Are these the consequences of the implementation of this law for the public finance sector?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u263	Of course, these are the consequences of the implementation of this law for the public finance sector. These are not additional resources for NGOs... [[I see. They have to finance it themselves.]] Absolutely. However, I would like to draw attention to one point. [[Sure.]] According to the law, the Minister responsible for IT takes additional activities, which are supposed to minimize the "if we have to call it that" These inconveniences. But I don't want to call it that, given that at the end of the day, it's going to be a convenience, but rather a level playing field for people with disabilities. The Minister responsible for IT will provide training, provide e-handbooks on how to customize his/her website. Please bear in mind that mostly These are editorial activities. These are not IT skills that require highly qualified experts. To a large extent, it is a matter of making a given entity create a declaration of availability to refine the contrast to refine the font. So that here I would not demonize those obligations that are imposed on public entities. At the same time, I point out that they will have far-reaching good consequences for those who today are somewhat excluded from using the information published on the pages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u264	Already? Mr. Senator Silence. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u265	I have a question, Minister. Namely, in the article. 8, where certain entities are exempted from this digital availability, if this involves excessive costs... My question is: who slows down and in what form? And whether he is entitled to refuse exemption e.g. An appeal?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u266	Here we need to take into account how monitoring is carried out. And now, if the entity concerned finds that it is not subject to the law, then of course it does not have to do so. To be sure, he can always ask the Minister of Digitization. There's no problem with that. We always provide this kind of information, even in individual cases. However, if we do so that the entity unwarrantedly disables itself, we will now move on to the entire monitoring process. And please note that if it turns it off really, let's say, in good faith... We have the option of imposing a penalty only in a situation where, in an unjustified and persistent manner, it does not ensure the availability of a digital website. The definition of persistence is at the next point and says that the persistent failure to ensure the availability of a digital website or app is the lack of improved accessibility in the 3 subsequent monitoring referred to in Article. 12 point 2. So this entity will still have a lot of time to adapt its website if, in good faith, it turned it off wrongly. Of course, this doesn't apply to the administration. This is apparent from the mouth. Point 3 (1). To the rest, of course, the Code of Administrative Procedure applies. And that's the end of it. So if it's imposed... I'm just gonna explain it, because I see the senator would like to ask. If punishment is imposed by a decision of the Minister, then of course the entire appeal procedure will be granted, in accordance with the Code of Administrative Procedure, because this is carried out in an administrative manner. [[Including the Supreme Administrative Court, of course. Yes?]] Now, as I understand it, you're asking me when the cancellation is due, and I should remember this from college... But I don't remember. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Good. [[All right. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u267	Thank you. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Digital Wanda Buk: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senators Czerwinski and Augustyn. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! It was wrong for our team to work with NGOs to miss this bill. I missed her, too, 'cause I'd be bringing her up... [[There's no such band.]] Okay, well, I didn't exactly name it because it was broken up with a long tradition of naming, a dozen years old. But . regardless of that name. It is a pity, because we could look closely at these regulations with NGOs. Of course, digital accessibility, readability of communications is in the interests of everyone, including the interests of organisations, in the interests of those who benefit from their assistance, regardless of what sector or sector of public benefit they operate in. By introducing provisions in this area of digitalisation, we must It is also an appeal to the Ministry to know digitally generated statistics on the possibilities of these organizations, finance, human resources that are there, the number of people who work there as volunteers, the age they have and what digital competences they have. It's common for computer scientists to think that they all know what they know. I have some great IT guys in my family who don't understand that I don't understand something. Minister, I would like to draw attention to the very serious risks that this law poses and to the very serious shortcomings that it has. Firstly, if we have general references in the Act and use certain wordings, and they are not defined in this Act, they refer to the wordings which are commonly applicable, which also appear in other laws. And you don't define public entities for this bill, so you could say... Okay, okay, you're writing who you're talking about, but in later articles, the state has no objection and no recourse to the article. 20 points and individual points you're talking about public entities. So, whether we like it or not, we are doing a lot of legislative inaccuracies here. You can't just do that. I don't know how our Legislative Office worked, whether it had time at all, because lately it's been so often that there's not even time to work on laws. If that's what happened... [[In February, she was admitted...]] If that is the case, I believe that this is a serious failure. This isn't right. This bill makes it unclear, it really doesn't know who's involved. Ladies and gentlemen, the second very serious flaw, resulting from a little bit of the first one, is that we have unequal treatment of different actors here. We have here a situation where public finance actors are treated better than NGOs, money is for the public finance sector, there is no money for the non-governmental sector. The public finance sector may appeal, may not implement this law, as you said a moment ago, and if it was doing it in good faith, it is safe for it, but unfortunately it does not apply to NGOs, because they are not covered by the definition I was talking about. Various NGOs are also treated differently. An example of the unequal treatment of non-governmental sector entities, NGOs and other actors is also that those identified in points 1 and 4 are not NGOs, because they are indicated in point 5 if they work for the benefit of the disabled, but the costs are too high, they may not do so, but NGOs are no longer, because point 5 is excluded from this. [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: Inversely.]] Well, here it is, different treatment of NGOs. Really, Minister, if it was a concern that people with disabilities should have reliable information from websites, i.e. those organisations that are described in point 7 of Article 7. The 4th Public Benefit Act, I agree with that, but why there are no such ones as are described in point 1 when it refers to social assistance communities, I don't know that anymore. Why should this apply to senior organisations and those who work in promoting and protecting health, and in many other areas they do not? I really don't know. For this, Minister, I can be sure that not only individuals in the public finance sector will have difficulties in meeting such strict rules as regards the date of these changes, but the whole non-governmental sector will have great problems with this. And I consider this request, the request contained in this law to be absolutely reckless and unenforceable. It's impossible. Maybe in a group of 90,000 organizations, I don't know exactly how much it works in these sectors, but it's certainly over 20,000, it's feasible for a few percent. It is important to be aware that older people work in senior organisations, mainly older people, whose digital competences are defined as satisfactory in 23%, i.e. the least in the European Union. So we say to these people: you have 7 days; if you happen to have a website, you have 7 days to prepare it according to standards. I know what's gonna happen, how you can get out of this: you can take out the page. But the result will be counterproductive. That's why I think, Minister... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. ...that this bill should be corrected. I'm making a proposal to... It's something to think about. Because I share the intentions, you have to strive for the web sites of NGOs, especially those operating in some spheres, but it would have to be well thought in which, and have strong arguments for it, that in these and in others not... This will be done, but we also need to give these organizations opportunities, resources and... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...use the deadlines that are feasible for them. That is why I propose that we waive this intention to include NGOs in these regulations at the moment and work on the revision in consultation with non-governmental organisations. Nothing will happen if we do this with much greater consideration, decently, non-discriminatoryly, given the real possibilities of the third sector. I don't think there are any other calls, so I'd like to sign up for the second time. [[There's another call.]] Yes? I'm gonna... I'm gonna... Unless you allow me to say three more sentences. [[Three sentences, we're dating three sentences. That's gonna be a second statement, right?]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us not make this mistake that we have already made. It is March, the end of March, NGOs join the financial statements. Here's what's happening. It turns out that since this year all non-governmental organisations under the revised Article. 45 will have to do it either with an electronic signature or an ePUAP. This is a straight path to this... I am immersed in this environment, I personally know the heads of dozens of NGOs who hold their heads and carry on with the intention of eliminating their activities, because, subjectively, this is beyond their current capabilities. Let's not make that mistake again. Requirements that are over measure, either ridicule themselves or counterproductive.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, one can wonder whether this law, which has been passed, of course, in order to implement European Union law, does not impose excessive requirements on non-governmental organisations. What are NGOs? These are forms of organizing free people into certain institutions for certain tasks which, if not for these organisations, would have to be carried out by the State. So these organisations, you can say, exist for certain noble purposes and cannot be burdened with too far-reaching responsibilities. The old rule of Roman law says that impossibilum nulla obligatio, which is where something is impossible, has no obligation. Therefore, there is a requirement that these organisations should be subject to all these rigors, albeit relaxed in Article. Eight, if you read it correctly. I can see the Minister reading it well, of course, and I heard her protesting against the interpretation that my previous speaker gave. But this article is indeed, to be honest, so intricately written, that I also read it first as Senator Augustine did. Therefore, I have a proposal to change it. So change it so that at first glance it is clear, not after some inquisitive analysis and it is done necessarily by a lawyer. After all, not everyone is a lawyer, and certainly not a great majority of those who run NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen, given what NGOs are like... Pretty recently, I've dealt with very noble people who form the Sibiract Union. Come on, old folks. Can we imagine that they will meet these requirements? It would be inhumane to demand them. Without financial resources or, by age, talents to run such websites and use the Internet at all I want them to make sure of that. I have a little friendly proposal here to change this article. 8, so that it is clear and does not lead to such absurdities that we would require a Sibiract Association to meet the requirements that are impossible for them to meet. Namely, I propose that art. 8 is replaced by the following: a non-governmental organisation may not ensure the availability of a digital website or mobile app if this would entail excessive costs or difficulties for it. I purposely included an alternative here, because there might be an organization that might even have some money in a given year to lead these matters, but given the elderly, the helpless... Well, it's gonna be hard for them to find, to reach out to some computer guy who can provide them with that kind of service. And the other way around. Sometimes they won't have any resources, although if they did, maybe they'd find someone. Ladies and gentlemen, in your mouth. 2 in turn would be needed - which would be a consequence of the amendment of the paragraph. 1. Such a statement that a public entity, except the case referred to in paragraph, shall be made public. 1, i.e. the one whose revised content I have read, provides in particular... etc. That's where all the requirements are written. The consequence of the proposal is the content of the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is also a change in the paragraph. 3, where instead of the wording "public entity', the wording "non-governmental organisation' would be used. Well, I notice it's not very fortunate, but it's a way of editing... it's not very fortunate to involve NGOs in public entities, because it conflicts with the common understanding of these two words. But unfortunately, the legal language has this to it, as they have taught us in law, that sometimes we use some simplifications and definitions of the type of fish, which has always been one of the elements of a humorous lecture on the law. So that I allow myself to make such proposals in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u271	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czelej made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by Senators Martynowski, Augustyn and Cichoń. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u272	I'll address Senator Augustine first. Mr. Senator, nearly 60 NGOs participated in the public consultation. Nearly 300 comments were submitted, of which the main majority was taken into account. You're proposing to shut down all non-governmental organisations. It's a shame you didn't attend the committee meeting yesterday, and you didn't have the opportunity to listen... [[I attended five committee meetings yesterday.]] I see. I just regret that you have not had the opportunity to listen to the participants of the committee meeting and listen to the voices of people with disabilities who operate in such organisations, such organisations run and which 100% they support the regime under this law, because they simply, simply need this information in digital form. I understand that there is one vote that appeared yesterday at the committee meeting and which has appeared from the very beginning. However, it would also be good to consider and examine what this person was talking about. Because what had been reported, the specific votum separatum was not justified at all. It was said that we would not really save children and adults by means of the Digital Accessibility Act. However, the person who submitted this remark, and still in this form, because I understand that in the end through this bill people will simply die, 17 times would have adapted their website already. The templates are already available. This is really... It's not as demanding as you put it here. I said these are mostly editorial changes. There are templates available, there are trainings available. And I'm moving on. You said it again, even though I've already explained it, standing here, that it's not a seven-day deadline to adjust the site. Please note the wording of the article. 27. He talks about dates when you need to customize your websites and mobile applications. And one more thing that the senator mentioned, which is the means. You said there was a preference for public entities and not for non-governmental organisations. Well, I'd say it's the other way around. Because if you pay attention to who and for what is being punished, it will turn out that as far as public finance actors are concerned, as regards the authorities that are required to publish their information in the Public Information Bulletin, there is no such exemption as in the case of non-governmental organisations, i.e. there is no unjustified and persistent lack of availability. So there is no ventilation, which is for NGOs, which allows us to make a mistake and adapt later if they did so in good faith. An entity in the public finance sector, one that must run the Public Information Bulletin, will always be subject to this penalty. So I would say that it is the other way around when it comes to these preferences, who we treat lighter and who we treat harsher. What's more, you've said about the resources that are destined for this. Please note that the measures we are talking about are not the means for this department to adjust its website. Here we have estimated the costs associated with the fact that now the Minister of Digitization will have to undertake a number of additional activities. He's gonna have to monitor, he's gonna run the controls, he's gonna run the investigation. And that's the means. So I would like to clarify these doubts in this respect. Mr. Senator Silence I wrote it down here, he said that non-governmental organisations could not be burdened too much. 100% We agree, you can't burden them too much. Therefore, when these are excessive costs, this is an exclusion. We don't want to burden such organizations. These organisations will not then be obliged to carry out these additional activities. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u273	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Road Transport Act. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1099 and the report of the committee In print No 1099 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u274	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Mr. Rector! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Act is an application for an implementing regulation of the European Commission. It is intended to ensure that the data contained in the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs kept by the Chief Road Transport Inspector are accessible to all competent authorities of other Member States. The amendment also proposes amendments aimed at clarifying the existing rules. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Am I disturbing you? Because you're disturbing me a little bit, to tell you the truth. [[Gentlemen, senators, senator Augustine, senator Florek, please remain silent.]] I don't want to disturb you in this discussion. [[You can't hear me, gentlemen.]] I'm sorry, but I'm a little distracted. The registration of undertakings authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator will be extended to include data on registration numbers and the country of registration of vehicles authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator, notified by the trader after obtaining such authorisation on the list of vehicles. This is a very important law on road transport, even the most important of which is discussed at this Senate meeting. This law was presented by Minister Bittel and the Director of the Road Transport Department, Mr Bogdan Oleksiak, present at the committee meeting. The senators, sensing the seriousness of this law, refrained from asking unnecessary questions and, in particular, refrained from discussing this law because it is transparent and understandable. We have therefore taken a vote in which the law has received the full support of the members of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u275	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Andrzej Bittel, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1114 and the report of the Commission In print No 1114 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Krystian Probierza, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the committee related to the amendment of the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. At the outset, some information on the purpose of this law. Well, among these objectives are listed among others. clarification of the catalogue of statutory tasks of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. It further confirmed the feasibility of development cooperation activities with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology and the involvement of the agencies in the implementation of international programmes. Another objective was to confirm the feasibility of carrying out tasks on the basis of joint venture agreements concluded with other entities. A very important objective, which has been underlined, is to strengthen the competences and powers of the Polish Agency for the Development of Entrepreneurship in the field of verifying the data of the applicants and to enable the payment of financial assistance and the refusal to provide financial assistance in connection with ongoing criminal or criminal proceedings to be suspended. One of the reasons for the changes in this law was the proposal for a change in the supervisory system for the activities of PARP, including the liquidation of the supervisory board. As far as legislative comments are concerned, six amendments have been tabled, but, as it is said, abrasion of views between the legislator and the Ministry's representative has clarified some misunderstandings and limited this number of amendments to four, as I will talk about. Then there was a discussion. In this discussion, we asked why supervisory boards are being removed. It aroused the greatest interest. Well, the response from the ministry was simple. Because it is not a public limited company that supervision of the agency's financial economy is such and so, about it the Public Finance Act says that the agency's financial plan is subject to control. The Minister said that maybe only two agencies have supervisory boards. It was also asked about the award method, because there was an introduction of the possibility of awarding prizes within the meaning of European Union rules, among others. prizes for innovation, environmental activities or cooperation with science. Well, the Minister said that the tools used to date were inadequate and gave an example that in competitions organized by the agency the winner could not get a prize for it he could apply for a grant. It was just as if it wasn't appropriate for the situation. Well, it was not possible to reward actions in the field of this green economy, in terms of implementation or in terms of innovation. By the way, I would like to say that there have been compliments on the quality of legislative work. According to this, the members of the committee who made such a statement show a very small number of comments about this quality. Everyone welcomed it. Compliments were also received on the work of the legislator. It's just a curiosity. And, ladies and gentlemen, there's been a vote. These 4 proposed amendments received a majority. Amendments were tabled concerning, inter alia, delete the point concerning the liquidation of the supervisory board. This did not obtain a majority, and therefore a minority request was made in this case. Now let me briefly present these 4 comments that have been accepted. The first concerns Article. 1 and the point is to delete the words "in the meaning of the business law'. That's a clarification. The second point concerns Article. 1 point (2) (a) d and this is about explaining what education units are. It was all about clarification. These words have been replaced by the wording of the entities referred to in that Article. 2 of the Law of 14 December 2016 on the Law of Education. So it's been made clear. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have an amendment that adds a paragraph. 5 as I will allow myself to read in extenso: the Agency may carry out activities aimed at adapting education to the needs of the economy, in particular by involving employers in the system of identifying and forecasting skills and occupation needs in the labour market and creating conditions for active cooperation between entrepreneurs from particular sectors of the economy with universities and entities referred to in Article. 2th Law of the Law of Education. And the third amendment: point 2 is replaced by the following: to undertake and develop initiatives to stimulate cooperation between entrepreneurs, entities referred to in Article. 7... It's about the law on higher education. I'm making a shortcut here. And then there's point 8 in lithium. and in the amendment order, after the words in paragraph. A colon is added. So that's the point, let's say, of the editorial nature. And, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth amendment. The point is to add the words "within the limits laid down in Article." Article 6b (6) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 11 Act as amended by Article. 1, as amended by this Act. And these are the amendments we're going to make. There's also a minority request that I'm sure you'll be referring to Senator Augustine. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, in a moment, perhaps there will be questions for you. But now I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present the proposals of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Senators! We see many positive elements in this bill. It's not like we don't see the need for change. Certainly with the help of this instrument a lot of good has happened in Poland. There is hardly a larger and medium-sized place in Poland where PARP would not be known. My city owes much to this cooperation, for example in terms of creating and completing economic zones and attracting foreign investors, as well as on many other issues. Several agencies worked together in this PARP. However, this cooperation was, in my opinion, very friendly because everything that was being done was, however, subject to at least a certain assessment, opinion, mandatory opinion by the supervisory board. And she was bringing together the most important partners of the agency, local government corporations and corporations bringing together employers. And, as we believe, regardless of the fact that these competences were soft, they were related to an opinion, although in financial terms it was even more of a competence. It's them... That's why the agency was gaining. I just can't understand, we, the minority senators, can't understand what the agency is going to gain from the liquidation of the supervisory board. But I think it's losing this factor of continuous, legally ordered consultation in the form of mandatory opinions. It's losing. Of course, you can always get these opinions, but it's not the same as having to consult them. That's why I think this move is reckless, unnecessary. However, it points to something that we observe in the case of very many other laws, which concerns us, a tendency to centralize, to decide everything, to determine everything by the Minister. The Civic Platform wants a different system. This doesn't just apply to this bill. He wants to participate, he wants to trust, he wants to cooperate. The Supervisory Board of the Agency was an expression of this. It's just like the Supervisory Board at PFRON. She may not decide many things either, but the important thing is that there are employers of people with disabilities and organizations that serve them. The Agency operates on the basis of public funds, i.e. those produced by employees and employers. And she was called to serve them. Representations within the agency itself were, in my opinion, its wealth, not an obstacle, not an obstacle, which is now being removed by breaking something that in democracy, often referred to as deliberative, is something unwritten and not necessarily, which can actually be settled and cleaned immediately. That's what you do. We consider this to be a valuable value leading us to a country that, indeed, can count on people, but does not have to. We would like him to want him to, and he would be obliged to do so. The Supervisory Board has served this well so far. If you, during the meeting, when we asked for reasons, said that the Supervisory Board had made such mistakes and such errors, stopped such and such actions, it interferes with this and this, then maybe we would appeal to your proposal. There were no arguments, even though we asked the reasons for such a proposal, and that is why we oppose it. We believe it's Art. 8 and related articles should disappear from the bill, so that we do not lose in it all that is good, what is worth may not really be so much economical, requiring a little trouble, time, patience, but nevertheless value. I appeal to you. It seems to me, Minister, the Senators, that this bill on leaving the Supervisory Board can only gain. He's not gonna lose anything. I find not one thing in which the Supervisory Board could interfere with the implementation of the plans set out in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u279	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Does anyone want to ask that question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Marek Nieżak with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Minister as a representative of the government related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you that none of the... [[Senator Probie.]] There you go. Senator Krystian Probier. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal, I have just such a slight remark for Senator Augustine's speech. Well, I am very pleased that he said that the bill is positive. However, I have great doubts about the senator's statement that the Civic Platform has a different approach to the issue. I would not refer to the achievements and actions of the Civic Platform in relation to the size of the debt that has been made and the political change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u281	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you. We proceed to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law on mating, colours and hymn of the Republic of Poland and on public seals. Let me remind you that the bill was filed by a group of senators. It is included in print No 464 and the report of the committee In print No 464 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and... [[There's no Senator Zientarski.]] [[Time out, Miss Marshal.]] Good. We're waiting for the Senator rapporteur. Four minutes off. [[Call him.]] The senator is on his way. He'll be here in a minute. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 21 to 21 minutes 27]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law on mating, colours and hymn of the Republic of Poland and on public seals. I would remind you that the bill was filed by a group of senators. It is included in print No 464 and the report of the committee In print No 464 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u282	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. In place of Senator Piotr Ziientarski, chairman of the local government committee, I would like to present a report. This report concerns the draft law on amending the law on emblems, colours and hymns of the Republic of Poland and on public seals; Senate print No 464. It is an initiative of a group of senators who authorized them to represent Senator Jan Rulewski. We, as committees, gathered twice. The first time we met, of course, we discussed the proposal of changes which are about to take place in the Act about emblems, colours and hymns of the Republic of Poland. And in the first version of this law there was a proposal to make changes such as: replacing the word "white" written in a small letter with a capital letter, etc., etc. However, the whole discussion focused on the revision of the article. Point 4 of Annex 1 to the Act states that the words "coron, bow and claws of gold' should be added to the note. There has been a whole discussion on how to define the image, how to describe our emblem, and this discussion has led to a proposal to suspend the committee meeting and to gather once again, once we have information from the Ministry on how to describe, as proposed by the initiators, this emblem, eagle, in particular, the words "coron, bow and claws of gold." Because in Annex 1 to that Act If you look in there, you'll see. It's just the image of an eagle, the image of a emblem, and it doesn't have this descriptive part. At the next sitting, the second one, the initiators, and I mean Senator Jan Rulewski, withdrew from this point concerning the description of the emblem and focused on the part which seems to have led to this presentation. Namely, they focused on changing the article. 15a, which is to be said to be: 2 May The Day of Symbols of the Republic of Poland: White Eagle, Flags of the Republic of Poland and Dąbrowski Mazurka. Here the initiators emphasized that we already have the 2nd of May, i.e. Day of Polonia and Day of Flags. And it wasn't just Flag Day, but it was Eagle White Day, flag day, and Dąbrowski's Mazurka. And in this report, we are already focusing mainly on this topic. We propose that in the article. There's an editorial change here. The word "white" is a small letter to replace it with the word "white" with a small letter. Art. 6a, of course, is averted. And of course, like I said, after the art. 15 The following Article is inserted: 15a The Day of the Symbols of the Republic of Poland: White Eagle, Flags of the Republic of Poland and Dąbrowski Mazurka is hereby established on 2 May. And that's the main proposition. We had a long discussion, as I said, at the committee meeting. As the Senate's legislative initiatives must always have an opinion, we even had to vote twice. Because at the first vote, it turned out that the bill would be deprived of any opinion. But with the second vote, it turned out that the majority of the committee was in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u283	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Jan Rulewski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u284	This time to the representative of the applicants. [[Oh, there's the senator.]] [[Please.]] Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, High Izbo, what exactly is the point of this bill as it stands? It is only the extension of the Flag Day, which already appeared as if in the public opinion, to other symbols. It's a little artificial. Is it simply reasonable to pass this law? Especially since, as we know, the government has the intention of presenting a comprehensive bill on national symbols in general.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo... [[Please.]] ...to this question I answer: definitely yes. The purpose of this law is to extend the celebrations which take place on 2 May and concern only the flags of the Republic of Poland, to other symbols, defined constitutionally, but not only, i.e. the White Eagle and the Dąbrowski Eagle. Except I'd like to... Did I understand you correctly, or did you say in the second part that it seemed insignificant, or did I overheard? [[Otherwise: this change is small compared to the government proposing a comprehensive amendment of the law, healing many provisions, general...]] Oh, yeah, that's the third part, that's how I understood. That's the third one. But in the other one, I noticed... [[This change is actually a bit artificial, because what has already occurred in the public opinion, after how many? After 10 years, it's changed... well, that way we don't prove the state's sustainability.]] Good. Indeed, there are three statements in your question. As for the other, if you'll excuse me, I have to refer. These aren't... national symbols aren't artificial or decorative. They're not only constitutionally defined, but they're also alive, sir, over a thousand 50 years, 1,000 years. At least the White Eagle in the consciousness of Poles. And I'd ask you not to use those terms. And as for whether it should not be a question or a part of the question This was combined with the comprehensive change that the government is preparing, and I answer: this is indeed the case, because this initiative was submitted almost evenly a year ago and pending a comprehensive solution presented by the government, this draft law was not properly followed. Only now did it turn out that no initiative had been introduced to the Sejm so far. That's first of all. Secondly, and here I answer the third part of the question, this initiative both in my opinion and in the opinion of the other people who adopted it. But I also did not notice the government protest, at least in the opinion of the government is not a prerequisite for a comprehensive government initiative. She may be included, but she doesn't have to be. For today I have not noticed any opinion in which the possibility of celebrating Flag Day was excluded on 2 May, and that the name of this festival would not be added to the other symbols.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u286	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. Thank you. [[I'm signing up.]] To be heard in the discussion, I understand. Yes? [[Yes.]] Good. Thank you very much. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister. We have Minister Paweł Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. I give my vote to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! As far as the meaning of the draft law, on which the committee was proceeding and which was presented, is concerned... Regardless of the results of this proposed law, we, as a general government, have created a draft comprehensive law. It took us the most time to prepare graphical attachments, i.e. determining the temperature of colors and various parameters that would be appropriate for each Polish flag, each emblem to look the same in every place, and for Dąbrowski's Mazurka to be played as always and everywhere. Because you probably don't know... Or maybe you know that the only legally valid version of "Mazurka" is the version of "Mazurka" for the piano. There isn't, for example. official scores for different types of orchestra. But we've prepared it, it's ready. The National Institute of Fryderyk Chopin has prepared partitions, we have already prepared graphical attachments, the draft law is already ready, it is included in the government's programming work. And I think in two weeks this project will go into government mode, which means within a month and a half it will go to the Sejm. I hope that in the Seym it will pass without much controversy, because it is just a bill of order. New, yet tidying, not making significant changes in symbols. Why am I talking about this? Because, indeed, as the senator rightly pointed out, the government did not present any particular opinion on this matter, either positive or negative. We took such an assumption that if the Senate and the Sejm... If Parliament adopts the legislative amendments that are proposed here, we will implement these amendments in this draft law that we will present. We will not propose anything other than what will be adopted here, because we will recognise that this is the voice of Parliament, and we will take into account that we will not then return to the discussion we are having today. However, I'm looking at this case a little bit in terms of communication. It is right here that the senator pointed out that the matter of the National Flag Day has already been settled. This symbol is no more important than the emblem, nor is it more important than the "Mazurek" and all these symbols complement each other and they are all equally important. It's a matter of perpetuating a certain tradition. Flag Day... The flag is the carrier of the greatest emotions. People talk about the flag, identify themselves under the flag, they have a flag on the demonstrations. I have the impression that in such a social sense she is the most widespread symbol, so this day was dedicated to the flag. Of course, there is nothing to prevent this day from being dedicated to all national symbols, but, as I said at the outset, it became clear that this is Flag Day. It's called a short name. Flag Day. This is important in terms of communication. We say we're celebrating Flag Day today. Yes? And the new name... Today we celebrate the day of national symbols, i.e. flags, emblems and Masurka Dąbrowskie. Well, the kid at school wants to know it's just Flag Day. But somehow we will not insist particularly if the Senate and Parliament generally feel that this is the best, the most effective, that this is an important enough way to celebrate all three national symbols. Of course, we are not going to raise any objections to this issue, nor are we going to put forward in this project that we are going to present, in some way, back to this discussion. The one thing I miss about this whole thing is... It is about the lack of such public consultations, checking whether Poles would like such a change. This initiative is a senator initiative. Well, the Senate legislative process doesn't provide for extensive consultations. We have consultations in the government legislative process. Our project that's going to be... Various associations will be invited, different institutions will be invited to assess this issue, to comment on whether they accept the proposals we will make there. I would not want any changes to the act concerning national symbols to arouse any controversy, because national symbols are ultimately the thing that undoubtedly all Poles connect and under these symbols all Poles gather in difficult moments regardless of what political option they represent. We all go out on the street with white and red flags. Yeah, with white and red flags, that's why this vexium is especially dedicated to May 2nd. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u288	Thank you very much. [[I'd like to ask you a question.]] Senator Gogacz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u289	I would like to ask the Minister about the initial project of the initiators. I mean the first annex that the initiators resigned from so that further work could be done more easily. Point 4 in Article. 1, which refers to the fact that in Annex 1 the words "coron, bow and claws " of gold" are added to the remark, has given rise to a very large discussion at the committee's meeting regarding the definition of certain shapes, graphics, etc. Do you think that the government should, in its submission, perhaps do so? This annex is first extended by the descriptive part and not just by the graphic part?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u290	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u291	The bill, which we intend to submit, is very detailed and precise in terms of the appearance of national symbols, which de facto describes what is presently called it, so that there is no doubt. So there's no doubt about what the emblem looks like, what other state signs look like, there's always attachments attached to the bill, because nothing speaks better to a man than... One painting will replace a thousand words, as the saying says. We have taken this effort and I think we have managed to meet these expectations. In the project we're going to submit, it's probably going to the Sejm in about two months if that's the will of the government. This is widely described. Those problems that occurred during the work, I think they'll be addressed...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u292	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. And I'll ask Senator Jan Rulewski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, one can ask a more general question than that which Senator Czerwiński, known for such hurpatriotic projects, asked for my incomprehensible reasons. Do you even need a traditional Flag Day, as you say? If you've been measuring tradition for 14 years, and not, like you said, for 10 days, then I see you're part-time. Sorry about that, but the White Eagle tradition goes back almost a thousand years, flags. More than 100 years old, an anthem More than 200 years, but I understand that you are closer to this tradition born by the groups of the Polish People's Republic. For obvious reasons, I won't be explaining this in this room, but I'll explain it to you later. [[Don't worry, don't worry.]] It's not nervous. And you're laughing. You even say the White Eagle is an artificial concept. [[I know what I'm saying, and you speak for yourself.]] [[Quiet, please. Gentlemen, I want you to talk to each other outside of session.]] So this tradition is artificial. Well, if it takes 14 years, it's a great tradition... It was praised by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic, especially since the authorities of the Polish People's Republic were fleeing the Eagle for 2 reasons. Well, first of all, he But he once wore a crown. Secondly, because the flag is a derivative, a distant derivative of the White Eagle, and the communists, as recently here We said everything that was before the Polish People's Republic... In fact, there was nothing at the time, there was no White Eagle in it. And the flag they really recognized. Well, they must have recognized some symbolism. But it is not a dispute about tradition or even constitutional provisions that should be honoured in the High House. And if someone forgets about it, and forgets it very much, and calls it artificial, it offends me very much. Well, unfortunately, your marshal's head and the whole House aren't hanging a white and red flag, it's the White Eagle. I'm gonna add so much gossip that there's a flag hanging in the Sejm. In fact, they're white and red. And the wrong hanged White Eagle. But let's leave it. I think it should be more important in this House to believe that this reality is not artificial. I don't know if all the senators... this non-artificial reality was shown in the competition that was organized by the Senate Marshal and in which he participated. Unselfishly and with a high volume of material resources and time, 12 thousand primary school students. And just a little while ago, I think that maybe not everyone in this room is concerned with the fact that we applauded the opening of the second exhibition by Marshal Karczewski, devoted to the snycer art of the flag, not the flag, but the White Eagle. Well, even more intimately involved in these non-artificial national symbols should remember that there are schools in Poland that are called the White Eagle and are proud of it. I haven't met. Maybe it's my lack of knowledge. The fact that a school is called white and red, which the Constitution refers to, or the white and red flag of the Republic of Poland. I'm thinking about a tradition that maybe Senator Gogacz, I don't even know how... To this day there are still balls of the White Eagle, there are races of the White Eagle, and above all, the White Eagle accompanies us everywhere. This is the most widespread sign in Poland Maybe it's a symbol, because calling it a sign would be unfair, too. And also in the world. In Poland, because it is present in the pocket of each of us. We are proud that our gold, with the White Eagle, is his strength for the first time after the war. We see the White Eagle on the streets and of course we see the White Eagle during numerous sports competitions at home and abroad. Above all, the practice is that on Flag Day I don't know if you're going, I'm going It is not only the white and red flag, but it is accompanied by the hymn, So this is a deep experience of the national symbol, 3 national symbols. And you could actually assume that if it's so deep in our consciousness, in our hearts, it's shown, then why set the day. Well, now that someone's fixed a day like this and, as I see it, there's a protector on that day, it's bound to be logical not to ignore, not to discriminate against other symbols. Well, since this day was passed and the celebrations were passed, it was probably followed by other reasons and they said that there was a need for these symbols to be reminded, worshiped, raised at this moment of the establishment of the Third Republic. He's a friend of mine. As I hear it, I think he's gonna be judged against these artificial symbols right now, too. He just hung this... I don't know if that's exactly the image, but when you can't. Senator Romaszewski, just giving... [[In the Seym. He couldn't have done that.]] ...express your feelings, gentlemen of the Senators... And he was a very intelligent man, I'd say he was more intelligent than emotional. He felt that at this point we had to give way to feelings, and then, when there was no constitution, there was no law yet, he hung... [[In the Seym.]] ...it's... [[In the Seym.]] No, Romaszewski was a senator. [[He hung it in the Seym because he couldn't hang it here.]] Oh, yeah, in the Seym. Well, it was in the Seym at the time, because there wasn't a room yet. I'm sorry. Well, I wasn't here at the time, but I'm sure I'd applaud him, or at least I wouldn't say he's taking some incomprehensible steps. Why do I feel what I just... It's a good thing Senator Czerwiński will argue in a rather original way. That is why it is so that the figure or figure of the eagle white, and first the eagle was not accepted accidentally. If there's a discussion here of the kind that Flag Day is what it should be, and the rest of it's already additions, violating some kind of tradition... After all, the eagle symbolizes what is, which was especially the ambition of Poles and the Third Republic. It's power, it's sublime, it's an imperial or royal bird that... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] Yeah, but still... Oh, yeah. [[Five minutes.]] And I think, for these reasons, Mrs. Marshal, it's worth joining this initiative. Since we have just said here, that people do not remember the anniversary of Poland's baptism, and we need to adopt a law that speaks even of a national holiday, I, on behalf of the creators, our friends and colleagues from the Platform, ask nothing more than that there be at least a day when once a year Poles will think about where their family and why they have as many as 3 national symbols. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u294	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to correct and at the same time protest against the lies that fell from this stand in the statements of your representative, Senator Rulewski. I didn't say This can be checked in the protocol Our symbols, the most important for the country, i.e. timbre, emblem and hymn, are artificial, whatever, etc. You just made it up, and then you made up a five-minute exegesis of a statement that you imagined after your fast. That's one thing. Just reach for the protocol. And now to the substance, which is to the law itself. Case one. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland does not use the terms "symbols', "state symbols' or "symbols' of the Republic of Poland. Please note that Art. 28 speaks of the emblem of the Republic of Poland, it is in paragraph. In the first paragraph, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 of colours, in paragraph 2. 3 o hymn, in the mouth. 4 requires legal protection, and in paragraph 4. 5 refers to a law detailing these concepts. And that is the law. This law is the law on emblems, colours and hymns of the Republic of Poland and public seals. Also in the title we do not use the term "symbols." The term "symbols" appears in Article. 1. I will quote it because it is important because of how we will then interpret this change: the white eagle, white and red colors and the Dąbrowski Mazurek are symbols of the Republic of Poland. Well, the symbol of the Republic of Poland is not a flag, ladies and gentlemen, these are colours. You mustn't bring such a conceptual supposition, such chaos into one of the basic laws. The symbols are white eagle, white and red colors and Dąbrowski Mazurek, while the colours are placed on the flag, but not on the flag, but on the flag of the state. That's the whole idea. Thus, the law cannot be amended to replace colours and flags, to use the term "symbols" where it is unlawful, and not to use the full name "state flag" because it simply introduces chaos into the law, into one of the basic laws. I'll quote the change. In fact, the law contains 1 substantive article, in which there are 2 amendments. The first change is to write the word "white" with a capital letter. Except everywhere else in the bill there is a white letter. Exactly, but I'm not the one asking why it's got to be in the big letter. Well, there is a small letter white in the law, so mixing it suggests that there are about 2 different designations named after the same name. That's not what you do in the law, especially in a law so basic that refers to symbols. This is the mocking of the symbols, the introduction of chaos into the bill. I'll talk about it at the end. And now, one at a time, I'm going to make some mistakes. The second substantive change consists of 2 parts: the flag celebration is automatically repealed and a new holiday is introduced. What's the name of this holiday? Day of Symbols of the Republic of Poland: White Eagle, Flags of the Republic of Poland, Mazurka Dąbrowskiego. Again, the symbol is not the flag. According to the law, the symbol is timbre. It's fairly simple, logical. As for the fact that the flag should be... If any, it should be the flag of the Republic of Poland. That's missing, too. Here's one article and five mistakes. Well, I overreacted, four mistakes. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how you do it. It's just messing with basic values. Well, just as the state should be stable and calculating, strong, but in the face of the strong and forgiving towards the weak, the same law, which concerns the symbols of the state, should be stable and not changed according to the whim. Because I didn't hear why this holiday was supposed to be a big holiday. It makes no sense to quote or convince the state and the gathered senators of the White Eagle's superiority over the white and red colors, as well as to convince them of the superiority of Christmas over Easter holidays. These are different symbols, from different spheres, but from the same country. They should be stable. You can't play by these laws depending on your whims, 'cause we have this idea because it's in our head... Or comprehensive laws that change e.g. due to the state of the art... Because what the Minister said here is understandable: a new law needs to be introduced, because we have new computer graphics, new symbols, color codes and that needs to be specified in the bill. Once again, the flag law, at 2 May as a flag feast, has its short, short, but tradition. This festival has spread in the daily reception, in our culture, is widely celebrated, there are sacred flags celebrated in the field, e.g. At my place, in the village of Moszczanka, in my district, it is a voivodship holiday. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you know this, but the Feast of the Flag is the Platform introduced when I was an MEP. Why are you ruining this? I'm sorry, you might not want to ruin it, but that's how it works. Again: state symbols should be virtually inviolable. [[Nobody's trespassing.]] Let's not try to rattle around, force certain holidays... Although it is likely that this feast will be passed. But at the very reception... The Feast of the Flags is a short name, and the Feast is a short name. And here we quote with mistakes, as I said, I hope I've explained what these mistakes are all about... It's just, in my opinion, unauthorized and actually a little frivolous. Perhaps it is different, perhaps your intentions are different, not just a desire to exist, not just a desire to adopt something. Maybe those intentions are different. I hope so. But, really, not with these laws. These are some of the basic laws. And most of all, well, I don't know what to call it, I don't think it's acceptable, as I told the senator, something like that: making up a sentence and an exegesis of that sentence for five minutes to the record, and then apologizing eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u296	Thank you. Senator Rulewski is still here, isn't he? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not going to apologize because the senator changed his mind in a few days. Previously, you asked the committee to reject the bill not so much because of the sound, even if it was wrong, let's accept it. I'll talk about it in a minute. How much simply because of waiting for a comprehensive bill. And just now the Minister said that it has no connection to itself, he's not yet deciding whether he's gonna be, or isn't he gonna be... So it doesn't have any... Let's get your speech straightened out. First you, sir. It's like a polite way of saying it. He's quoting the constitution. And there really are no symbols... I don't have time to explain to you how many mistakes there are. At least two. They're colors. So you don't think it should be Flag Day, the traditional one, wonderfully celebrated in your town, just a day of colors. What are colors? Well, the colors are white and red in different forms. I'm not talking about public life, I'm talking about ceremonial life. In two different countries there are the same colors. Then you actually went to the bill analysis. But the bill says Flag Day. The concept of flag as such does not exist... Excuse me, sir, you said "saint." Christmas doesn't occur at all, but I'll correct you, it's Flag Day. The flag does not exist anywhere, but the flag concept has been introduced for the purpose of the celebration. Because it's hard to recall art. 1, where there are colors... Well, how to celebrate the day... How would a day of white and red be? That's why the concept of flag was introduced. And it's the only thing that's happened. Just respecting tradition, without mixing, I wrote that it would also be a day. flags of the Republic of Poland. I didn't write the State because that's the sound... Because the name of that day is a common term. Just like May 1, it's not an international work holiday, it's a work holiday. Or it's even said "May 1st." The same is true of May 3rd. These are common names. Now the word "white." Well, I'm not good either, Mr. Senator, from Polish, but before I wrote that word, I checked it ten times. And I urge you to check, too. Already 200 years ago, Poles, who know the Polish language, decided that in the term "Biały Eagle," not a white eagle, only "White Eagle," write one and the other word in capital letters, to emphasize the symbol or meaning, if you don't like the word "Symbol." And that's why I needed this little amendment that I'm not gonna fight about. Yeah, but you can't write in the same bill once in capital letters, in the constitution in capital letters, and in other places. With a small letter. Wishful thinking. I said... Of course, you can call it even worse. Yes, I have the desire and the creators of this bill want to mention on that day where the White Eagle came from, as it states about the thousand-year power of the Polish state, its meaning, how many people died for it, how many people sacrificed for it, how many today its thoughts are headed towards it. I don't know, I'm already afraid to use the word "symbol," because I'm still going to be punished. It's just the emblems. Which is not a emblem, because we worship the crest. And that's a mistake. in the Constitution. And last but not least, Mr. Senator, a little logic in your thinking. Because you're famous for your good logic. Well, you can't ask me to... [[It's been five minutes, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much.]] ...15 senators, because so many signed the initiative, wanted to change the constitution. [[Thank you very much, Senator.]] You know we don't have that kind of opportunity. The Constitution doesn't change 15 senators or even the entire Senate. [[Mr. Senator, thank you very much.]] And that is why, Mr. Senator, the initiative concerns a law, not a constitution. [[Thank you very much, Senator.]] You would once want us to change the constitution, and once the bill. And for today we can say The Minister will confirm That there is a contradiction between laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwiński Does he still want to speak? [[Yes.]] And Senator Gogacz, too? [[Yes. But I'm in corrigendum mode.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u299	Senator Jan Rulewski, as a representative of the applicants, stated in this part of his statement that a motion to reject the law was made at the committee meeting. And that this request was filed by Senator Czerwinski. You at first... [[So that he justified...]] But you said the motion for rejection... [[No.]] What I'm trying to say is that's the conclusion we didn't make. It didn't fall. That's one of the reasons we had a pat on the committee for a while. Because this bill was deprived of any opinion. That's why we had to vote again. And that's because... But we voted on the vote, not the motion for rejection. He was put to the vote for the bill. And there was no motion to reject the bill. So that's all the more reason not to... No one's made that request. Senator Czerwinski, of course. He didn't make that request either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u300	Thank you very much. Would Senator Czerwiński like to speak? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, literally in one sentence... As for the correction, of course I agree, there was a completely different conclusion, namely that we should wait... [[Yeah, that's right.]] ...to present a complete, comprehensive bill by the government. And I still think that's the way it's supposed to be. Yeah, but that's another thing. Mr. Senator Rulewski, you're famous for commenting on words someone else hasn't said. And I'll comment on the words you said. Well, I agree entirely with what you said about the size of our national symbols.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u302	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... [[I'm still...]] Mr. Senator, but you... [[Senator Gogach, because...]] You've run out of time. [[That's a corrigendum.]] Okay, I'm gonna need a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u303	Senator Gogacz said there was no motion for rejection, but there was a motion not to accept the bill, to wait for a comprehensive government bill. It wasn't a motion to interrupt the bill. And the vote of the senator, including you and the others, including Senator Czerwinski, was against this bill. Well, since it was voted against, since it wasn't a hold-up, another version can only talk about rejection.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u304	Thank you very much. [[I only have one sentence...]] [[In what mode?]] Gentlemen, please, let us put an end to this discussion. I'm closing the discussion, and now... [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u305	I'm on my way. Just one sentence. Because there was a suggestion that here... There may be a suggestion that among the 15 senators... that I also signed the motion. So I would like to say that I did not sign this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u306	Okay, thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. Are there communications? Please read it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u307	Message one. Meeting of the Infrastructure Commission on the review of the Law amending the Public Road Act, i.e. Senate printing No 1125, and consideration of amendments tabled to the Act on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities, Senate printing No 1097, will take place tomorrow, i.e. March 21st, 8.00 p.m. in room 176. Message two. The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure on the consideration of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act will take place tomorrow, i.e. March 21st, Thursday, 8:45 p.m. in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-20-senat-75-1.u308	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 12]]
