ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Rafał Weber, Mrs Marta Kubiak, Mr Sylvester Tulayev and Mr Piotr Olszówka to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Rafał Weber and Ms Marta Kubiak. I'm gonna read the ads now. I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - Infrastructure - hour 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 10.30, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12, - Infrastructure - hour 12.30 or immediately after the end of the meeting convened at 12.30 p.m. 10, - Health-- hour. 12.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 14, - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technology together with the Committee on Culture and Media - hour 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 14, - Foreign Affairs - hour 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 2.30 p.m., - Education, Science and Youth - hour 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 3.30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Volleyball Team - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 12, - Joint meeting of the Parliamentary Renewable Energy and Parliamentary Energy Team. Energy Winter Package - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for the implementation of the Treaty provisions between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany with good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation, signed at Bonn on 17 June 1991 - 5 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Marine Wind Energy - hour 6:30. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question may not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer may not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. An additional question may not last more than 1 minute. The supplementary response may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Members Joanna Borowiak, Lidia Burzyńska, Anna Milczanowska, Ewa Szymańska, Krystyna Wróblewska, Mariusz Trepka, Piotr Kaleta, Waldemar Andzel and Marek Polak, Law and Justice, on the effects of controls in the so-called. escape rooms and activities undertaken by the Ministry of Interior and Administration and the State Fire Department. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The first question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u2	Dear Marshal! Minister! In the first days of January this year. There was a tragic fire in Koszalin. The escape room where five girls died. This fire, in the light of the findings made, was the result of gross errors of the owner of the facility resulting from the failure to apply the fire safety rules. The immediate response of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the State Fire Service deserves to be stressed and appreciated. Good. We must not let such a tragedy happen again. According to available data in Poland, there are about 1 thousand. such facilities, offering so-called. puzzle rooms. In order to eliminate possible negligence and danger, immediate inspections of these facilities by the State Fire Department have been undertaken to meet the safety requirements of their owners. During these checks carried out throughout the country, in many cases the service detected large irregularities. In view of the situation, we kindly ask the Minister to answer the questions: How many escape rooms have been checked, how these checks have been carried out and what are the results?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u3	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What measures have been taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the State Fire Department to prevent further such dramatic events and what actions are planned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u5	Thank you very much. The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Jarosław Zieliński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u6	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Members, We all remember the fresh and painful memory of 4 January 2019 when the so-called fire was tragic. escape room in Koszalin. It is this event that you are calling to your questions. At the scene of the fire, the State Fire Department arrived very quickly, whose officers were determined to carry out rescue operations. Unfortunately, five young, 15 - year - old girls died as a result of this event. On the same day, Minister Joachim Brudziński instructed the Chief of State Fire Department to carry out an inspection at escape rooms all over Poland. Immediately after the fire, the officers of the State Fire Department - and, where necessary, with the assistance of the police - took control action. During the check-in of the services after the tragedy in Koszalin, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced the preparation of a detailed report summarizing the checks carried out in the escape rooms. Of course, this is about puzzle rooms, although this name escape room has already spread. It's kind of a Polish-English name, and I think we're going to use it now, because there's nothing to look for better words. Ladies and gentlemen! As I mentioned, after the tragedy in Koszalin, the State Fire Department carried out checks on escape room objects throughout Poland. From Saturday, January 5th to Monday 14th January, or actually - I have to correct the first data here - until Tuesday 15th January firefighters checked 510 such premises throughout Poland. During the inspection, 1887 fire protection deficiencies were found, including 738 with regard to evacuation conditions. The total number of escape rooms in which irregularities were found was 437 per 510 premises checked. 437 or 436, that's still to be verified, but this is a row of this magnitude. As far as irregularities are concerned, this is still a matter that needs to be checked, because checks are ongoing, and that is still happening. This accounts for almost 86% all objects checked so far. As regards 70 premises, a decision to ban their operation was issued and in 48 cases fines were imposed by a criminal mandate. Irregularities concerned primarily the closure of evacuation doors in such a way as to prevent their immediate opening in the event of fire or other danger, the incorrect width of escape routes and the absence of their marking. In the premises were also found, among others. the absence of fire extinguishers and fire-fighting devices and the use of make-up installations e.g. electric or heating. Parts of the premises could not be checked either because of their seasonal operation or because of other circumstances. There is also a question here whether some of them have not been closed due to what has happened and in connection with the public discussion in the media on this subject, but this, of course, still needs to be thoroughly checked. Here, for the purposes of today's information, I just want to say that some of these premises were closed. I would like to assure you, Members and the public, that such control activities will continue, and will be carried out now, in connection with the regulation - also permanently, as I will talk about in a moment. Thus, they will be of a non-action but continuous nature. High Izbo! Already after the first inspections carried out by the State Fire Department, many irregularities have been identified, and therefore, as announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister Joachim Brudziński, the Ministry of State Fire Department has developed an amendment of the regulation prepared by the State Fire Department on the fire protection of buildings and other buildings. The Regulation amending the Regulation on the fire protection of buildings, other buildings and land was signed by the Minister of Interior and Administration on 11 January 2019 and published in the Official Journal of 14 January 2019. According to the amendment, the owner, manager, user or any other person who actually owns such an object or part of it - that is, the essence of this arrangement...excuse me, the regulation - should carry out a practical check of the organisation of evacuation of people in place of safety, outside the building or to the neighboring fire zone before starting operations in this area and at least once every 2 years thereafter, as well as the verification of compliance with fire protection requirements. Such verification shall be carried out with the participation of fire safety assessors, persons with a professional title of fire engineer or persons with a higher degree in safety engineering at the Fire Safety Engineering School: Fire Safety Engineering. In addition, the Regulation provides that the checks and their results must be kept informed by the competent local district or city commandant of the State Fire Department. The owner, manager or user of the facility shall be required to carry out such verification within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Regulation of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such action will strengthen the supervision of the compliance with fire regulations in buildings and improve their fire safety status.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u7	Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Last sentence, Marshal, if you don't mind. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, also obliged the Minister of Investment and Development and the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology to analyse safety legislation in facilities where children and young people are present and the requirements imposed on entrepreneurs active in this field. Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I have presented the work of the Minister for the Interior in this area that you are asking for. I'm sure you'll be able to complete that by answering the second question. Please, second question, Mrs Lidia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u8	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Chief! High Izbo! In reply, the Minister gave us a very clear indication of the actions taken by the Ministry by the State Fire Department. However, I will appeal to - and here every one of us comes to mind one thing - security, the safety of users, I will use the Polish name, rooms of puzzles. Minister, more than 440 rooms checked show irregularities. My question is: What consequences have been drawn from the actions carried out so that in the future no one can think to organize - I will use this word - business at the expense of security? I'd like you to rewrite that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u9	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u10	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! As we have heard, checks carried out in many cases have resulted in the prohibition of further activities of this type of facility. Please tell me, are these shortcomings only due to the negligence of the managers of these facilities or to the imprecise rules governing the conduct of such activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u11	Thank you very much, sir. The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The consequences that you are asking once again have already been mentioned by me. First of all, it is about closing, shutting down 70 objects that cannot function in this state. That's one thing. Secondly, it concerns penalties in the form of a criminal mandate, fines imposed in 48 cases on owners or managers, users of these premises. It is also important, of course, that regulations which, once they enter into force, clearly regulate the requirements of those who organise such activities. Why don't I quote that recipe that's right here... I'm sorry, maybe not, 'cause I don't have much time. So I'm going to call in numbers, data about voivodships, because it might be of interest to the public. I will only point out those voivodships where there are most such rooms, such an escape room, and where there are the least of them, there is an average number of them in the rest. More than 50 such facilities were located in Pomorskie voivodships - there are more than 100 of them - Dolnośląskie, Mazowieckie, Silesian and Wielkopolska - there are more than 50 of them. The least such identified locations of puzzles - in a moment I will explain what this means, because I think the word of comment is needed here - operates in Lubuskie, Opolskie, 10 exactly, this is the border I accepted for calculation, Podlaskie, Świętokrzyskie, Warmia-Mazurskie. I'm talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the objects identified, because they're registered under different names. This control will continue to continue and in those that will function and in those that can still be identified. This may still happen, because so far there has not been an obligation imposed by the regulation, which will now be the owners, users, managers of these facilities, these premises, the purpose is to inform the state services, the State Fire Department. Now the test protocols will have to be passed on to the city commanders or district state fire department, as I said, and this will mean first of all knowing where these premises function. There has been a problem with this so far, so after this tragic event - only - it was necessary to take action on the inventory of places where this type of activity is carried out. Now there will be knowledge of these activities and, of course, there will be obligations under the regulation, i.e. regarding the verification of escape routes, fire regulations, whether they are fulfilled, there will, of course, be permanent checks carried out, especially by the State Fire Department. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Bogdan Rzońc, Jan Warzecha and Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice, on the state of preparation for the reconstruction of the national road No 73 on the section Pilzno - Jasło. The question was addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. Mr Bogdan Rzońc is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u14	Dear Marshal! Minister! I am asking a question which has quite a long history, because 3 years ago during the budget debate I made a report at night - it was late at night - just such a proposal to deal with the national road No 73 on the section Pilsno - Jasło and the Sejm supported this proposal. It's been three years since that decision. Thank you very much to all the CEOs of the Road Directorates who have taken care of the problem, because this is the way that, please, leads towards Slovakia - towards Jasl, but also towards Slovakia - but also the way that all those who are traveling in our beautiful Bieszczady Podkarpackie. That's why I have a question: Minister, what does it look like today, after 3 years, the state of preparation for this road? I am referring, of course, to documentation issues and also, if that is possible today and if not, I ask for a written reply, for an answer on what funding will be possible, because we are all aware that all road investments have been very expensive. Isn't there an obstacle in this matter? At this stage, please answer where we are after 3 years. I know it's not the minister's fault or the general management's fault, but I just want to tell the public how long the investment processes are going on, and this is all about environmental decisions as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u15	Thank you very much. The questions are answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Marek Chodkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to stress that the Government of Law and Justice attaches great importance to this and makes every effort to compensate for the long-term negligence of providing adequate infrastructure in Eastern Poland, as evidenced by the decision to build the Via Carpatia road. The importance of this decision cannot be overestimated, as it will lead to the development of the economy in this region. However, this is not the only investment in this region that we have to implement. We see the enormous needs of the region of Podkarpacie in terms of the road network. National road 73 between Pilsen and Jasl is a section connecting the very important road 94 and the A4 motorway with the national road 28 connecting the East to the West in Podkarpacie. The investment includes the extension of existing sections of the road with a total length of 14 km to the road width of 7 m, the strengthening of its construction to 11.5 t and the construction of the ring road Pilzna, Brzostka, Kołaczyc and Jasła with a length of approx. 21 km. In total, the entire investment will cover 34 km, including sidewalks, bike paths and modern left turns, so that it will be a fully modern road. For this investment we provided funding for preparatory work already in 2016 and on the basis of the contract concluded with the contractor of documentation, it is practically already at the end, so-called. a corridor study and a technical and environmental study, so-called STES. These materials have been prepared. It should be mentioned that the investment is divided into three sections. The first episode will be the episode with the Pilsen ring road, the second episode with the Pilstka and Kołaczyc ring road, and the third episode with the Jasła ring road. On 11 September 2018, a meeting of the Committee on the Evaluation of Investment Enterprises was held, so-called. KOPI, on which the assumptions of this famous STEŚ were considered. As agreed by the KOPI, the route variant for sections 1 and 3 was recommended. However, there was a problem with section 2, where the contractor was obliged to perform an additional variant, because in this section we have a big challenge, namely the course of the Vistula River and a wide range of flood areas. In general, two options were considered during the work and analysis on this section. The first - after a new trail, one bypass of the Birch and Kołaczyc. The second - mainly on the old trail, would be built separately by two bypasses of the Brzostka and Kołaczyc. On the rest of the episodes, the road would be back to its old trail. Unfortunately, the Regional Water Management Board rejected these arrangements precisely because of the flood risk. On the other hand, the second option aroused huge social opposition, because some of them follow the current trail, as we know, strongly settled. For this reason, I believe that very important talks have been made with the Polish Waters concerning the implementation of the section in the first variant, because the Polish Waters had plans to build flood shafts. We have agreed with the Polish Waters and it is already a positive decision to combine these investments, i.e. to combine the construction of flood shafts with the road on these shafts. This is a very interesting solution and actually we already have the consent of Polish Waters, we are after positive decisions. As far as funding is concerned, it's likely... We're always trying to... We know about the cost, that is about PLN 486 million, while we also know that prices are rising. In general, this is likely to be based on the state budget, because it is rather difficult to find the main national network that we are building, as we know, with EU funds. So we think it'll be built out of budget money. However, the most important goal is to achieve environmental conditions, because this is the moment when we can think about implementing the investment. So right now we have a proposal for an environmental decision, an announcement, a development of a programming concept, and then a tender. We are planning a tender at the end of 2021 and implementation in the years 2024 and 2026. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u17	Thank you, Minister. And an additional question - Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u18	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question is related to the long-term nature of the proceedings, which aim to make a decision on the authorisation of road investments, i.e. the so-called. ZRID. This chronicity is particularly relevant to proceedings for the issue of environmental decisions. The whole country, also the Podkarpackie FOD, has been conducting these proceedings for quite a long time. Sometimes it is paradoxical to examine the environmental impact of national road renovation, which has been running there for several centuries in the same way. And my question: Shouldn't some legal arrangements be introduced, under the relevant laws or regulations, to make such investments [[♪ The bell ♪]] on road infrastructure had a priority in this procedure?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u19	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr. Mark Chodkiewicz to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the difficulties and the chronicity in issuing the decision of the ZRID, they are generally the cause of too low earnings in the voivodship offices, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, officials are slowing down mass and e.g. in the Warsaw capital office, at the moment there was one person who made such decisions. So that there is, above all, a field for showing off, here something must be changed. The same human resources situation and the problem of low wages are found in the so-called. WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, So there's a dog buried here. However, as for the procedure itself, one can of course think whether decisions on such important national roads should not be given priority, and this could be considered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u21	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Barbara Bartus and Robert Telus, Law and Justice, on the introduction by local authorities of high increases in monthly fees for their residents for the export of waste - the question to the Minister for the Environment. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u22	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! By the end of the year, he brought new resolutions of the municipalities' councils, which bring with them these very high increases in the fees for the export of waste. These increases are sometimes dozens of percent, sometimes even up to 100%. The municipalities, justifying these increases, say very easily: this is how the tender came out, the prices went up, we have to increase it. This is justified by the authorities, presenting these significant increases to the municipalities' councils, very high increases, significant for the residents, especially for the elderly - with very little income, these monthly fees are a big expenditure in their budget. The inhabitants who referred to me raised the subject in such a way that the municipalities simply approach it very easily, announce tenders and divide it into residents. They don't feel responsible for their own people and their own waste. They're doing what they can, which means they can order it from outside companies. And it is different in Western countries, in richer countries, where there are richer citizens of the European Community. They often export waste to municipal companies, companies that carry out the mission, companies that belong - as we would have to do - to municipalities and do not seek their own income, but carry out an environmental mission, which is also the mission that we have under the law. Minister! What influence does the Ministry have... We know that municipalities are free to do so. But what effect does the Ministry have on those fees being lower, so that those charges don't go up so much, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and are there any legal changes planned in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u23	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek answers the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! The problem raised by many municipalities is, of course, a challenge that we analyse very deeply, while remembering that it is really responsible for the waste management of the municipality. It is she who has the tools to properly shape price policy, but also to shape waste management. Price policy is a litmus paper when it comes to how the municipality manages its waste management and how it looks in the municipality. Of course, the Marshal of the voivodship, who accepts, prepares and forecasts waste management policy in the voivodship, is also very important. The first such action, which was taken by the Minister of the Environment, and the first such project that we worked on 3 years ago, was so-called. in-house - so that local authorities can rebuild their potential for waste management. From the perspective of these 3 years, we can say that it was a good decision to put these tools in this area and give these tools to local governments, because when you analyze the map of increases, you can see that on the one hand we have municipal companies, which are in the control of local governments or groups of local governments, and on the other hand private companies. It is very clear that prices, e.g. in Mazowsze, they were able to increase 100fold in the course of the year, but in local entities these increases are negligible. The municipality can, of course, shape its policy in a quite clear way. Of course, it is governed by the regulations that operate in Poland. It can calculate the amount of the fee depending on the number of inhabitants of the property concerned, on the amount of water used in the property concerned, on the area of the dwelling. Self-governments know best what the structure of residence in a given municipality looks like and thus shape this policy. At the same time, the municipality may cover the operating costs of the system from the fees collected. It is about receiving, transporting, collecting, disposing of waste, maintaining points for selective collection of waste, but also about very important environmental education, which can positively influence how citizens segregate waste, how these waste can then be added value through the sale of raw materials. These wastes do not have to go to RIPOKs, and they can go straight to the recycler, provided that the municipality is active in this area and is able to do this. Unfortunately, some local authorities, those that have not introduced a selective collection or have extended the deadline for its introduction, make these waste, instead of being recycled as raw materials, go to the landfill. And in accordance with the agreement of 2014 we were obliged as Poland to raise the Marshal's fee. The Marshals have a higher storage fee which should never be at the landfill. The capital city, you can say, pays a penalty of about 20 million PLN, because the landfills are hit by raw materials that should not go there. It's a big challenge. As you said, in the case of various capitals, which have been recycling for 50 years, as in Germany, this has been entrusted in a large part to municipalities. What we want to introduce also involves a waste package or extended producer responsibility. The aim is to increase the cost of placing products on the market. But we're ahead of these regulations. Of course, we have negative examples, of which I have said, but also positive examples, examples of local governments involved, also from the Łódź voivodship, which manage waste in a good way, in which the fee has not increased, which they use, also according to the circular economy, biogas from biowaste to power trucks transporting waste. I think it's not just the Wielenias, it's other cities. Mayor Okrasa and Mr Rychlik could probably talk more about how waste management can be managed efficiently. Of course, we see these challenges and we are working on a law on cleanliness and cleanliness in the municipality so that the municipalities can increase their control over waste management. We're working agile on a waste database project that will give us a full map of how waste is moving. We also want to give additional tools to municipalities so that they can reduce the fee by reducing the number of logistics activities in the field of biowaste. In particularly unurbanised areas, it can be used in the home composter - unless the municipality decides on a system in which it will be able to take it to the biogas plant. Waste management policy it is always the result of a long-term policy in this area. The availability of RIPOKs, the availability of installations or even containers, let us no longer call it installations, for residents, this necessary infrastructure, is very important. In this area, we can also benefit from measures that, thanks to the implementation of ex ante conditionality, we have been able to unlock. Ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to unlock EUR 1.3 billion of European funds just for waste management to address these challenges. The municipalities must also take up these challenges, the local authorities must be very strongly involved. They can finance solutions to these problems that result. The National Environmental Fund will announce competitions for PLN 1.3 billion this year to improve infrastructure and strengthen [[♪ The bell ♪]] Local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u25	Thank you very much. Please, the second question is asked by Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u26	Minister! Thank you very much for this response, but I would still ask if there are legal regulations in place to support these municipal companies. We know that where there are communal companies, it is possible to influence waste prices. Do we have any other mechanisms to influence the price? We know that before the elections in some local governments, e.g. in Łódź, it was promised that there would be no increase in waste, and after the election this increase was immediately - almost 100%. There are positive examples, for example. my Opoczno, where this price for 2019 is 7 PLN per person, was maintained even before 2014. But in Opoczno there is a municipal company, a company that the local government influences. The President is local and knows that he must act socially because he is accounted for by the residents. Can't we find it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] such mechanisms as to have a little influence, centrally, so that local governments can't...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u27	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u28	...to cheat residents in election campaigns?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u29	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u30	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you for that question. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, as I mentioned, in-house is that tool. As regards the camouflage of these prices before the elections, it may be possible to talk about such a trend that some municipalities maintained this price very strongly, tried to pay extra, and then had to implement waste management costs. They're translating in different ways now. Some explain that European standards for selective collection are an increase in costs, that the need for a waste charge that should never be at the landfill, that is why increases in fees. The selective collection here is crucial and properly conducted. This amount of 7 PLN in this city, which I mentioned, is also this charge for waste collected selectively. We're working on a law on cleanliness and cleanliness in the commune. And within this framework, we want to introduce some improved mechanisms that will strengthen local governments, but also remove the obligation to regionalise the transfer of biowaste and unsegregated mixed waste within the voivodship, so that in some way it will also increase competitiveness between RIPOKs. But, of course, let us remember that local governments are responsible for waste management and local governments should have tools. If a community doesn't want to run it, it's settled by the locals. Of course, any attempt to shift this responsibility level above may happen, but she must meet with a clear answer that it is clear, that is the direct responsibility of the local government. And we certainly want to strengthen local authorities in this area so that they can pay more to municipal waste management rates, but from those resources that will be obtained from a selective collection, from those raw materials that will be recyclable. But we also want in the new regulation, and the work on it is ahead of the permanent committee, to enable the municipalities to build, expand, modernise, maintain the operation of waste treatment facilities. We also want to increase incentives for selective collection so that municipalities can introduce such incentives to a greater extent. When it comes to these elements related to the crediting of the composter, this is it. It is also important that the levy is reduced and that the flat-rate settlement between the municipality and the recipient of municipal waste is prevented. The more we act in accordance with the waste hierarchy, which is how we fight waste, it will also have an impact on the amount of waste that is being collected. We also want local governments to be able to tender. These operators are very often faced with joint invitations to tender. It also resulted in an increase in costs, it did not allow for control. We'll make it possible for these tenders to be separate. It'll increase too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] competitiveness and give local authorities more tools to manage waste efficiently. And examples of Opoczna, Wielenia, many Polish small and medium-sized cities show that you can - not only small, also large ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Sławomir Nitras and Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, on the organisation in Poland of a ministerial meeting on peace and security in the Middle East - to the President of the Council of Ministers. Here's a question for you, Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would first like to ask you, Madame, and the service of the Sejm, to remember that in the Sejm, however, this Sejm is the most important and our time is as valuable as the time of ministers. And I would ask you to take care of our interests first or foremost, because our time... [[Oh.]] ...I emphasize, it's just as valuable. [[Applause]] Dear Minister, We learn through Cairo, from Mr Pompeo's State Secretary's speech, that the 13th and 14th February will take place in Poland, Warsaw, a conference at ministerial level on security and cooperation in the Middle East. It's been, like, 10 days since then, and it's amazing, and it's really just new questions. We have virtually no answers, and these are new questions. We are in the Sejm and I would like to draw your attention - this is also my consideration for your marshal - to the fact that the Sejm has not received any information on this matter, any information. You have not been the initiator of any information provided to Members. And I would therefore like to ask you a few questions within this limited period of time. Why didn't we get that information first? Secondly, since the conversations were held with the Americans on this matter and who conducted them, did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or MON, because Mr Błaszczak seems most active in this process? Did the president know about this because the presidential ministers were very surprised by this fact and I dare say they learned about it as much as we did - from Mr Pompeo's statement. Who's gonna be the contestant? Did we coordinate the project with our European partners? Did Commissioner Mogherini know about this? What's her position? Is it possible, given the position of the Iranian authorities... And did this surprise you, or was the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs surprised by Iran's position? Is it possible to modify the invitation and can you tell us today who [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did he confirm his participation in this conference? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u33	Thank you very much, sir. Please answer the question of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Maciej Lang.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As you know, a ministerial meeting on peace and security in the Middle East will be held in Warsaw on 13 and 14 February. The meeting will be co-hosted by Minister Jacek Chaputowicz and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. More than 70 countries from all regions of the world, including EU Member States, Russia and China, as well as EU representatives, High Representative and NATO and UN representatives were invited to attend the meeting. The conference has been underway for several months. The idea of her organization in Warsaw is the result of close diplomatic contacts with the United States. The latest elements related to the programme and the list of participants are currently being agreed. The organization of the conference in Warsaw is part of Poland's efforts to strengthen international security as a permanent member of the UN Security Council. The stability of the Middle East is crucial to global security. The Middle East is also a priority area of the European Union's common foreign and security policy. Stability in this region is crucial in terms of European security. That is why we invited all the Member States of the European Union and the High Representative of the Union Federica Mogherini to attend the meeting. During the conference, the focus will be on discussing cross-cutting problems for the region as a whole and not on specific countries. The discussion will address issues such as reducing the proliferation of arms, combating terrorism and illegal financing, tackling new threats, including in cyberspace, and addressing humanitarian problems effectively. The most important element of the conference will be the development of a positive vision for the Middle East. We want the conference to be the beginning of a process that will bring national positions closer together and, within the transatlantic community, contribute to the stabilisation of the Middle East. The conference is also important for Polish-American relations. It is an expression of our strategic partnership, close cooperation and trust. The decision on the conference was consulted with both the President of the Republic of Poland and the President of the Council of Ministers. The Polish Council of Ministers and the President of the Republic of Poland are responsible for conducting foreign policy. As I have already mentioned, 70 countries in the world have been invited to participate. Ms. Federica Mogherini was informed about the organisation of the conference before the invitation was sent out. The process of submitting confirmations on participation is still ongoing. We will probably have a full list of participants at the turn of January and February. The conference focuses on security issues and stability in the Middle East. As I have already mentioned, the main problems will be discussed in a cross-cutting manner. Why Iran wasn't invited. First of all, it is difficult to imagine such a step in the current state of American-Iranian relations. The conference is co-organised by Poland and the United States. Official information about the conference was provided in a joint communication by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Department. The Middle East is a priority area for the common foreign and security policy. Poland does not present a position different from the common position of the Member States of the European Union on this matter. We support the Union's efforts to maintain Iran in the JCPOA nuclear agreement, but at the same time we point out that the misunderstandings between the Union and the US regarding Iran's policy must not affect the deterioration of transatlantic relations. It is crucial for Poland that these relations are as close as possible, therefore invitations to the conference are given to such a large group of countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u35	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u36	Thank you. Dear Minister, Minister, you have said that I am trying to quote precisely that, given the state of the relationship between the United States and Iran, it was impossible to invite Iran. Given the state of relations between Poland and Iran, can we allow ourselves not to invite Iran's representatives to Poland? [[Applause]] I know how important the role of our partnership with the United States is, but we must not forget that we are at the heart of Europe, we are a member of the European Union and we are also bound by loyalty to our European partners. And the lack of full policy coordination in this area between the European Union and the United States, maybe also due to certain interests, differences in certain interests, we know. You did not answer my question very important, whether the Polish government is surprised by the reaction of the Iranian government and whether any action is being taken to neutralise this potential threat. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if your marshal will allow me another five seconds, I would like to ask you, ask you to go outside this manual a little bit and tell me what our agenda is for this conference, what the goals of Polish foreign policy or the Polish administration want to achieve with these kinds of projects. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u37	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Maciej Lang to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u38	Thank you very much. The Iranian Party has also been informed separately by us of its intention to hold a conference. We're in constant dialogue with her. I meet with the Iranian ambassador in Warsaw, as well as my talks with my counterpart in Tehran are scheduled. So the dialogue on this issue is ongoing. It's not like we surprised anyone with anything. Iran has the right to its various response factors. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise once again that we are having a dialogue on this issue with Iran. As I have already mentioned, the aim of the conference is to develop a platform for further action. In the ideal world, it would be good if the Americans and the Iranians came to the conference in Warsaw and sat together and talked about problems. But we have to be realistic, that's impossible right now. On the other hand, we are taking steps to bring the parties to the dispute closer. We are also working towards convergence within the transatlantic community. Let us remember that we are talking about an extremely important matter. It is about the Middle East and transatlantic relations, so I think that our initiative in this area is as much in line with the priorities of our policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Paweł Skutecki and Piotr Apel from the Kukiz club15. This is a question about organizing a conference on security in the Middle East in Poland, in the area of e.g. the security of Poles living in Iran, economic exchange with this country and the conduct of a sovereign foreign policy by Poland in the Middle East. The question is addressed to the Foreign Minister. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Appeal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u40	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! We'll take advantage of the fact that this question has been raised before, and we'll keep asking questions. The Minister said there was no surprise. I feel that not only the whole of Poland, but also half the world was surprised by this decision. In addition, if we hear that Iran cannot be a guest because the Americans do not want it, the question arises: What is our role outside the service role? It is hard not to feel that we are really a hotel where the conference can take place. It's terrifying. I understand that good relations with Americans are important, and I support that - it's worth sticking with them. On the other hand, if we take such a position towards the Americans and not another position, it is difficult to have a partnership. Questions are fundamental. First: Does the Polish government carry out any analysis of what we can gain and what we can lose as a result of this conference? Second question: Has the Polish government made any attempt to dialogue with the Americans in order to bring about a meeting between the two sides? This is the only rational reason why this conference would take place in Poland - bringing the Iranian side to a meeting with the American side, all the more so as we historically had very good relations with Iran and we could lead to this. The next question is: What is our real impact on the agenda? What can we even do about it? How did we influence the choice of guests? Who decided on the invitation list? Who decided what the parties were and what the agenda of the whole meeting would look like? And finally, was there any analysis Final effects? Do we have a plan for what we're gonna get as a result of this conference, except that we're gonna be here by now? [[♪ The bell ♪]] An official platform for Americans?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u41	Thank you very much. The questions are answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Maciej Lang.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u42	Thank you very much. I think that the conference takes place in Warsaw is our success. It doesn't come from the fact that the Americans couldn't arrange it at home. Of course, we had an impact on the list of invited countries. As I have already mentioned, it is more than 70 countries from different regions of the world, representing different attitudes to the problems we are seeing in the Middle East. It is therefore a platform for an in-depth discussion that will cover different points of view. This discussion will take place in Warsaw and I think it is definitely added value for us. As I have already mentioned, I fully agree that the ideal situation would be to meet Americans and Iranians in Warsaw. This is not possible at this stage, but we hope that the conference will not be a one-off act, but will initiate a process of developing an international community's solutions to the problems identified, which, of course, would be difficult to imagine in the end without Iran's participation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Paweł Skutecki to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u44	Minister! I understand you're a diplomat, and that's why you're avoiding answers. Minister! We could have become the world capital of dialogue and the place where we are looking for agreements, but if we do not invite Iran to the Middle East conference - i.e. the idea of Iran - we will unfortunately become a hood court. This is how the world will see it, not just the Arab world, but the Minister knows it very well. Minister! This conference already has negative consequences for Poles. There are Polish companies there. We can fly to Iran from Poland for PLN 500.600, tourist traffic is huge. We hear that since yesterday at the Iranian embassy in Warsaw no visas are issued for Poles. Has anyone in the ministry thought about the short-term and long-term consequences of such a decision? If so, could we see this report, SWOT analysis, because I think you did something like that, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u45	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u46	Thank you very much. As I have already mentioned, the conference in no one's mind is to have the character of any hood court. Consider the presence of countries such as Russia and China. I can't imagine these countries taking part in any hood court against Iran. As the name suggests, the conference is devoted to the issues of peace and security in the Middle East and not to Iran, i.e. it is under no circumstances an anti-Iranian undertaking, which, I stress once again, indicates the list of invited countries. Of course, we know about the issue of issuing visas. We have not yet been notified by the Iranian side in any way. Any change in the order of issuing visas... We're getting information. Once again, I stress that we are in constant contact with the Iranian side, having conversations... [[Was there an analysis?]] ...and at this stage... It's not like we prepare a report every day, as we expect. We know what we expect from the conference, we know what problems might be. On the other hand, I would like to stress that we can find in history many cases of initiatives that were criticised in the initial phase, but later it turned out that they were used to develop solutions that everyone appreciated. I hope that the conference we hold together will be an example of such an event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Mirosław Suchoń, Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Ewa Lieder, Jacek Protasiewicz, Jerzy Meysztowicz and Krzysztof Mieszkowski, club Modernzna, ask a question about the actions of the prosecutors in a situation where in public space there was hatred against views, nationality, racial, ethnic or religious, addressed to politicians, local authorities, public individuals, groups of citizens, as well as minorities and actions taken by the government to prosecute people who promote hatred on the Internet, as well as the system solutions proposed by the government in this respect. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In recent years, we have seen a significant increase not only in speech of hatred, but also in many cases of action and action, which can be described as calling for or direct use of violence. We are very concerned about the failure of law enforcement authorities to respond adequately to this type of incident. This may be a sign of tolerance for such behavior. Explain: Why investigations into such events as issuing political death certificates to nine presidents of Polish cities, beating up women protesting during the Independence March, carrying racist slogans during the March of Independence, hanging portraits of politicians of the Civic Platform on gallows, burning the dummy of Ryszard Petru, putting up a banner calling for the hanging of politicians of the Civic and Modern Platform and editors, editor Olejnik and your editor Lisa, at the Legion match, beating a CODE activist in Radom were either surrendered or dragged to infinity? I would also like to point out that some people have been held responsible: women as those who prevented marching, the person who was beaten in Radom - the CODE activist has been accused of participating in a fight. These are things, in my view, unacceptable, unacceptable, that this type of action is taking place. For this reason, I ask the Minister to explain, because such actions may result in people doing such acts feeling unpunished and the failure of law enforcement authorities to allow authorities to do so. As this is a very extensive material, I would also ask you to provide an answer to this question in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u49	Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Krzysztof Sierak, Deputy Attorney General, answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u50	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the D.A.'s office absolutely doesn't allow such behavior, it doesn't tolerate such behavior. The Public Prosecutor's Office conducts a number of actions related to the prevention of crimes of racial, religious, national, ethnic hatred, for political reasons, also for reasons of non-denominationality. First of all, we want to increase the effectiveness of detecting the perpetrators of these crimes in order to bring them to justice very quickly. What are we doing? This is primarily the monitoring of these cases in the District Attorney's Office, regional, the Preparatory Affairs Department, which I oversee in the National Public Prosecutor's Office, the legal investigations of specific cases. We have also created a special institutional and organisational framework for the conduct of proceedings in this category. Of all the prosecutors, about 4.5,000, we selected 105 prosecutors who only deal with these cases in the district attorney's office. The analysis of data for 2016, 2017 and the first half of 2018 shows that the number of cases that have been cancelled due to non-disclosure has decreased. In most cases, the perpetrators of these crimes are determined - this indicates a higher effectiveness of both the police and the prosecutor's office. Of course, prosecutors are absolutely aware that violence offences are the most dangerous in this category of crime, from the article. 119 § 1 of the Penal Code, and take decisive, adequate action against the perpetrators. Data may be provided: 212 cases under Article. 119 in the first half of 2018, 109 cases were indicted, i.e. in the middle of cases, 186 suspects were charged 245. Our policy is also changing in relation to preventive measures in relation to Article. 119. The total number of 43 preventive measures taken in the form of provisional arrest 39 concerned an act under Article. § 119 § 1 of the Penal Code. As regards the cases that I have been able to gather here, I will, of course, also give a written reply to this very comprehensive question. As regards this first issue, which you have asked about the publication of the death certificates of local government officials, I would like to point out that there were two criminal proceedings on this subject - one was conducted in the District Public Prosecutor's Office of Gdańsk-Śródmieście in Gdańsk and the other in the Public Prosecutor's Office in Wrocław. The subject of both proceedings was the publication on the Internet of political death certificates of 11 Polish city presidents who signed a declaration on the cooperation of the cities of the Union of Polish Metropolises in the field of immigration. In both proceedings, the prosecutors considered that such conduct did not exhaust the marks of the prohibited act. In the case of the District Prosecutor's Office for Wrocław, the Old City Prosecutor refused to open an inquiry into the article by order of 23 August 2017. 119, considering that the content of these letters constitutes an expression of political views and can only be considered inappropriate. This order was challenged by the President of the City of Białystok and the President of the City of Gdansk. However, by order of 14 March 2018, the independent District Court in Wrocław failed to take into account the complaints and maintained the decision of the prosecutor. The Court of First Instance pointed out that the inclusion of political death certificates on the Facebook portal is not a crime in the article. 119 nor does it constitute other offences suggested by the complainants. The district court stressed that the wording of the political death certificate clearly points to the political nature of the statement and does not constitute a threat of unlawfulness which would be realistic and assessed by the criminal legislation. For this reason, also because of the position of the court, but the decision in this case had, of course, been made earlier, this argument was also shared by the Prosecutor of the District Public Prosecutor's Office of Gdańsk-Śródmieście. As regards another case concerning the Independence March, which is still being conducted by the District Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw, very rich evidence in the form of photographic documentation, audiovisual recordings and monitoring was obtained in this proceeding. This, of course, is subject to some processing, to inspection. In this case, due to the extensive content of the material, by the decision of the Chief of Police, a team was appointed, including officers from the Department to fight Cybercrime, and experts were appointed in this case. A number of witnesses were interrogated in the investigation, among others. foreign nationals, which made it necessary to request a hearing with European investigative orders. Some of the interrogated people denied their participation in the Independence March. For this reason, it was necessary to obtain an expert opinion in the field of anthroposcopic research in order to determine beyond doubt whether those who denied their participation in the march participated in this march. All the actions were and have, ladies and gentlemen, in order to determine all the perpetrators without any doubt, in order to bring charges against them. Of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This has an impact on the length of this procedure. Of course, sir, I will answer questions about other matters in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u51	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Lieder for a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u52	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After recent tragic events in Gdansk, the assassination of President Paweł Adamowicz, and many of these acts of aggression in Poland, we see the need to repair and purify public space and public life from speech and expressions of hatred against the background of views, nationalities, racial, ethnic, religious or sexual orientation. Therefore, does the government provide for the creation of a body to address hate speech, aggression, xenophobia, discrimination in public life, and systemic solutions for such actions? I'm talking about education in anti-violence. And why hasn't it been done so far? Why are there no grants for NGOs who have been fighting for this for years, experienced and not supported by the state? I'm talking here, for example. about organisations such as: Hejtstop, Society for Anti-discrimination Education, Centre for Support of Immigrants and Immigrants in Gdansk, Africa Otherwise. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do these organisations not have support from the state, and they only have it from the local government?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u53	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask the Deputy Attorney General, Mr Krzysztof Sierak, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u54	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I represent the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office, and it's hard for me to answer that question. I think it's a question more addressed to the ministry. [[Yeah, that's a question for the ministry.]] Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u55	Thank you very much. [[But I'm asking you to answer in writing.]] Let's move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u56	I'm sorry. I'm asking you to answer my question in writing, if you can't answer it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u57	Thank you very much. And please, the next question is asked by Michał Szczerba, Waldy Dzikowski, Elżbieta Stępień, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, on the growing number of illegal institutions providing 24/7 care to chronically ill, disabled and elderly people. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, the question is asked by Mr Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u58	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Then, when tragedy occurs, as in the case of escape rooms, suddenly the state acts, suddenly the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration manages control in all such facilities. But we, ladies and gentlemen, have known since 20 November that in Poland it is working, and these are police data, transmitted at the meeting of the Senior Policy Committee, 128 illegal private nursing homes. What does an illegal senior nursing home mean? This means that the state does not exercise any control over what is happening in such a house. This means that there can be various tragedies, violations of dignity and human rights. My question is to raise public debate. How does the government intend to protect the rights of older people in our country, those who are transferred by the family, by carers to private homes that do not meet any statutory ministerial standards? These houses, like I said, are 128. There could be violence there. There may also be situations that took place in Zgierz, where dozens of people died. I would like to say very clearly that we expect concrete action on this issue, not when a tragedy is going to happen, but today when we have this data for 2 months. We've never had that kind of data before. transmitted. What does 128 houses mean? This means that we have registered on the basis of business activities 331 [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we have found 128 illegal cases. The question is, how many are there really?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u59	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u60	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start by saying that I completely disagree with the main thesis of the Member on which he based his question. It was thought that the State did not exercise any control over facilities that provide 24/7 care for disabled people, chronically ill people and elderly people. The question arises as to the basis on which this data was presented to the Member. These are the data from the checks which are carried out by the voivodship offices, by the voivodships, which are carried out by the controllers of the voivodship offices, checks, as a result of which 128 institutions providing services such as 24/7 care addressed to people with disabilities, chronically ill and elderly people who simply violate the applicable regulations contained in the Social Assistance Act are found in our country. We're a little bit different with regard to data on institutions operating under the voivodship's permit. I would like to remind you that institutions which comply with the standards set out in the Social Assistance Act and act legally, providing such services, must obtain permission from the voivode. This is the first element of verification, the first element of control. This check shall take place at the time of the decision to grant such authorisation. We have 434 facilities like this. As for the control procedures that have just shown... There's one thing I want to draw attention to. Of course, those facilities which have been authorised by the relevant voivode are also subject to control procedures because they, applicants for authorisation, declare compliance with the quite strict requirements set out in the Social Assistance Act, but this does not mean that these requirements are later, you can say, always implemented. Thus, both these 434 institutions - I stress - are subject to control, which are non-public, which operate on the basis of the permit of the voivodeship, as well as those which do not have such permission and provide services, can be said to be within the range defined by the legislator as 24-hour care provided for persons with disabilities, chronically ill and elderly. I agree with the fact that in recent years there have been an increase in the number of facilities that have operated without authorisation. As far as data are concerned, I can state that the checks that were carried out in 2017 established that such establishments operating without authorisation were 105, and that 128 of such facilities were established in 2018. With regard to the consequences of an action without authorisation, it can be said that criminal sanctions are also increasing, i.e. the number of penalties imposed on persons operating in this area without authorisation is increasing. As regards 2016, such penalties were imposed 36 in 2017.39. With regard to the decision to close such an establishment, of course, after a decision to operate without authorisation, the addressee of such a decision has the possibility of certain sanctioning the situation, i.e. the fulfilment of those conditions which are laid down in the Social Assistance Act and subsequently obtained the authorisation. When this adaptation to the applicable rules does not take place, it shall be decided to close such an establishment. Four such decisions were taken in 2016 and no closure decision was taken in 2017. As far as checks are concerned, which are carried out at such facilities, the number of checks per year is increasing. We have four types of control that are subject to the facility. These are comprehensive controls that are carried out on the basis of a special control plan. There are, you can say, ad hoc checks carried out also when the voivodship offices have a signal that such a facility operates and it is necessary to check the standard of services provided in it. Problem checks and checking checks shall also be carried out. As I said, year by year the number of these checks is increasing [[♪ The bell ♪]] and I think that the number of sites found to operate without authorisation indicates that these controls are effective and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u61	Thank you very much. The second question is asked by Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u62	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, with regard to the words of Mr Szczerby and the question of where you have information about the number of registered establishments: they are included in the information on the situation of the elderly in Poland for 2017, that is print No 3071. This is a document prepared by your resort. On the other hand, I would like to ask you, Minister, about the following issues. How does voivodship surveillance work on registered and 24-hour care facilities as well as those operating illegally? What is the cooperation of the voivodships with the local government, with the police in preventing the operation of illegal institutions? Why is it taking so long to prepare legislative changes that can stop illegal establishments from forming and operating? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u63	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer this question. You're welcome, Minister Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u64	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the issue of cooperation between voivodships and local authorities, with the Police in the field of prevention of illegal activities, in the framework of constant cooperation with our Ministry, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the departments of social policy of the voivodship offices report their problems in the field of control of such institutions, which in many cases results in a change of legislation that improves the work of the voivodship control services. As far as cooperation with the police is concerned, it is enshrined in the Social Assistance Act, Article. 127a. The provision provides that, in order to eliminate cases of obstruction or prevention of inspections carried out, the police are required to provide support to the inspectors of the provincial offices for access to and free conduct of such checks. The provisions of the Social Assistance Act are not the only ones that allow for punishing entities that are active in the life and health of elderly or disabled persons, because we also have appropriate rules in the Criminal Code. It's about crimes committed in this area, prosecuted under criminal law. Art. § 225 § 4 of the Penal Code criminalizes the interruption or obstruction of the performance of business activities to a person authorised to carry out surveillance and control activities in social assistance agencies or institutions providing 24-hour care to disabled persons, chronically ill and elderly persons. As regards the assessment of this cooperation, this assessment is positive, it can be said that there are no difficulties in this regard. On the other hand, as regards the issue of legislative changes that could stop the creation and pursuit of activities by such illegal institutions, I would like to say that a draft law has been drawn up in our ministry to amend the Social Assistance Act and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. This project provides for, among others, extending the scope of control powers of inspectors of voivodship offices carrying out control and surveillance activities in social assistance units, tightening the responsibilities of operators without authorisation of more than one institution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If a valid penalty for running one of the institutions is imposed, the penalty imposed on another institution will be 40 000. PLN, not - so far - 10,000. or 20,000. zł. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech, Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz and Mrs Elżbieta Duda, the Law and Justice Club, on the implementation of the e-release system. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The first question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u66	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Since 1 December, doctors can only issue an exemption for incapacity for work electronically, but until the end of November 2018, the medical authority has called for the implementation of this solution to be postponed. Therefore, a solution has been introduced to allow people other than the doctor to issue e-releases. These may be medical assistants whose doctors may authorize the issuing of e-releases. These may be nurses issuing e-releases or other persons performing auxiliary activities. How many doctors use this opportunity? Second question. For employers from smaller companies employing up to five employees, there is no obligation to have an employer profile on the Electronic Services Platform. However, in view of the benefits of the ease and speed of notification, do employers benefit from this possibility? And one more question. Has the total number of incapacity exemptions remained at the same level compared to previous years, or has it changed? Has there been an increase or fall in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u67	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Duda will ask the second additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u68	Second supplementary question. On the basis of current analyses of the Ministry, can the implementation of the obligation to issue e-releases in individual voivodships be provisionally assessed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u69	Thank you very much, Member. I ask you, Mr. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr. Marcin Zielenecki, to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u70	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that on 30 November 2018 a period of almost three years has ended as of 1 January 2016, during which it was possible to issue medical certificates on incapacity to work in two ways, i.e. in traditional paper mode and in electronic mode. I will also remind you that this transitional period was originally due to expire at the end of 2017. Twice it was decided to extend the transitional period, taking into account the opinion of the medical community in particular, which pointed out that it was not prepared for the rapid implementation of this single desirable form of medical release, e-release, an electronic form of medical release. I would like to remind you that this transitional period ended on 30 November 2018. In the meantime, we have put in place solutions to implement the postulates of the medical community. It goes on, among other things. on the role of a medical assistant who, on behalf of a doctor ruling that he is unable to work, is entitled to issue a medical certificate. I think the numbers best illustrate whether they sum up this 1.5-month period during which medical certificates can only be issued in this single form, electronic form. In September 2018, the number of exemptions that were issued in electronic form was close to 45%. As far as the division by voivodship is concerned, the voivodship in which this number was the largest in September 2018 was the voivodship of Mazowieckie, where 56% The redundancies were issued in electronic form and the voivodship in which the number was the smallest was Lubuskie voivodship, where e-releases constituted 28,5%. As regards the data for December 2018, i.e. data summing up the first month of e-releases, these data are already completely different. In electronic form, 99.72% was issued sick leave. The record holder - although these differences are not so big today - is the Podlaskie voivodeship, where the number of e-releases is 99.93%. The smallest number of e-releases is displayed in the Podkarpackie voivodship, that is 97.60%. With regard to the number of doctors entitled to issue medical certificates under the authority of the Social Insurance Institution - but let us also remember that these are the rights of dentists and fitters, older fitters - their number in September amounted to 145 600 people. As far as data are concerned at the end of 2018, this figure has increased to 146,400 people. With regard to the number of doctors who created a doctor profile on the PUE ZUS portal, which gave them the opportunity to issue e-releases - but this also shows the number of active doctors actually issuing exemptions - it amounted to 102 600 people. With regard to data at the end of December 2018, this figure amounted to 113 700 people and this is also very positive information, as it shows that the medical community has also responded to these changes. The latest figures from 14 January 2019 indicate that this figure has increased to 114 500 people. Another issue is the number of doctors who actively issued medical certificates on the electronic services profile of the Social Insurance Institution. In September there were 43 900 such doctors. It was 30%. doctors authorised to issue medical certificates. With regard to the most recent data, data from 14 January 2019, this number has - you can say - doubled, actually exactly doubling, because this number today amounts to 87 thousand. doctors exhibiting e-ZLA. 11 to 13 January [[♪ The bell ♪]] The first e-ZLA set up 326 doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u71	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u72	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Salary for illness is a solidarity achievement of civilization, undoubtedly in order for a sick worker to be able to heal and not care about his own livelihoods and his family. Now I ask you: Is it possible, on the basis of the data you collect, to analyse the causes and further medical procedures of the doctor and other health care professionals supporting the recovery of the worker? And second question. The disease is a classic random event. Is the possibility of transferring sickness pay to the National Health Fund considered so that the doctor issues this invoice, which is in fact a medical release, to his own money and not to the social security fund? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u73	Thank you very much. And I ask you once again, Minister, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u74	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As far as rehabilitation is concerned, in fact therapeutic, the Social Insurance Institution is, of course, able to monitor such rehabilitation, for example through periods of sickness allowance, but also rehabilitation benefits. [[Treatment.]] When it comes to the treatment process itself, of course this is the matter which is not the responsibility of the Social Insurance Institution, because what is interested in the Social Insurance Institution is the decision on incapacity for work due to illness. Of course it's called. medical sick leave, which is a certificate of incapacity for work due to illness, is used by the disease symbol, so to a limited extent the establishment Social insurance It also has information about the causes of incapacity for work, but - as I said - this is a limited scope and I think that - here - this type of data would be possible to obtain, but in cooperation with the National Health Fund and the Ministry of Health. On the other hand, as far as the second question is concerned, I would like to say that this situation, which is what it is today, is a positive one for me personally, i.e. In fact, we're dealing with a situation where a doctor with the right to be a doctor... In this whole series - let's say - events would have to be mentioned also by those who state, admit to the doctor, the felcher, the truth, the right to pursue the profession of doctor. But you can say that the doctor issues a medical certificate for the Social Insurance Institution, the Social Insurance Fund. It is important that the bodies of the Social Insurance Institution have control powers in this respect, i.e. ZUS controllers who are entitled to control not only how the employee uses medical leave, right, and whether he follows the indications of medical release or not. First of all, they can check the correctness of medical certificates. ZUS controllers have the appropriate instruments, they can have their own medical examinations carried out, they can call on the person who is declared unable to work because of the disease and himself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do not pass it on to others. examination of such a person, they may check the medical records. So that I personally consider these instruments sufficient. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u75	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The next question is asked by Cezary Tomczyk and Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, on the radical decline in public television coverage. The question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Tomczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u76	High Seym! Minister! The PiS government wants to allocate over PLN 1 billion to the Polish Television, which is exactly what the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid has collected in 27 years. And the question, actually, is the only question I could ask: why this sick idea? In 2017, we were faced with a symbolic decision, because in 2017 the Polish Television stopped talking to the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. The final of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, which for years has become actually such a national holiday of goodness, did not fit into Kurski's television, once called public television. You took TV from the citizens by handing it over to the parties, took TV from the citizens and made it what we have to watch every day at hours. 7:30. PLN 1 billion for Polish Television is PLN 1 billion for News, which have little to do with the news, but have much to do with the television journal. 1 billion PLN are salaries for TVP Info journalists who have little in common with the work of journalists. 1 billion zloty is money that will be used against another person - and this needs to be made very clear. It should also be made clear that this 1 billion PLN is the money of Poles, it is money from taxpayers' pockets. Let's think about how much this 1 billion PLN would do good to pass it on to the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, and how much it will do wrong on television, once called public television. On the side of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help is love. And on the TVP side? On the side of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help is respect for another man. And on the TVP side? Finally, on the side of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, there is credibility and trust from citizens. And on the TVP side? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u77	Thank you very much. Minister Paweł Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, it should be noted that the draft law amending the Act on subscription fees was submitted by a group of Members and is a parliamentary project. Therefore, the applicant is the appropriate addressee of the questions about the design. However, both the content of the draft in print No 3123 and its justification indicate that the compensation is due to the loss of revenue from subscription fees due to the statutory exemptions from the obligation to pay those fees. The Licence Fee Act establishes a broad catalogue of persons who are exempt from the obligation to pay those fees. The financial impact of such a catalogue of exemptions is estimated at about PLN 950 million per year. Such an amount would affect the subscription account of the National Radio and Television Council if these exemptions were not in force. The reasons for the law broadly and precisely indicate how the maximum amount of compensation has been fixed. Details of the number of persons exempt from the fees for which compensation is foreseen are also indicated. It is clear from the wording of the project and its justification that the purpose of the Act is to compensate for part of the loss of revenue from the fees which was created in 2018 and which would arise in 2019. As regards the second question of the Member State, it should be noted that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage exercises rights from the shares of TV Polska SA with its registered office in Warsaw. The powers in this respect have been strictly defined by law, and in particular by the Act of 15 September 2000. The Commercial Companies Code and the Law of 16 December 2016 on State Property Management Rules. According to the wording of the article. 368 § 1 of the Commercial Companies Code is the management of the company's affairs and represents it, i.e. not the Minister. The Management Board of TVP SA independently implements so-called. the activities of the ordinary management board, which include, inter alia, issues relating to the shaping of the content of television broadcasts and programmes, and is responsible for them. Minister for Culture and National Heritage acting as General Assembly pursuant to Article. 375 The Commercial Companies Code cannot issue binding orders to the Management Board concerning the conduct of the company's affairs, and therefore it is not responsible for the results of the ratings and other activities of television. These principles are also reflected in the provisions of the Radio and Television Act of 29 December 1992. I would like to remind you of the text of the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which provides that the management board of a public company of radio and television is not bound by instructions or prohibitions laid down by the general meeting if they concern the content of the programme. I would also like to draw attention to the wording of the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which states that the sender shapes the program himself and is responsible for its content. This means that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage has not been equipped with legal instruments to influence the decision of the public television board on emissions and ratings, does not initiate and evaluate the content of programmes and programmes. The economic activity of the company consisting in shaping the content and then issuing broadcasts and programs was not covered by the exercise of rights from shares, and the owner cannot interfere with them, especially in a company such as Television Poland. The obligation of the company's board of directors to prohibit the issue of certain programmes and programmes, as well as interference with the information policy adopted by the company or the development of the level of viewing is outside the scope of the competence and competence of the general public television assembly, i.e. Minister for Culture and National Heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, once again, Mr Cezary Tomczyk - an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The truth is, you're not gonna wash off that responsibility. You're not gonna wash off that responsibility. Answer the question of what would happen to the company and the owner of the company, who would not be interested in the fact that the company needs to be paid PLN 1 billion. When you took over television, in 2015, television had a profit, it had over 30 million profits. Today it has over PLN 1 billion in losses. Let's take a look at the National Radio and Television Council data. Here they are. If you are talking about a loss in Polish Television's finances, I would like to point out that the news of TVP1 has lost 1.5 million viewers since 2015 1.5 million viewers translate into advertising revenues, Minister. If the owner isn't interested, I wanted to tell you that you're gonna be more responsible for this. 1.5 million viewers are specific advertising revenues. The loss of 1.5 million viewers indicates that you destroyed the institution [[♪ The bell ♪]] public confidence, such as public television, that you have lost the credibility of the Polish Television.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u81	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u82	That's the basic problem today. Polish Television is no longer available. There's an institution that used to be called public television. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u83	Thank you very much. And once again, Minister Lewandowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u84	First of all, your Marshal, the High Sejm, I wanted to correct the fact that public television has 1 billion PLN of loss. Public television made a profit last year. [[Because she got 1 billion zlotys from the state.]] Public television has always financed public activities and missionary activities from subscription throughout its history. The moment Prime Minister Donald Tusk started calling for this subscription not to be paid, public television had to change the financing of missionary programs... [[Yeah, it's Tusk's fault.]] ...and therefore she had to start financing missionary programs from commercial programs. We want out of this pathology. We believe that if public television is to be public television and is to pursue public objectives, i.e. national objectives, it should be financed on a national basis. [[What's happening now is national targets?]] So these non-commercial programs, e.g. Television Theatre, whether you can watch sports on TV or high quality entertainment... [[What about high-quality news?]] ...should be financed by public money, as it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Jan Kilian, Aleksander Mr Forczynski and Ireneusz Zebra, Law and Justice, on the Act of 4 October 2018 on Employee Capital Plans. This is a question for the Minister of Finance. The first question is asked by Mr Jan Kilian. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As of 1 January, a law laying down rules for the collection of funds in employee capital plans, known as PPK, began to apply in Poland. The adopted rules have introduced a number of new solutions and opportunities which have not yet been encountered in Polish systems or programmes of a financial and pension nature. Particularly important for people who will postpone their funds in the PPK are issues related to their proper security and the possibility of early payment of funds in particular situations of life. This law guarantees what is set out in Article. 101, possibility of early payment 25% the measures collected in the event of a serious illness of the programme participant. The list of disease units is set out in Article. 2. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is, however, a closed catalogue and that the programme of employee capital plans will be in force for a minimum period of several decades. At that time, in view of the development of many civilizational diseases, there is a risk that the law will not take due account of many diseases and disease units which may occur or increase over a period of several decades. Therefore, I ask you to reply: Does the Minister provide for the periodic updating of the list of listed disease units in the Act on Employee Capital Plans, which will entitle programme participants to early payment of the funds collected in the PPK account in the event of a serious illness of such a participant? I would also ask for two words to comment on earlier solutions that existed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much better has this issue been developed now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u87	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Deputy Head of the National Tax Administration of Mr Piotr Walczak for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u88	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, it is very important, especially for future beneficiaries of employee capital plans. In order to proceed with this bill, the finance ministry conducted a very broad consultation. They've been going on for a long time, too. We wanted to achieve a certain social consensus and create a system that would ensure the safety of beneficiaries of employee capital plans, but will also give them the opportunity to use these funds in difficult situations of life. The fact is that we have established a closed catalogue of more than 20 medical units listed literally in the law. In case of such diseases, the beneficiary of the scheme may use 25% measures due to the difficult life situation that will arise then. By drawing up this list, of course, also on the basis of very broad consultations, we have tried to make it actually available, they are listed in a literal way, in which cases the illness causes unfortunately quite a financial burden on the beneficiaries and can make their living situation worse. However, I would point out that, in addition to this closed catalogue, it is also possible to use 25% of the capital accumulated in employee capital plans also in the event of disability or inability to provide work. So there is also a second possibility in the case of another disease, which will cause such consequences of life, that the beneficiary, but not only the beneficiary, also the ones closest to the age of 16, can take advantage of this 25% the accumulated capital. So there is another possibility here, and this applies to other disease units. However, in answer to the Members' question, we are, of course, planning a review. According to Art. The 143th Act on Employee Capital Plans is required by law to review the functioning of this Act every 4 years. The next review will be carried out by 31 December 2022, so as if this time interval is not at all, contrary to appearances, very long. And of course, just considering the functioning of this law, we plan to expand this catalog. I do not think that he is being narrowed down, because, as the Member rightly pointed out, civilization, of course, causes certain diseases, however, to be more widespread, and of course this catalog will probably have to be expanded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u89	Thank you very much. And I would ask you very much to ask the second question of Mr Aleksandr Anczynski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, One of the most important conditions for the introduction of the new law is the stabilisation of the fund's financing. Minister, can the partial financing of the contribution by companies reduce the margin and, at the same time, the savings of companies? What do you think, Minister, is it true that in time the flow of funds from the PPK will be close to the supply, so the increase in savings will only take place for a relatively short time, 10 to 20 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u91	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u92	Dear Marshal! Dear High Izbo! Of course, as I mentioned, this issue concerning the real stability of Polish entrepreneurs, who will participate in these programs, was above all at our heart in the creation of this law. And as I have stressed, this is why the consultation with the economic environments has lasted so long that we wanted to develop a methodology in this law, which will not jeopardise the stability and liquidity of these entrepreneurs. In this respect, we do not see danger, because I note that according to the provisions of the Act it will enter with the passage of time, because it is spread over certain stages to enter evolutionaryly and that both the beneficiaries and, above all, entrepreneurs learn, let us call it, this law. So we don't start with... The biggest group, which is, for example, a public administration, comes in at the end. Returning to entrepreneurs - we do not see such a danger here, because, of course, the funds will flow out, but I would point out that the catalogue of beneficiaries going into employee capital plans over time will be constantly expanded. That is why we do not see the danger here in this regard. We believe that this will not be felt from an economic point of view for Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u93	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Zbigniew Dolata and Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Mr Law and Justice, on remuneration for teachers in Poland, on the implementation of the process of increasing the salaries of this professional group and improving its financial situation in relation to the period of government of the PO-PSL - the question is addressed to the Minister of National Education. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In recent weeks quite a lot has been said about teachers' salaries. On the one hand, we have messages from the Ministry of National Education about significant increases which have been implemented since April Ub. in January, the next phase is now to take place and the next phase is to take place in January 2020. On the other hand, we have communications from trade unions and at least some of the teaching community about the fact that the teacher's salary today is far too low, too low in relation to at least the national average. Hence the question: Are these increases that the Ministry is planning, more than 15% within 19 months, the ministry believes that they are sufficient to bring about a level of teachers' salaries that will be satisfactory? Do these increases, which are being implemented at the moment, somehow improve the situation of teachers in relation to the reign of our predecessors? There is information in the public domain that the recent major increases to those planned today by the Law and Justice Government took place in 2012. Does this situation of lack for several years affect the material situation of teachers in any way? And the question that seems obvious today in the face of insinuation, or maybe suggestions that there may be massive protests by teachers: Will this increase that is to be implemented today significantly change the situation of teachers? Is this scale of increases comparable to the scale of increases that occur in other departments of public administration? Whether, for example, I do not know, in the state administration, in the local administration, in the ZUS or in the uniform services, the scale of the increases that have been recently, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it comparable to what teachers get? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u95	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education of Minister Maciej Kopcia to answer questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The remuneration of teachers in Poland, the implementation of the process of salary increase of this professional group, their financial situation - this improves in relation to the period of government of PO-PSL. Strengthening the prestige of the teacher's profession, among others. By guaranteeing wages corresponding to the specific social role of this profession, it is one of the priorities of government action in the field of education policy. In 2017, for the first time since 2012, the value of teachers' salaries was guaranteed and its funding from educational subsidies of PLN 418 million was provided. Since April 2018, as you said, a plan to increase teachers' salaries has been launched, raising them by 5.35%. Since January 2019, and thus after the budget has been adopted, with an adjustment from 1 January, this is another 5%. In 2020 this is another 5%. In less than 2 years, teachers' salaries will therefore increase by around 16%. Additional appropriations have been provided in the State budget to finance the salary increase. In 2018 it was about PLN 1.2 billion, and the draft budget law for 2019 planned an additional PLN 2.8 billion for this purpose. In total, additional funds were provided for the years 2018 to 2020 to finance the increase, taking into account further valorisation, that is almost PLN 6.5 billion. As a result of these increases, the average salary of teachers will increase: in the case of an intern - by 444 zł, contract - by 493 zł, the teacher appointed - by 640 zł, the diplomat - by 818 zł. And let's remember that diplomat teachers are about 60%. all teachers. Following the implementation of the teacher's salary increase in 2019, the Minister for National Education, as required by law, prepared a draft regulation setting minimum basic salary amounts as part of the teacher's salary. On 28 December, the project was submitted for inter-ministerial arrangements and public consultation. At present, during the consultation process of the draft regulation, talks are being held between the Minister of Education and representatives of representative trade unions of teachers, including on additional proposals presented by the Minister of National Education. These proposals include: extending the entitlement to the allowance for outstanding work also for teachers with a lower degree of professional promotion than a qualified teacher, the introduction of a new benefit for trainees' teachers - one-off benefits in the first and second years of their traineeships, the restoration of the obligation for school heads who are local self-government units to adopt the rules for the remuneration of teachers and to agree on it with teachers' unions, and the increase in the timetables for teaching the number of hours available to the school principal in order to strengthen the financing of classes developing interest in pupils. Discussions with trade union representatives on pay developments took place at meetings on 7 and 10 January 2019. The next meeting is scheduled for January 22. The trade union party presented its requests, i.e. an increase in the base amount by 1 000 PLN - this is from the project of the Polish Teachers' Association - an increase of the basic salary by 1,000. zł, the proposal to introduce additional solutions for other components made by the Trade Union Forum, an increase in the base amount by 15% Since January 2019 - the proposal of the trade union.Solidarity. It should be noted that, in the current legal state, the employer for teachers is a school and the head of the school is the authority authorised to do work on behalf of the employer who is an organisational unit. It should be further noted that these regulations take into account the amount of the premium: incentive, functional, for difficult working conditions. At the same time, local authorities have a duty to define the above mentioned. the remuneration components in such a way that the average remuneration of teachers corresponds in the area of activity of the local government unit concerned to at least the average remuneration of teachers referred to in the Teacher Card Act. And now I will answer the part of the Member's question that concerned this difference. Now, bearing in mind the issue of increases - their negotiations with trade unions started in 2008 and continued until 2012 - it should be mentioned that the outcome of discussions on this subject was really raise the penny, or introduce the so-called. card hours, i.e. 2 hours, which was additionally realized by the teacher. On 10 March 2016, one of the Members of the Civic Platform spoke about the costs at the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and Education. According to her calculations it was a cost of 1.7 billion PLN. In other words, after deduction of the scale of inflation [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the cost of just these 2 free hours you can see that actually today increases are realized in a much shorter time, and their strength is greater than those increases that were realized in the previous period.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u97	Thank you very much. Additional question - Mr Kazimierz Moskal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for the first part of the answer. I think we all see here the need to increase the salary for teachers. We expect the teacher to be well rewarded, and here, too, it's not about us looking for guilt in our predecessors, that somewhere, sometime, the base amount was frozen. Minister! I have this question: Can the Ministry see the need for a systemic, slow increase in wages, or maybe it will increase once, and then, as before, it will wait for it to settle itself? And that's like one question. What is the Ministry doing on this issue, and what action is it going to take? The second question, on the other hand... Because here are, like, three elements: the basic amount, the average salary and the basic salary. How can the Minister make it clear what the increase is in relation to these three elements: the basic amount, the average salary and the basic salary of teachers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u99	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking the Minister to fill in the answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in this public debate or in the message about what the trade unions are talking about on the one hand, and what the Minister of National Education is talking about, certain elements are emerging. They are all based on the provisions of education law. So the minister determines the minimum rates, while the other parts are defined differently. The consultations that are being conducted are essentially, from a formal point of view, related to a minimum rate regulation. If we took into account the minimum rates, the increase proposed by us for the trainee's teacher would be PLN 400, for the contract teacher - PLN 411, appointed - PLN 466, certified - PLN 548. At the same time, Parliament shall determine the amount of the basic amount and in accordance with the indicators set out in Article. 30 Teacher Cards are increased. And so for an intern's teacher it's 100% the basic amount and then the trainee teacher will receive the amount I was talking about, i.e. 479 zł, in the case of a contract teacher this is multiplied by 111, i.e. the amount of 532 zł, for a teacher appointed - 144, i.e. the amount of 691 zł, for a qualified teacher - 883. And now let's look at the second element that you have been asking about, that is, what it looks like in the remuneration structure or, in other words, what we have been talking about. These formal consultations on the minimum rates regulation should be taken into account when talking about the teacher's salary and see what this structure looks like. When it comes to an intern's teacher, this basic part is 81.1%. For a contract teacher, it's 76.7%. , for the appointed it is 66.8% For a qualified teacher, 62% And if we looked at this structure, we'd see that there are 4% interns' teachers, contract teachers - about 15%. , appointed - 20%, certified - 60%. For this largest group, that's 60%. , i.e. qualified teachers, the basic salary is 62%. On the other hand, the factors increasing this remuneration in the case of a qualified teacher are 11.3% internship allowance - most often they are teachers with a high internship, and it can be up to 20% - oversized hours [[♪ The bell ♪]] it's 11%, and we still have other, functional, motivational, etc. Of course, the Minister of National Education sees the need to change the system of paying teachers and that they gradually, year by year, grow. But this requires some change and simplification, because what we've been talking about today is extremely complicated...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: ...tough. And that's what we're going to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this session of the Sejm information will be considered on the deteriorating situation in the health care system, which was requested by the Polish People's Party Association - the European Union of Democrats. I would remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr John Łopata. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u102	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that no citizen of the Republic of Poland, no Pole needs to be proved that health care or, more correctly, a health care system is an essential element of a functioning state as such. For each of us has been, is or, unfortunately, will be forced to use medical help. Unfortunately, patients are concerned about the worsening health care situation, the increasing queues, the lack of access to specialist doctors. Unsolved problems with hospital financing cause people legitimate safety concerns. And lack of access to the right drugs, uncontrolled export abroad causes measurable losses. The appointment of deadlines resulting in several years of waiting for the planned operation has become a sad standard of Polish health service. The loud pre-election slogan, that the patient is the most important, collides with the hard Polish reality, which requires reliable repair. The problem of health care or health care does not apply individually to doctors, nurses or midwives. This should be looked at systemically, holistically. If one of the health care components does not work, the whole system will cease to function properly. That's why we're talking about the system. The latest and significant problem faced by hospital directors concerns the regulation on minimum employment standards for nurses and midwives introduced from 1 January this year, 2019. The number of nurses employed depends on the number of beds, and in the conservative wards you have to hire, however it sounds, 0.6 specialists per bed, for surgical - 0.7, and in the children's wards - 0.8 . Such standards are introduced by this regulation on hospital treatment. Unfortunately, in addition to the above standards, hospitals did not receive any remuneration for health care workers. The National Association of Employers of District Hospitals calculated that in order to meet these standards, hospitals would have to employ around 3.5 thousand in total. Nurses. The association also calculated that because of the standards they would have to eliminate about 4.5 thousand. places in hospitals, to make it sound a little bad, but that's the name of it - to match the number of beds to the number of nursing staff. For example, I can tell you that over 1,000. beds will have fewer hospitals in the Łódź voivodship, in Wielkopolska the number of places will decrease by 800 and in the Lublin voivodship where I come from, the liquidation will be 232 beds in 44 branches. Another worrying problem is insufficient funding for hospitals, especially district hospitals, those to which the patient has the closest, those that provide medical care for the largest number of patients. The next fundamental problem that we will face is the draft amendment to the Public Health Benefits Act, namely the lump sum for 2019, to be determined on the basis of the two accounting periods of last year in total. The main problem is the valuation of medical benefits, because they do not correspond to the costs. In addition, hospital directors highlight problems concerning inter alia. Too late a deadline for announcing their amount for the next settlement period, not informing the National Health Fund about the level of over-execution or non-execution of other entities, no guarantee of payment for benefits above the limit. I therefore have a few questions for the Minister and I would very much like to ask for an answer. How many hospital beds will be removed in the country? Is there any statistics being prepared yet? If you wait in line for a place in the hospital, wouldn't the removal of the current places cause a paralysis of the functioning of the health care system? Please also tell us what hospital directors are supposed to do, whether to provide the necessary space for patients or not to comply with the rules of law, because that's what this is all about. And why did the Ministry of Health allow such grossly low prices, especially given the increase in salaries in certain medical professions or the increase in other costs, such as indirect costs? We are not quite sure about the costs of electricity. Please tell me what the funding from over-performance of medical services will look like. Will the hospital continue to sink in debt if it provides proper [[♪ The bell ♪]] the level of the procedures being carried out? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u103	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u104	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Mr President, for putting such an important subject to today's debate in the Sejm. The issue of health protection is a very important element of our country's sense of security. We are all aware of how important it is that in a life-threatening state we have a proper health benefit, appropriate, i.e. at the right time and the right quality. The problems that arise in the protection of health and which at the moment have been drafted by the Member are the problems that have also been collided with by previous governments, and we too are colliding. The current government, formerly Prime Minister Beata Szydło, now Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, considers health care as a priority. To confirm this, I would like to give you a few examples. He pointed out that there was no provision for health protection, for the proper functioning of hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen! Just look at the plans of the National Health Fund, what the plans looked like in 2013, 2014 or 2015 and what the implementation of these plans looked like, i.e. the amount of resources allocated to health care, as well as how much money we are currently spending on health services. It should also be noted that for the first time the current government has decided to allocate additional resources from the State budget for health services. This was the first time in 2017, when thanks to your vote a change in the budget law was adopted and additionally PLN 1 billion was allocated from the state budget to the NFZ for health benefits. In 2018, not so long ago, there was a revised budget and an additional 1600 000 were allocated from the state budget. zł, which means have been addressed to the National Health Fund. They will be used to finance health benefits. These are the elements that have not yet taken place in our country. The National Health Fund budget has not been strengthened as much as it has been for the last two years. In general, it must be stated by comparing the resources that were allocated to health care in Poland... In 2014 it was 72 billion PLN, in 2019 we spend 92 billion PLN on health protection. In a few years there is more than 20 billion PLN in the National Health Fund and these funds are spent on health protection. It should be stressed that for the first time, the current government has prepared a law that guarantees a systematic increase in health expenditure. So-called. 6 per cent law, which states that in 2014 it will be allocated to health protection in Poland 6% gross domestic product is a fact. During these few years more than PLN 830 billion will be added to the system. These are the concrete actions of the current government, which make health measures more effective and thus more funds are transferred to specific medicinal products, and these funds are spent both on salaries and on the increase in the number of health benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! You mentioned in your statement that the valuation of benefits has been the same for several years. I would like to stress that additional funds are being paid to medicinal products. It's about 10%. the budget of the National Health Fund, which has a separate impact on the remuneration of health professionals. The cost of remuneration is at the expense of the benefit, so it cannot be said that there is no means to increase the cost of health benefits. In addition, the Minister of Health analyses the situation on an ongoing basis in individual medicinal products, analyses the financial results and takes specific corrective action. Among other things, we have increased the indicators - depending on the number of procedures carried out, this indicator is from 1.1 to 1.25 in terms of the current procedure - in areas such as oncology, orthopedics, ophthalmology. Indicators for clinical, high-specialist, pre- and post-graduate trainings were increased to 1.1. Pediatric indicators have been raised to level 1.2. Additional appropriations have also been made available for remuneration. This is the additional increase in funds that have been transferred to medicinal products due to wage increases as well as the increase in the cost of providing health services. This appropriation is also intended for hospitals. Analyzing the National Health Fund's financial plans, we can see that the amount of money transferred to hospitals is clearly increasing. Now I would like to address the issue of changing the number of beds in hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of changing the number of beds moving towards both reducing and increasing the number of beds is a natural issue, a management element which is a mechanism that adjusts the hospital base to the current health needs of the population, to the priorities of the region concerned. Hospital directors have at their disposal maps of health needs, they have epidemiological, demographic data at their disposal and it is obvious, natural and expected that the number of beds will be adjusted to suit needs. Of course, at the moment, we are seeing movement in the country in terms of changing the number of beds in individual hospitals. Those amendments shall be notified to the lists kept by the voivods. Voivodeships monitor the situation on an ongoing basis, examining it for the safety of residents as well as the availability of benefits. I would like to say with full responsibility that the changes that have been revealed in the voivodship registers so far do not adversely affect safety in the field of health services. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, we've been analyzing beds in hospital wards for which the directors have filed beds for liquidation. What does it turn out to be? In some hospital departments, the use of beds in individual hospitals was between 11% and 11%. 11% The hospital base in some branches was used - up to 60.70%. The average use of beds in Poland is 68%. Therefore, I understand that these activities of hospital directors are organisational actions aimed at adapting the potential of individual medicinal entities to the current expectations of the public, to current expectations in terms of epidemiology, demography, as well as maps of health needs. The next question was about queues. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of queues has been a problem that we have been seeing on our market for several decades. The current government by providing additional resources, among others. Those I was talking about from the state budget make the queues change in many areas, shortening the duration of stay. [[Where? Which one?]] Last year we provided additional funds; e.g. in the area of outpatient specialized care about PLN 300 million was provided. At the moment, we are at an analysis stage because, as you know very well, hospital reports are transmitted to the NFZ after the end of the quarter. We're in a phase. [[♪ The bell ♪]] analysis and we will present the situation, while it can be said with full responsibility that the waiting time for endoprosthesis, cataract surgery, MRIs, CT scans has been reduced. The waiting time has also been shortened... [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u105	Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: ...in a lot of specialized clinics. As regards the valuation of benefits, I have already informed you about this. HR issues... Minister, thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Good. Thank you. [[More questions...]] Of course, the Minister will still have time. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? In that case, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u106	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I think it is a good thing that this question has been raised and we are dealing with this topic today as part of the current information, because this gives the Minister the opportunity to remind once again how much has been left. made in three years in health care. If anyone doesn't remember that, I'll remind you again, for the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! We're increasing expenditure on health care. In addition to this growth, which we have observed every year under the National Health Fund, we have additional budgetary guarantees and are being transferred, and will be in the future, the money from the state budget for health care until reaching 6% gross domestic product. Ladies and gentlemen! We've finally stopped talking and dreaming about computerization in health care, and we're just starting to do it. I will not remind you of what has been happening to platform P1 for many years and the huge mess that has been in this area. Now we have an e-prescription, an e-direction... [[Where?]] ...and in a moment we'll be computerizing the whole thing. We're catching up on your time of government. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of education is also solved: there is increased recruitment for medical studies, there are more residents. We also dealt with and dealt with salaries. We're increasing pay in health care. I would also like to remind you of a bill that has been mentioned in the past, a law about a network of hospitals that cleans up this system. And finally, I think it's worth reminding you once again, and I'm going to ask the Minister about the question of queues, for example. After all, if an additional few hundred million zlotys were also allocated from the state budget [[♪ The bell ♪]] e.g. For endoplasty or cataract treatment, this few hundred million zloty queue has been cut short. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u107	Thank you. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, PO-KO. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Thank you very much, thank you very much. Can you hear me?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u108	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to the two statements made by the Minister that health protection is an important element of safety and that financial resources have increased. As regards the resources, the NIK report makes it clear that, despite the fact that it was actually given more than 5 billion from the National Health Fund, there is no access to health services and, moreover, there has been an increase in inequality, and even in some cases, some areas are talking about exclusion. But when it comes to security, I'll use numbers. Firstly, what effect do we have on the flagship law on hospital networks? It was supposed to give full stability to the institutions, but unfortunately, it turned out that about 30% facilities, mainly private ones, are outside the system, which resulted in reduced availability. 12 billion - this is the amount of hospital debt at the moment. This is an absolute record, so where can we talk about security? Hospitals were put in the network on the most expensive model of treatment, i.e. hospital treatment. Hospital treatment is 50% National Health Fund resources. And where is the care of POZ and specialists, where was it supposed to reduce queues and increase availability? A few numbers. Namely, the diagnosis was supposed to last 30 days, and it lasts 107; rehabilitation is 300.400 days waiting in queue and reduced number of benefits; the access to the clinic is curiosable, e.g. infectious diseases, where waiting time is about 107 days, which threatens even an epidemic. And the most important things about epidemiology and health indicators. In 2016 and 2017, there was an increase in deaths. We have two spades, January and February, 16,000 each. In total, it's over 30,000. More deaths. And besides, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what does the national fund confirm? Increase in cancer incidence, decrease in 5-year survival, increase in cardiac failure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u109	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u110	What is epidemiology and safety? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u111	Thank you, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The matter that we have come to discuss today at this moment is perhaps the most important for every Pole, for every citizen. There's no need to justify it. The problem is, it is reported by hospitals, especially county hospitals. I've spoken to several directors and some chiefs. If you have to hire four or five nurses in the ward, that's a problem today. This really is a big problem, especially in internal or neurological wards, which results from the knowledge I have, and my observations are that the beds were in the hallways, which means there was no savings. Maybe there are branches where there's not a full cover, but saying there's a 68% bet. In the case of county hospitals, it is ridiculous. And another thing. Maybe there's more money, and I think there's more money, but they're costing procedures, more expensive equipment, more expensive drugs, and all that makes them extra costs. And we've learned, and it's not just in the case of health care, to operate huge amounts - 830 billion. Let's talk about what's going on right now, what's the problem right now, and let's not stretch it out in time for 10 years, because it's going to be 830 billion. Because it's obviously impressive, but the problems are today, here, here, and that's what county hospital directors are colliding with, because that's the first thing that affects them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u113	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u114	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! As an MEP, I am honored to continue working as an orthopedist and as a doctor. And I would like to give you, in particular, an up-to-date report from the battlefield. Well, so often are examples of endoprotez, that we can do more. Indeed, thanks to an incredible effort, we managed to increase the number of procedures performed, but suddenly it turned out at the turn of 2018 and 2019 that we needed at least five nurses in the orthopaedic ward and at least seven instrumentalists. And those needs are, just no nurses. And with that kind of financial opportunity at our disposal, we're not in a position to perform planned contracts, because there's just no one. To this, the factors that emerged - we were forced to reduce the number of beds - caused that after long negotiations my 54-bed unit should have these beds 39. After analyzing the whole situation that exists in the large region of Poznań, I managed to negotiate 49 beds with my director, but no one predicted that nurses working in heavy wards - I used to call them miners in white coats, because they work really hard - they could also get sick. Therefore, today, instead of 54 beds, I work on 29 beds and I am not even able to provide adequate care for people with injuries in the large region. The department just uses extra beds in every free place. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Galla, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You said that the changes in the number of beds are natural. This should be the case, but following the introduction of the regulation of the Minister of Health this year, which increases the standards for the number of nurses compared to the number of beds, this is unnatural. If we looked at what the regulation sounds like and how it was prepared, we could say that you did so in isolation from consulting the medical community, without analysing the rates of bed use. Let me put it this way: I think you're thinking about doing an uncontrolled reduction in the number of beds. I'll use an example. I'm Chairman of the Social Council at one of the regional hospitals in Opole. This is a neuropsychiatric hospital. And it was last Monday that an extraordinary meeting of the Council on this regulation was convened. Ladies and gentlemen, the use of beds in this hospital is over 100 percent. You know very well that in this area of medical services there is no referral of patients, every patient must be admitted and this is done practically in the corridor. There are about 20 nurses missing in accordance with this regulation. In addition, nurses are slowing down because working in this hospital is a work of great intensity, demanding, I would say, a lot of effort these nurses are looking for work elsewhere. What do you want to do with these kinds of examples? How are you going to prevent beds from being removed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask you about your policy on training nurses. Are you able to allow medical rescuers to operate?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u117	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u118	And the question of financing these positions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u119	Mr President, I am sorry, but unfortunately, the time has run out.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u120	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u121	Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For many years there has been a discussion about the dramatic situation in Polish nursing and obstetrics. What was the situation during the reign of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha ha ha.]] Exactly, ladies and gentlemen, I remember. [[Eight years.]] [[Voice from the room: 3 years, 3 years.]] It wasn't easy, no raises for eight years. The hospital's restructuring was that nurses were being fired. There was no backup. [[Three and a half years.]] You were destroying the profession of nurse, midwife. Now I know that one of the priority issues in Polish health care... [[Yours please explain yourself.]] ...is just a matter of a group of nurses and midwives. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not make speaking difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u124	Minister Szumowski gives us priority. The support of these professional groups is not only to ensure stable wages, but also a system of solutions that will lead to generational substitution. Minister, tell me how the situation of nurses and midwives has developed in recent years and how the Ministry improves the situation in the professions of nurses and midwives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: How many protests were there?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u125	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! It was mentioned here that the human resources situation is extremely important. Of course, I agree with the fact that both medical staff and so-called. medical staff have an impact on the health situation. And here I have to say that every medical profession is extremely important, and by you these professions are very unevenly treated. Of course, these professions, which are numerous, or which you think are necessary, are doctors, nurses, paramedics, all of you, you know, have won the raises right now. On the other hand, as far as all other professional groups are concerned, I ask the Minister what you intend to do in the case of psychologists, nutritionists, medical technicians, other professions. Of course, the law on the lowest basic salary has entered into force and should be applied only that what follows from this law, these three professions I have been talking about have long exceeded, while the rest of the medical and circum-medical professions have not even come to this conclusion, or are actually part of what they should be doing. I think there's a lot of talk about this, and you also said that there's been a huge increase in expenditure on health care, and in the voivodship departments, these expenditures have also increased, but I'd like to know which positions, because this is important. It should also be said that the remuneration of certain professional groups is financed by the National Health Fund. My question is, first of all, how are the other medical professions involved? I'm not talking about so-called anymore. The gray staff who earns, say, 2,300 or 2,200 per hand, are those salaries in health care, and who's tired of waiting for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u127	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I was going to ask about innovative therapies, but I listened to my colleagues from the Civic Platform and I would like to ask the following question. Is it possible to train a doctor or nurse within 3 years, and is it true that there is a huge generation gap? Generation gap, we are now trying to fill as quickly as possible, creating and opening more places in medical departments, creating and allowing for residents much more, or actually all doctors, and even doctors who took exams during our predecessors' days, so that they can open specializations and educate themselves. And is it true that, in fact, a doctor's education without any temporal perturbation is a minimum of 12 years? So today's generation gap, which is in the system that you're talking about, is the result of a minimum of 12 years' lack of action, because the education of a doctor is 6 years of medicine and 6 years of specialization. Is it true that your nurse needs to study for at least five years to get into the health system? [[Not at all. 3 years. What are you saying?]] We are in power, ladies and gentlemen, 3 years, which is today, ladies and gentlemen, we have what you have abandoned, what you have not done.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u129	Mrs. Gelert, I asked you not to disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u130	This is the first case. And the other thing is, about putting out the beds. I'm just calling myself a hospital, for example, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which has been in charge of the Civic Platform and PSL for many, many years: in Radom, almost 200 beds were removed before the hospital network law entered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u131	Thank you. Mr. Marek Hok, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Oncology: Minister promised to improve oncology care, to improve the availability of diagnostic tests. Statistics meanwhile: about 170 thousand people get sick every year in Poland. Poles. In 5 years, these diseases will be 25%. more, and in 15 and 20 years the number of cancers will double among Polish patients. Then oncology will be the factor that will take first place when it comes to the deaths of Poles, ahead of cardiovascular diseases, which are in the first place today. So what if we're one of the countries that has the lowest incidence when it comes to oncology, since we have the highest mortality rate due to oncology? About 100,000 die every year. 100,000 people. Polish patients for reasons of oncology. This is one big voivodship city. Currently, about 1 million Poles suffer from oncology diseases. Outlays: only approx. 6% all expenditure on health care is earmarked for the treatment of oncology diseases. In Poland, per capita amounts to EUR 42 per oncology treatment. In the Czech Republic, so close to us, already 85 euros, in France - 156 euros, and in the United States - more than 300 euros per person. The economic costs that we bear in relation to these problems, with oncology patients, are over EUR 4 billion in 2015. Access to medicines: our cancer patients do not have access to more than 70% those medicines that are registered in Europe. They have access that's difficult or they don't have access at all. Of the 19 cancers, the most serious cancers that lead to the death of patients in Europe and the world, we Poles have access to the latest medical technologies [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the treatment of only one cancer. It's about ovarian cancer, where we can apply current medical knowledge. The Minister was supposed to take care of oncology. I'm asking for an answer when it's done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u133	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Fellow Members! Effective and efficient health care cannot exist without well-qualified healthcare professionals. Due to demographic change in the country, among others. with an ageing population, this issue is of particular importance. According to OECD data, the World Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Poland suffers from a serious shortage of medical staff in all areas. I'm gonna go talk to the doctors. Statistically in 2017 at 1 000. We've had 2.3 doctors, and the European average is 3.4 doctors. Migration does not solve this problem either, rather it is that more doctors from Poland leave than come to Poland. The OECD data also leaves no doubt, e.g. in the UK, 28% work doctors of another nationality, in Poland it is only 1.7%. By translating this into absolute numbers: in Poland it is 104 doctors, in the UK - 5649 doctors. I have a question for the Minister, what action will he take to increase the number of doctors, given what my colleague said in front of me, that the doctor's education cycle is 6 years, or, in fact, to educate a specialist, that is 10 and 12 years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u135	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u136	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question will be on the financing of oncology according to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Public Health Service Financing Act concerns the following case in 2018. Minister, why this law is not implemented and the provisions of this law are not implemented in the financing of unlimited benefits, among others. such as oncology benefits carried out under the so-called "oncology benefits'. The oncology package? From the president of the National Health Fund in eight months' time. It already appears that the benefits for the amount of about PLN 270 million have not been financed. How does this happen? How is the oncology centre supposed to function if, after 10 months, it has almost 40 million unpaid benefits? Why is this so, that when you look at the table of the National Health Fund, it can be seen that the problem generally concerns five voivodships: from Mazowieckie, where the shortage of funds is over PLN 100 million, through the voivodship of Kujawsko-Pomorskie, where the shortage is about PLN 50 million, to other voivodships like Lower Silesia or Silesia? In this connection, Minister, I have a question: Is it rational to spend PLN 50 million today on the creation of piloting the oncology network while not ensuring the ongoing financing of unlimited oncology benefits? Is it rational to spend this money on two centres and not finance availability in all oncology centres in Poland? Please answer me in writing, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u137	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On 11 January this year, at a press conference with the participation of the directors of hospitals, for which the founding authority is the local government of Opole Voivodeship, Vice-Marshal of Opole Voivodeship Roman Kolek announced the liquidation of 240 beds in its subordinate institutions. Minister! My question is: How have beds been used in these hospitals so far? Is there any risk to the health safety of patients using these medical facilities due to their planned decommissioning? Does the Ministry of Health have detailed information on this matter? I have one more question for Members of the Civic Platform. At this point, is it justified, as we hear from our colleagues, to receive highly qualified nurses specialized allowances? Such situations occur in the district hospital in Prudnik. Your colleague from the Civic Platform, the senior, Mr Radosław Roszkowski, has taken such action since January this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u139	Thank you. Ms Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u140	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! I must say that I was very embarrassed to hear that the queues cut by a few hundred million zlotys, not cut short to help patients. That is what the PiS Member said. You're actually throwing all this stuff at the local government because you're introducing laws, but it's done by the local government. This is a capacity adjustment by hospital directors. Minister! It is known that in many places beds were misused and not necessarily the ones they should have. By introducing regulations, you eliminate these beds instead of re-qualifying them. You know that Poland is getting old today. There are a lot of people requiring a different kind of care than before. Where are the geriatric beds in place of those that will be destroyed? Where are the nursing and medical facilities? The lady is very pleased to say that we have spent so many billions of zlotys more. Or just because you gave the money, is it great? That's not true. That means you spent the money, but you spent it wrong. Look at what happens in primary health care and outpatient care. People who don't get outpatient help are gonna be looking for help in those hospitals where you've cleared your beds. Please answer in writing: How many doctors have left POZ and with outpatient specialist assistance only due to the computerization of health care services, what is inevitable? You did not secure older, retired, highly experienced IT doctors so that they could continue to treat patients - which would shorten the queues - but did not have to operate a computer that they did not understand and did not know. Who's losing it? Patient. And you have no idea. Aren't you ashamed of the complacency you expressed today in front of millions of Polish patients? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you really not ashamed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u141	Thank you very much. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 minutes 02 hours 12 min 07]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 7 of the agenda. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Szulowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, An important problem of our pharmaceutical market has been the uncontrolled export of drugs abroad for many years. Estimates are probably different, some say about PLN 1 billion in terms of the value of these medicines. Profits from these exports, i.e. the so-called. re-export or reverse distribution chain could be estimated at PLN 600.700 million per year. Instead of following the legal route of drug distribution from the manufacturer to the pharmaceutical warehouse, further to the pharmacy, finally to the patient, drugs were exported abroad, because there they are normally even several times more expensive. This was profited by wholesalers, pharmacies, wholesalers abroad and producers, and was lost by patients for whom drugs were often lacking, and by the state budget. Some medicines, such as anticoagulants, shields in the fight against cancers, insulins, were exported massively. My question: Has the Ministry put in place any mechanisms to prevent the export of drugs abroad? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u143	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Gądek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! High Seym! Today we are talking about a deteriorating health situation and most speakers, for many reasons, are focusing on the situation of hospitals, which is actually getting worse. On the other hand, we forget a little about the most important - it would seem, or at least it would be in the assumptions - a place in the system, i.e. the basic health care. Minister! I have some specific questions and I will want answers in writing to most of them. By the 2018 regulation, the Minister of Health reduced the compulsory, possible number of patients declared to the doctor of POZ to 2,5 thousand. It would seem that this is a great case, only that at the same time the number of doctors working in primary health care is definitely decreasing, and the law on POZ, instead of improving the situation, paradoxically, is definitely making it worse. Please answer in writing, something we have been asking for for many years: What is the age structure of doctors working in primary healthcare today? How many doctors in Poland meet this standard that they may have declared up to 2.5 thousand. patients. If he has more, unfortunately he is punished for it and must not work any more. Minister, does the Ministry know that the introduction of mandatory e-releases caused the standard doctor's working time to be extended by 1.5 hours a day by malfunctioning of the system? Not because of the doctor's incapacity. We don't have any money, we don't have any trained medical assistants, so we do it instead of spending time with a patient. Does the Minister know - as we have already indicated - that the primary healthcare doctor must accept about 10% patients more, only and only by prescribing senior prescriptions from specialists, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what consequently excludes 2 hours of care for the patient during the standard working time of the primary healthcare doctor? We don't have time for prevention, we don't have time for diagnostics.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u145	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u146	Thank you very much. There are a lot of questions. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u147	Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u148	We'll put the rest in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, you haven't turned off the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u149	Member, I've turned it off, I've turned it off. I beg you, as the 10 seconds pass so that you don't prolong. I must treat all Members fairly. Mr Marek Rząsa... Marek Polek, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u150	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The results of the cyclical debate for health, which is due to end in June this year, will be a way of developing effective directions for changes in the existing health system. It is intended to provide a clear outline of the system of rational involvement of measures, taking into account the needs of patients, as well as representatives of medical professions and all stakeholders. The final product of this debate is to be a model of an effective system of medical care for patients and meeting the expectations of medical staff. I wanted to ask the Minister: At what stage is this debate today? Are there scheduled regular meetings and conferences in different regions of the country and are they delivering the expected results? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u152	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the beginning of his office, Minister Szumowski as one of the priorities indicated a reduction in bureaucracy, administrative responsibilities of doctors. Meanwhile, from year to year, there are more and more of them from month to month. And yet bureaucracy is nothing more than stealing from patients. Stealing from the priceless time that doctors could devote to them if they didn't have to fill in reports, opinions, benefits, reports, which, in fact, are probably only needed by NFZ officials and the Ministry of Health, because they don't bring anything to diagnose and treat patients. According to studies and surveys conducted among doctors in clinics, clinics, POZs, as long as 3/4 of their time takes them mandatory paperwork, and only 1/4 of the time remains to talk and examine the patient. I don't need to convince anyone that, in medical terms, this is a sick situation, and it's for both sides. This is because the time of doctors is wasted, who, instead of treating patients, using their education, competences, experience, must do so by proverbially as IT specialists. In turn the patient has the right to feel and uncomfortable, and the subject in such a situation, because he goes to the doctor to be heard, heard, evaluated, and should come out with a proper diagnosis and a plan of rapid and effective treatment, which results in full recovery. So if it's that simple, then why aren't we still able to bring it in and achieve it? And yet ideas are, for example, about hiring medical recorders, secretaries or medical assistants. And I have a question, Minister: When is this going to happen and will the people in these positions finally be able to count on these positions to be treated as a medical competition rather than as an office competition? Please answer me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u153	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're discussing health care today. This is an area of public life that will always be dissatisfied with the level of funding. It is difficult to imagine a situation when every sick person will receive immediate and effective help, and in health care units the staff will be waiting for the patient. Technical and technological advances also increase costs of increasingly modern equipment. Hence, the state's expenditure on health care must increase. The issue is how to, at least in part, please and patients, and staff. Hence, the question is: What has been the dynamics of the increase in expenditure on health care in Poland in recent years? And in the context of today's discussion about health care, I would like to draw your attention and thank the Government of the United Right for the possibility of creating a medical department at the University of Opole, which, we hope, will improve the situation with medical staff in our region. In previous governments, it was impossible to create this department. Thank you very much. [[It was possible. The voivodship government gave it up. When were the jobs started?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The pseudoreform of the hospital network, the dramatic absence of doctors, the struggle for degrees of reference, which really doesn't work, hospitals that buy doctors from specialists, because it depends on whether there will be troops, e.g. infectious, neurosurgery or cardiology, and whether the hospital will survive, for example. in the third degree of reference - this is an image of a terrible threat, a situation in health care. Last bill. Depending on their commitment to work only in one centre, the increase of doctors to the level of PLN 6750 gross has led to the fact that these doctors are even less. Hence the question about the effectiveness of the law, but also about the number of requests for dismissal of doctors as a rule working in one centre and whether such requests are being considered positively. What's the point of continuing with legal solutions that, in a network of hospitals and here, don't work? Minister! Etat or contract? Please tell the Poles: Is a contract doctor a better doctor, or is a regular doctor a better doctor? Are contracts a chance for a doctor to work more and more effectively? What is the Ministry going to do to make sure that these specialists, the specialists, have more? Is there any program, or do we agree to allow doctors, as they have so far, to go abroad? Doctors often prefer to work in POZs, move to private practices, do not want to work in hospitals. And now, here we are in hospitals, in a wedge like this, because let's imagine that the hospital is losing a specialist, losing a unit. He loses his contract right away. And if he wants another specialist from the market next year, he won't be able to do it anymore, because he'll run out of money, because contracts are made for those of the previous year. Minister! The second question is completely different. Although I wanted to ask you, how many hospitals do you know are in danger of closing down? Because that's what's going on. And from another barrel: hospitals aren't VAT. Is that the right thing to do? How much do they lose when they can't write back their VAT? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u158	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since 1 January 2019 we have seen an increase in the standard of employment of nurses and midwives, we have observed - and well - an increase in the salary of nurses, but we do not see an increase in the funds allocated to the allowance, to ensure better availability of medical services. Minister! I would like to ask you to what extent hospitalisation is concerned and where the availability of medical services will be reduced. What about the next professional groups employed in hospitals? In addition to doctors, nurses and midwives, there is a job for radiology and laboratory technicians. We are also dealing with non-medical staff: maintenance, IT, but also with engineers, ending up with very much needed in hospitals, as in every workplace, cleaning staff. When are you going to raise the wage for these groups as well? I would like to ask if you changed the valuation of health benefits due to the increase in salary, because it depends on how much money is spent, what resources the director of a given hospital may have. In 2017, you changed the hospital grid. Today we're talking about the fact that county hospitals can't do it themselves, no matter who runs them, and great professionals do. There's no money today, and you're still talking about how you support health care. To what extent are you going to help county hospitals as well? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u160	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Since the beginning of my term of office, I have received many times in my office both patients and health professionals. I do not need any of you to convince me how important it is to protect the health of our citizens in society. I have reported these problems many times from the Parliamentary Speaker, and I have directly involved the Minister. The Minister took note of the issue of hospitals in my district of Płocko-ciechanowski. Minister! What has the Ministry of Health done to increase the number of doctors in my district, as well as on a national scale, and what has been done to increase the number of students in medical fields? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u161	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u162	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister said, among others, major improvement with regard to cataract treatment. This improvement by increasing measures is probably something, but what has been introduced makes cataract treatment very difficult. It's a procedure that can be performed as part of extra-basic, extra-standard care, such as implanting a lens that doesn't require wearing glasses. So far, without major problems, many people have benefited from this type of procedure in cross-border healthcare. At the moment, serious formal restrictions have been introduced and this may be the right direction. The condition is that Polish private medical institutions should also be able to operate on the same principle as it has been done abroad, in the Czech Republic or in Germany, i.e. the refund is granted within the framework of the basic procedure, within a limit of 2 000. zł - if someone wants to have a better lens, a multifocal lens, then they should be able to pay with their own money, as is the case in the Czech Republic. If I'm leaving for surgery, for example. Brno, this I can pay and have a transplant of a lens that doesn't require glasses. In my opinion, this is an action that actually hinders the development of Polish private institutions. I know these are regulations that need to be amended. It seems that it is high time to think about the fact that Polish specialists need to be given a better chance than foreign ones in the Czech Republic or Germany. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask whether the Ministry takes into account the improvement of efficiency in the care of society's health by increasing the resources allocated to prevention. I would also like to draw attention to the need to include contacts with the patient in the education of future doctors. Unfortunately, these skills are not common. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Margaret Janyska. There is no Member. Mrs Teresa Glenc. There is no Member. Mrs Margaret Navel. There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government promised Poles in the election campaign still in July Ub. R. that healthcare will be a priority. Now we see what your priority is. Evaluations of medical procedures despite increased costs have not been increased since 2015. Since 1 January this year, you have introduced new, excessive nursing standards, which result in the liquidation of beds - the hospital cannot afford additional employment for new nursing staff. I'm not talking about the fact that you don't realize that there's a shortage of nursing staff in the local labour market. You guys aren't doing anything about it. Minister! There is a lack of dedicated funding for the statutory implementation by you imposed wage increases. You have also left the matter of minimum wage growth entirely without funding. District Hospital in Żywiec, the only facility operating in the county, which has 153 thousand. residents and provides care for 50,000. tourists in tourist traffic all year round, operating in the so-called mode. acute, 24 hours a day throughout the year, after the implementation of this unfortunate system reform in health care, so-called. the networks of hospitals that are a drawback of the current system are underfunded. It is not expected to pay to county hospitals for overperformances, i.e. unplanned benefits implemented in an emergency mode. The hospital makes much more admissions, over the fixed lump sum. Who's gonna pay for this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you familiar with hospital debt? There is a lack of thoughtful changes, and patient health safety is dramatically decreasing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka. There is no Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u168	Minister! You are talking about an increase in expenditure, about 20 billion, on the health system in Poland. We would expect this jumping growth to be accompanied by a jumping improvement in the situation of the system. We're not seeing anything like that, but we're looking at some elements where things have improved. So here we have a fundamental contradiction that needs to be clarified to the public. Against this background, the first question. What really resulted from the reform of the hospital network? Here I would expect a specific answer, rather in writing, because it would probably be a longer paper, but I have the impression that it was rather a tea mixing procedure, from which it was supposed to be sweeter. And I don't think it is. Another thing, your communication problems. You're introducing minimum standards of employment for nurses, not knowing that the side effect is that beds start disappearing. And here again the public must have a clear answer, how much disappears from the register, that is from the paper list, paper beds, and how much disappears really - really, because they were simply eliminated. This idea of eliminating beds requires discussion and sorting into what disappears from the voivodeship register, because they weren't, because it was oversized, and those that were actually amputated and aren't in hospitals. The last question that I wanted to raise is the matter of an algorithm for the calculation of funds in the Opole Voivodship. The region estimates an underestimation of about PLN 100 million due to several elements, i.e., firstly, demographic issues, secondly, high-specialist benefits, which are not available, so it does not receive money for it, but at the same time people go to treatment, so money flows out with them, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And, it's another case, because of unregistered children, which is such a specialty of Opole. I would like to ask for a substantive discussion and discussions with the Opolskie Voivodship on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Oldakowski. There's no envoy. Mrs Bożena Kamińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think everyone's complaining about medical care in our country. This group includes doctors and patients, as well as health care managers themselves. We heard here three years ago that the line to the specialists will definitely be shortened. Meanwhile, the facts tell a completely different story - queues are getting longer, and patients who want to get in, for example. to a specialist such as an orthopedic surgeon for surgery, are already saved for 2024 or later. I have a question for the Minister here. How do you want to reduce queues to specialists that are getting longer and longer, and do you have a comprehensive strategy for not expecting people to expect? After a few years in line for these specialists, when they need help right away? Another very important topic, of course, is the issue of cancer patients. The Polish Oncology Society together with other NGOs, including patients, has developed a strategy for fighting cancer in Poland 2015-2024. Has it been implemented, Minister? If so, at what stage is the strategy being implemented today? I would very much ask you to answer that question in writing. Because we see the experience of neighbouring countries, i.e. The Czech Republic and Germany, or Norway, France, and we see that success in treating cancer provides an action plan for years, which is consistently implemented. Do we have such a plan, and do we consistently implement it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It should take care of good health prevention from an early age, and according to the studies carried out, the youngest, i.e. pupils and young people, have a considerable need for dental care. I would therefore like to ask how the Ministry intends to better address the problem of the many-year negligence of its predecessors in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik. There's no envoy. Mr Michael Szczerba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday, in silence, we voted on the amendments to the State budget for 2019. It is worth asking in this debate what members of the governing party rejected yesterday. Yesterday, we voted on the request of a minority of PLN 148.10 million for the health policy programme, the National Alzheimer's Programme. There's a saying: three times a charm. Yesterday, for the third time, my amendment was rejected. Unfortunately, the government does not see the problems of this group of patients, people with dementia, including Alzheimer's disease. You have instruments, you have a public health bill, you can create a health policy program. This year... there's no gold in this 2019 budget. I would like to remind you of the results of the 2017 Supreme Audit Chamber report: In the framework of the universal healthcare system, no tools have been created to solve the problems of people with Alzheimer's disease and their families effectively and effectively. We know that. What do we do? Nothing. These are also our international obligations. The World Health Organisation has committed all its Member States to preparing programmes to combat dementia, with dementia. At what stage, Minister, are we? Are you aware, and is the government aware that the healthcare system is not prepared for this group of patients? Four of the five patients and members of their families believe that they are left to themselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It can't be like this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u176	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I apologize for the example, but because of what I do professionally, I deal with veterinarians. As for the treatment of animals, a large population of animals, everything is OK at the moment. However, what I meet in my district, the small district where it is recently built, because four years ago, the hospital... I'm thinking about one thing. The Constitutional Minister is a person who should know almost everything. If she gives orders, she should check what the reactions are, how it affects those to whom these decisions are to be made. Hospital's not a factory, it's not a tape: tempo, tempo, tempo. We're human. The county hospital in Międzychod had 160 beds. As a result of your decision, the conversions, the new standards, 60 needs to be put down. There's no other way to do this. We need 25 nursing jobs, 14 midwives. The drama is amazing in our environment. The county's supreme authority, the hospital director and doctors are ripping their hair off, that there aren't 40 nurses in our community, because there's trouble at all as far as that goes. How do they ensure health safety in our region? These are the main concerns. Are these some kind of nightmares we're falling off again? Not only do we fall into some kind of trap, let's call it a math conversion, it's what we hear here in the courtroom today - about doctors, 2 hours minus when it comes to e-recepts... Minister, that means you as chief aren't checking up on your decisions. Me, running the bet... It is necessary to issue a command and check how it works, order corrections. And today - unnecessary tension, [[♪ The bell ♪]] unnecessary nerves, loss of money, lack of efficiency. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u177	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr John Łopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u178	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Thank you very much for this discussion that we have had, quite calmly, and since it is very necessary, I don't think anyone needs to be persuaded. Minister! Many of your time and place have been devoted to financial issues, proving that the funds are increasing. There was a drop in the amount that in a few years it was 20 billion. I didn't question it, I didn't deny it. The amount of resources in the coming years - who knows, knows - is increasing and this is the result of a mechanism related to the number of employees employed, the wages of workers who pay contributions. Average wages and minimum salaries are increasing and therefore the income of the national fund and the amounts you mentioned here are also increasing. I'm sure it is. But let's take a look at the state of the hospital debt. Does this increase in revenue mean that the pace of hospital debt is decreasing? Unfortunately, it doesn't seem that way. And if you could ask for such statistics - probably not now - I would ask very much. And I'd like to quote you, ma'am. The National Association of Employers of District Hospitals - probably this letter opened to the Ministry of Health - wrote: The county hospitals stood against the wall. We can't allow this much debt to go on in hospitals. We are so concerned that some regulations may even lead to the closure of certain hospitals, the smaller ones, the district ones, without providing adequate security for these benefits in the county. A necessary increase in the level of valuation of benefits of 15% shall be indicated. It's the practitioners who say it, I'm just quoting it. Please refer to it. And as for the number of beds - that's my main question, the sense of this current information - I have to admit with regret that you have a bit of this problem, I'm sorry, you ignored it, and I'm sure she underestimated it, saying that it's an organizational process. With all due respect, you don't see the connection between the regulation, these standards and the applications made to the voivodships, hospital directors. That's kind of weird. I will also quote here the practice, the president of the Association of County Hospitals of Silesian Voivodeship, which says this: Health service It's not nail production. Patients are not affected by the ministry's dictation. Once they're in ward 30, once they're in ward 30. Depends, among other things. Since the season. It's hard to predict a bet, because more than half of the sick get to us as part of a sharp party. And he adds that optimal use due to sanitary standards is about 80% Which means the bed is always occupied. They need to be washed, disinfected. The average patient stay is 5 days. So many practices. But even looking through the statistics you cited here, you were saying, if I'm right, 11%. Placements out there, but the average is 68%. - I say again, if I have heard correctly - so if this average is 68%, then at the percentages given in some branches it must be more than 100%. It's just statistics and logic. You realize, after all, that the proposals made by the directors of hospitals to voivodeships will not refer to this regulation, to standards. They recall this key - the expression "overlaying." Is that, therefore, the question - controlled and how it is done? And I'm going to repeat this question at the beginning, probably the most important question: What are hospital directors going to do, whether to provide the necessary space for patients, or not to follow the rules of law, because that's what this is all about? Once again, thank you very much for taking up the subject and discussing it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u179	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u180	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I very much thank you for this discussion, a very important discussion, because it will also allow us to present the facts, the reality, because there have been some inconsistencies in many of your statements - and I would not want to say this more - which could bother our society unnecessarily, as it is not exactly as you put it in the light of certain facts. For starters, I would like to stress that our society can feel safe. The Minister of Health shall monitor all processes that take place in the health system. It has up-to-date information on the database, on the number of staff, and the number of procedures provided, and is taking corrective action on an ongoing basis if there are situations that could lead to a security risk for our residents. In addition, systemic solutions are being undertaken, which are expected to improve health care in Poland in a further or closer perspective. These topics that you have addressed are focused on a number of practical problems, and have repeated many times in your speeches, and I will therefore refer not to specific statements by Members, but to specific areas, what you have raised in your statements. The first point is the lack of staff. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Health in 2015 immediately following an analysis of the demographic situation in medical staff, he took concrete action. First of all, we've increased the number of places in the medical department by 20%. In the wake of this, there was a certain amount of money for the medical school. Between 2014 and 2018, nine new departments were established, where doctors were trained. The number of doctors employed in the Polish health care system is increasing. In 2014 we had over 151 thousand in Poland. Doctors working in health care, now we have 172,000. These are specific figures that indicate that the employment rate of doctors in our country is improving. We're increasing the number of residences. At present, on average, about 6 000 per year. graduates get the opportunity to study in residential mode, and today we educate more than 18 thousand. residents in this mode. We increase the number of residences, and we also allocate additional funds to the training of residents. The same applies to another medical profession, namely nurses and midwives. Between 2014 and 2018, the number of places where nurses are trained was increased from 72 universities to 93. The number of places in these universities is increasing. We also finance additional places at these universities from the state budget. In addition, EU funds are being used to make training in the nursing and midwives more attractive. We use more than PLN 300 million, first of all, to provide the so-called. Medical simulation centres, which will increase the attractiveness of education and the quality of education, but on the other hand, we allocate funds to scholarships during both pre- and post-graduate training. These are specific money that is spent on educational processes. The same applies to other medical professions. So that the government sees a demographic problem when it comes to medical, nursing and other medical professions, and reacts immediately by taking concrete action in this area. Another issue that has been raised in many of your speeches is, of course, the financial resources being allocated. I'm not gonna tell you again. There is a clear, clear increase in expenditure, and it is expenditure from the state budget, which has not been done so far. For the first time in history, the current government has made such a decision that it supplies resources in the NFZ from the state budget, and, as I told you, in 2017 it was PLN 1 billion, now it is 1.8 billion. It's about the money that was spent on raising salaries. Safety issue related to changes in the number of beds in hospitals. You asked about the general principles, the general view of the case, the overall assessment of the situation, and you gave concrete examples. Here examples from Opole Voivodeship were repeated. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need to bend over the resources in health care again. We know very well that demographic changes are taking place, not only related to age, but also to the migration of the population. The voivodship of Opolskie is a voivodship where this change is unfavourable. In the last several years or several years, the number of people in Opole Voivodeship has decreased by 100,000, and the number of beds that was 10 and 15 years ago is the same. So, ladies and gentlemen, given the demographic changes, the change in medical technology, the change in patient treatment... A few years ago, patients with a heart attack were in the hospital for a few weeks, now it's a few days. Due to technological advances, new treatments are changing the treatment process. The bed doesn't heal, especially the empty bed doesn't heal. Empty bed is a cost, because there are other cost components associated with it, which make the financial situation of the medicinal product worse. Adjusting the number of beds to the needs is the role of the director of the hospital and the building body, which is to manage this area optimally, to monitor, because this is the way the Local Government Act is, and to decide that the potential that exists in a given local government area will meet the needs. I gave examples of the use of beds, not to satisfy myself and the listeners, just to make you aware that we have the potential that is untapped, and that these funds can be deployed. Mrs Radziszewska mentioned the need to change the profile of beds, dedicating this expectation to the health minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the formation bodies and hospital directors who decide on the bed profile. So if we have too many spicy beds, and we need long-term care beds, then this decision is on the side of the medicinal user and the body that creates it. Here we are really hoping for cooperation in this area with local authorities, with hospital directors, that these changes will be adapted to the current social needs. As far as medicines are concerned - you asked about the state's drug policy, you pointed out that the availability of medicines is limited. That is not true. Ladies and gentlemen, every year we spend more and more on new drug programs. We're financing these new active substances. Not so long ago, a few years ago, we financed 73 active substances, now we have 132 active substances, which are financed for different types, types of diseases, including oncology. We refund modern treatments, modern therapies for lung cancer, kidney cancer. There are many other examples. Of course, if you wish, I will prepare specific data, concrete statistics. They talk about increasing resources, spending on modern therapies, including oncology, but also therapies for rare diseases. The last case was the decision of the Minister of Health to fund the treatment of children with a blackout... with the SMA. These are the concrete reactions of the Minister of Health to improve the availability of modern treatments. You've been paying attention to the burden on doctors of administration. One of your fellow Members mentioned that we had announced the inclusion of administrative staff in the system, and asked when it would be. That's it, sir. There's no envoy. It's already there. Since 1 January, a regulation has been in place which requires the hospital director to employ an administrative staff member who will support both doctors and nurses in administrative processes. But on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, there's never been a ban and the director could hire. The Director should examine himself whether it is more cost-effective for him to perform administrative activities by a doctor than by an assistant or secretary. That's the decision the director should have made earlier. But Minister Szumowski, listening [[♪ The bell ♪]] in social expectations, it has decided to prepare such a regulation. And then there was the question of drug exports. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, we have amended the rules three times, in March, May and June, which are to drastically reduce drug exports. We've introduced criminal liability for misdirection of drugs. We indicated the need for a clear separation of the medicinal product from the pharmacy or the distributor or the wholesaler. We have also introduced the possibility to control transport, including medicinal products, i.e. the National Tax Administration will be directly involved in this analysis. We hope that this activity, which has worked very well over the last few years, will be limited. There was a question about basic health care. Ladies and gentlemen, an analysis of the National Health Fund shows that on average to one family doctor in Poland is recorded 1 thousand. patients. There is no legal standard that would prevent doctors from taking care of more patients than 2.5,000. persons. I am therefore a little surprised by the question which one of the messengers asked here. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a question of queues. I've discussed this a few times. Of course, we are not entirely satisfied that we have failed to clearly reduce queues, but the important thing is that we have already slowed down the increase in waiting for admission to the hospital. At the moment the queues are not extending, and in many areas we have a reduction, among others. in those areas I was talking about: endoproteses, cataracts. He asked why this type of treatment was abolished or limited abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the patient's well-being. Such treatments were performed abroad, the patient returned to Poland on the same day, did not have guaranteed care, post-hospital control, and in case of complications was treated in the Polish health care system. Therefore, the Minister of Health and the President of the National Health Fund decided to increase the availability of such treatments in the territory of the Republic of Poland in order to comprehensively take care of our patients. [[What about wages?]] As far as cataracts are concerned, they are paid. The Member asked about the salary. [[Other professional groups.]] Mrs. Member! You know very well that the funds for wages - I repeat again - have been transferred. They've been handed over to the nurses, and we've got signals that even with the surplus, medical fees have been paid, while for medical rescuers the funds are transferred separately, according to the list... [[Other groups.]] ...presented by the directors of medicinal entities. On the other hand, the Act on Minimum Compensation requires the Director of the medicinal entity to carry out a systematic increase in basic salary and it is not true that there is no increase in salaries, because the Act says...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u181	Minister, you're going to have to go slowly. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Now. ...that this year should be 20% The missing amount... [[Of course it is.]] ...between current and future salaries. On the other hand, Commissioner, in the impact assessment of the regulation - you voted on this law, you know this document - we have indicated that 16 billion PLN has been passed on as a follow-up to this law. The valuation of the point has been increased and it is not true that it has not been increased since 2015, because in 2017, before the introduction of the hospital network, the valuation of the point was increased by 4%. and medicinal products received these amounts. Ladies and gentlemen! The remaining questions will be answered in writing. However, I would like to thank you very warmly for this substantive discussion and to reassure all Poles. The changes that are taking place are taking care of the state, about availability, about the quality of the services provided, because the quality is also the amount of staff that takes care of the state in the hospital, because the right... Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: ...the number of nurses is less... Minister, thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: ...accidents, fewer infections, fewer adverse events. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This statement concludes the examination of this... [[But you didn't answer the question.]] No more yelling. You're welcome. [[Voice from the O.R.: This is in writing, please.]] This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development (prints No 3085 and 3122). I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I present the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development concerning the government draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, print No 3085. The proposed amendment aims to update the functioning of the Agency. It is the result of a few years of review of the functioning of the current provisions of the Act. Another important aspect The amendment is to adapt to the changes in the economy and to the definition of changes in European law. The most important changes concern the Agency's scope of activity, the scope of its tasks, but also institutional and adaptation changes. The Agency's tasks on the subject of activity can be further clarified in order to avoid any question of interpretation, so that the law speaks directly about the fulfilment of the tasks of the State, strengthening the powers of the Agency in terms of better and more effective verification of beneficiaries of financial assistance, in order to effectively protect itself from unfair actions leading to extortion of aid measures, and then introducing a new form of aid in the form of awards, particularly in the area of all kinds of innovation. There are also changes in the recruitment procedure in order to widen the number of applicants for employment in the Agency. An important change is also the proposal to liquidate the Supervisory Board, whose main responsibilities are taken over by the Minister responsible for the economy. There are, of course, other changes, more minor, adaptable and law-ordering in terms of European definitions. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development at its meeting on 10 January this year. carried out the first reading and examined the draft law in detail. On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I propose the adoption of a proposed bill amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development in accordance with the submitted report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u183	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present on behalf of the club Law and Justice a position on the government draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, print No 3085. The Polish Agency for Enterprise Development is an entity involved in the process of acquisition and distribution, among others. appropriations from the Structural Funds. Within the framework of the programmes entrusted to the PARP, the Agency may provide any kind of assistance to entrepreneurs, i.e. financial, consulting, training, information. Support provided by the Agency is aimed at, among others, promoting the development of the company, increasing innovation and competitiveness, export development and the adaptability of entrepreneurs. The Agency is also a co-organizer of projects implemented at central, regional, local level as well as a partner or participant of the event. Such projects may support substantively and organisationally. An example of this type of events is the European Congress of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, the Economic Forum in Krynica, Congress 590 or organized jointly with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology a nationwide cycle of conferences - the right to entrepreneurship - small companies, major changes, where all the positive changes recently introduced in the interest of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector were discussed to a large extent directly in the field. In order to carry out these activities even more effectively and to support entrepreneurs in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, after many years of functioning of the law governing the operation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, the government decided to present an amendment to the existing legislation. The proposed amendments to the Act are mainly due to the need to adapt the provisions to the new rules laid down in European rules for the institutions involved in the implementation of operational programmes, as well as to the tasks imposed during the new financing period of the European Union. Other changes include changes that order, clarify and improve the functioning of the Agency itself. They can be systematically divided into four further groups concerning the Agency's activities, the scope of the Agency's tasks, institutional changes, adaptation. In particular, in the current perspective, PARP is responsible for designing and launching pilot forms of support for companies. Launching competitions with prizes is one of the innovative forms of engaging entrepreneurs and business environment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 in paragraph 2. 5 The possibility of establishing and awarding prizes in kind and in cash in competitions carried out by the Agency is envisaged. Other important changes proposed include clarification of the Agency's tasks on the subject of activity, strengthening the Agency's competences and powers with a view to better and effective verification of beneficiaries of financial support. Such action will minimise the likelihood of irregularities in the use of aid. Another element is the liquidation of the PARP Supervisory Board - the agency is a supervised and subordinate minister responsible for the economy - as well as a reduction in the maximum number of alternate directors of the Agency. The Law and Justice Club takes the view that the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development is an important element in the implementation of the Sustainable Development Programme. It is an institution that specifically supports small and medium-sized enterprises. The amendment of the law will have a positive effect on this sector of the economy. Entrepreneurs will have access to new instruments, which will increase investment opportunities in innovation development and the implementation of new technologies. The Law and Justice Club therefore fully supports the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u185	Thank you very much. Ms Magdalena Ewa Marek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I wanted to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. The Polish Agency for Enterprise Development is responsible for implementing economic development programmes supporting innovative and research activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, regional development, export growth, human resources development and the use of new technologies in business. The Act regulating the functioning of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development was established in 2000. It has been amended several times during the revision of other laws. These were minor and comprehensive changes, while such a major change took place in 2010. Given that the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development is an institution involved in national and international financial projects from the Structural Funds and from the European Commission's multiannual programmes, it is very important to adapt national rules to EU regulations. One of the groups of changes proposed in this amendment concerns definitions, e.g. micro-entrepreneurs or small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also adapted to Regulation 651/2014 of 17 June 2014, which states that certain types of aid are compatible with the internal market. The amendment also proposes to strengthen and extend the PARP rights. This is about the possibility for operators who benefit from the assistance of the agencies to put an end to the various abuses. This is a new instrument. If the Agency is informed that the entity concerned has criminal or criminal proceedings, it may withdraw from the aid provided for the entity concerned, it shall receive such an additional instrument. PARP also receives new competences in terms of what is kind of the essence of the institution, i.e. in terms of supporting entrepreneurs. The main new instrument is the possibility to award prizes in competitions for a particular achievement or overall activity in the field of popularization of innovative solutions in the farm and society, taking up, developing initiatives to stimulate cooperation between entrepreneurs, scientific units and public administration, developing and popularizing green solutions in the economy, promoting Polish enterprises abroad, promoting pro-innovative institutions in the business environment, investing by employers in the development of employees. This is possible by adapting the provisions to the Regulation of the European Commission and of the Council of 17 June 2017. Another group of changes that are foreseen in this amendment are changes of institutional nature. The aim is to reduce the number of alternate presidents of the agency from five to three and to liquidate the supervisory board. And at this very moment I would like to present to the marshal a proposal for amendments tabled by the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, which are primarily aimed at restoring the supervisory authority, because in a democratic state of law it is necessary to maintain control of the authority by the body appointed for it, in which of course there are persons who represent the owner, i.e. the Treasury, persons who represent employers and nationwide business associations, and persons who represent the local government. In this case, we believe that the lack of supervisory board and those representing these institutions is a contradiction of the idea of self-government and economic freedom. It is difficult to agree that the Constitutional Minister, who has a lot of responsibilities, would assume all the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board, which are broadly described in the Act, for example. the opinion of the draft annual action plans, the periodic evaluation of the implementation of the annual plans, the analysis of the effectiveness of the activities undertaken by the Agency, the evaluation of the activity reports, the selection of the statutory auditor and other issues which are foreseen and commissioned by the Act. It is difficult for the Agency, the President, the Management Board, to have no control over this or supervision in a democratic country, so we have prepared a proposal for amendments that we are proposing at second reading. Further amendments concern the idea of entrepreneurship. We believe that the task of supporting entrepreneurship by the agency is very important, and we therefore propose to return to the record, which is in the existing entrepreneurship law, to support entrepreneurs, in particular micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and to those who intend to undertake business activities. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make some adjustments. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u187	Thank you, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, made a statement in writing. Mr Grabowski is not here. Mr Meysztowicz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the opinion of the club Modern about the government draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, print no 3085. We didn't have a lot of reservations about this project in committee. I think it is a good thing that we are amending the rules, because this will cause that in the next perspective, we will be able to use to the end all the resources that have been earmarked for this purpose for the operational programmes for the period 2014-2020. A change in the structure of the Agency may help to implement these plans. The rules laid down in European legislation for the institutions involved in the implementation of operational programmes are also being amended. It is indeed good to keep up-to-date and improve those provisions which are not entirely in line with these suggestions for the European Union. These changes and adjustments to the new tasks imposed by the Agency during the new funding period and the functions to be performed by the PARP in the future... Indeed, this agency has a chance to significantly contribute to the increase of participation, which is still large, small and medium-sized enterprises in the development of the Polish economy. We should do everything we can to make it easier for these entrepreneurs to operate not only by changing the rules and making it easier for them to act, but also with regard to the financial resources and, to a large extent, financial resources that can be allocated to these entities in the future. We also welcome the fact that the organizational structure is changing, that a large number of vice presidents are being removed, that the supervisory board is being deleted, because this institution can act much more efficiently in our assessment. As the proposals put forward by the Ministry did not raise any special controversy with us, the Modern Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to join the list, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This law will certainly strengthen the powers and powers of the Agency through the verification of those who are seeking assistance. Surely there are attempts to use PARP funds illegally. The current rules have not always been a protection against unfair actions. Does the Ministry have information, data on the quantity and possible extent of such unauthorised activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about the board of directors. Presenting the position of the club, the representative of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition presented amendments to the withdrawal from the liquidation of the Supervisory Board. So I have a question: What is it like in other executive agencies? Is it standard that there's a board of directors? Alternatively, if we accept this solution, that the Supervisory Board will be abolished, what savings can this bring in this case? We know - salaries, accommodation costs, other costs related to the functioning of the board. Has the Ministry determined what the savings will be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for you about this supervisory board. Supervisory boards in different institutions cannot be measured by one measure. It's not like with an entity in commercial law, where we have given general structures and then it adapts in detail. This is a special agency. This is an agency to support entrepreneurship in various aspects: development, innovation, the labour market, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, this has already sounded a few times out of this podium. It is precisely this aspect of promoting entrepreneurship. You can support entrepreneurship, its development, entrepreneurs when you work with them. And the supervisory board is about to carry out, and so far it has carried out, tasks that are related to it. Where should we draw information about these tasks, but not from those who are also addressed and inspired - they should be an inspiration - some changes? In the Supervisory Board, ladies and gentlemen, there were not only entrepreneurs. There were also representatives of other professions: non-membered, non-represented, non-membered in the Social Dialogue Council. There were also local authorities, which is very important, because regional development concerns local authorities, it concerns regions. I am afraid that this will be a further stage in centralising economic governance, i.e. deciding everything on its own, because unfortunately this has occurred in many laws already in this term. I'm very afraid that again [[♪ The bell ♪]] The whole business environment will be eliminated from this important aspect. I ask you to consider this. Unfortunately, I can't stay any longer, Minister. I'm gonna get your answer, but I have a committee hearing, and I have to get out of here, and I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u195	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u196	Minister! The 12th item of today's agenda will discuss the proposal for the creation of the Łukasiewicz Research Network. This law provides for the amendment of the PARP Act in such a way that the PARP will be subject to the obligation to support research institutions. Here is a specific question: With what tools, which instruments would this support of research institutions, such as the Łukasiewicz Research Network, be carried out, since this support looks like such bunk support, supporting one by one? Research institutes are supposed to support entrepreneurship with their research, while PARP would support it so that they can study it. Please tell us with which tools it would be implemented. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u197	Please, Mrs Margaret Navel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law proposes the liquidation of the supervisory board on the pretext of obtaining savings. You're saying that strategic decisions are taken by the Minister anyway. So I ask: Who will be the supervisory authority and what will the transparency of economic life look like? Lack of transparency and unclear criteria are incomprehensible to me and they remind me ill. I see clearly here - and I am surprised - that you do not want representatives of local governments and employers in the supervisory body, as it is now. I'm asking for a reason. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! So far, PARP has also implemented some of the programmes within the framework of INTERREG. These actions are expected to continue. Question to the Minister: Will this be at the same level, will PARP's participation in the implementation of the INTERREG cooperation programmes increase? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u201	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Mariusz Haladyj.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, As I can see, mostly the board of directors here... At the same time, I expected a counterproductive effect rather than criticizing us just for eliminating the supervisory board and changing the size of the agency's board. But first things first. As far as irregularities are concerned, at the moment around 70 criminal proceedings are taking place in connection with various types of attempts to extort public funds in the Agency's programmes. And this change, which is proposed here, is going in this direction, so that the PARP simply has instruments to respond more quickly to these types of entities, which, I say, already have their past and problems, so euphemistically speaking, with accounting for individual programmes and measures. And the question was about scale, so now it's about 70. Mr Gawron asked about other agencies and the operation of the supervisory board plus costs. Of the nine agencies of the same type as PARP, only PARP and the Military Property Agency have supervisory boards, seven other such supervisory boards do not exist. The annual cost of operating the Supervisory Board is about PLN 0.5 million. This issue of the supervisory board also followed with Mrs Janyska and Mrs Płępek. I didn't really understand what was going on with these vague criteria. There is no Member. I do not know what these unclear criteria would refer to, because we simply propose to resign from the supervisory board at all, and so there will be no supervisory board, and therefore there will be no criteria for appointing members of supervisory boards. Maybe I just didn't keep up with the point of the question. I am not very able to refer these criteria to a specific proposal for a law. The Member said that we are restricting cooperation with entrepreneurs, with the local government. We're not restricting it. The control of the social partners will remain in the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, because a much greater degree of detail as regards the control of the functioning of the agencies in individual programmes, in particular procedures, gives participation in monitoring committees, where the fate of individual tranches and funds actually decides. That is where the social partners are guaranteed. The board of directors... Moreover, the rightness of us to take this step also proves that we have consulted this draft law and with the Council of Social Dialogue and with business organisations, and with the Joint Committee of Government and Territorial Self-Government. None of these authorities submitted any comments to leave the supervisory board at the PARP. So here the transparency of economic life, as it was raining, will not suffer either, because, as I said, the control of the social partners is preserved where the fate of the various measures actually decides. Mr Wilczyński asked about the Łukasiewicz network and cooperation with research institutes, I understand. [[Support, that's what we're talking about.]] Support. This is not quite the subject of this amendment, so I am sorry if it is such a laconic response, but these instruments are above all: of course financial support and already specific instruments which are in the framework of the programmes that the PARP is running, that is also supporting competent entrepreneurs, and such programmes are also being launched, for example, I do not know, a quick response instrument where we help entrepreneurs capture these first signals regarding the risk of liquidity deterioration, which may result in, for example. the need to declare bankruptcy. [[It is about how to support research institutions.]] For example, the competitions that we are expecting here are also such a tool or participation as partners in international projects that the PARP organises. And Mr Meysztowicz asked about the INTERREG programmes. This is a matter of first and foremost a new perspective, and especially how much will be negotiated within this perspective, but we are assuming at this point that this support in this area is going to increase, which is going to be bigger than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd just like to commend the Ministry, because it's really a well-prepared amendment. And during this work, entrepreneurs also contacted me. However, here is a request to PARP that these funds that are earmarked for funding, for certain programs, are not just completely, strictly linked to innovation, but also so that there is a pool of funds that entrepreneurs could allocate e.g. for the replacement of a machine park, let's say, for more modern devices, so that programs are also such as these when it comes to these measures. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u205	Thank you, too. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u206	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club PSL-UED, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. The project introduces significant changes to the functioning of the PARP, among others. the addition of the PARP's statutory tasks and the way in which they are implemented in view of the objectives of the operational programmes of the current financial perspective 2014/2020, e.g. as regards the implementation of financial instruments, the possibility of granting financial assistance in the form of prizes, the possibility of implementing development cooperation activities in agreement with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology and the involvement of the agencies in international programmes has been confirmed and the possibility of carrying out tasks under joint venture agreements concluded with other entities has been confirmed. In addition, the liquidation of the supervisory board was proposed as regards changes in the supervisory system of the PARP. Of the nine current executive agencies, PARP is the only one in which the Supervisory Board operates outside the Military Property Agency. Other up-to-date supervisory mechanisms, such as supervision of EU spending by IZ or IP or approval of programming and reporting documents by the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. economy, allow for effective supervision of the agency. The PSL-UED Club will present its position in the voting block.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u207	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 27 hours 13 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws (prints 3117 and 3131). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u208	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! It is my great honor to present to you on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on Draft Print Act 3117. Yesterday at the committee meeting, we were discussing this bill. The general statements at the committee meeting were that this law was very necessary. This is an facilitation for farmers foreseen for the following year. We have introduced e-applications and the idea is for farmers to have a longer transition period than a year to be able to fill out statements. Just like last year. This is a great ease for farmers. The idea is for farmers to benefit from applications in paper form for the next year. We know that some farmers find it difficult to get used to e-applications, and that is why the government and the agricultural ministry meet the expectations of farmers. We want to make it easier for farmers to complete these proposals more easily for this year and for this transitional period to be longer. Of course, as I said, the law is good, expected by farmers, makes it easier for them and therefore all the clubs at the committee meeting supported it. I hope that today, too, at the Parliament's meeting, they will support it, and we will implement this law quickly. As it has already been said, in the case of these important laws that make life easier for the Polish farmer, there was no major controversy here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u209	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the government draft law amending the Act amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws contained in print 3117. The amendment of the Act of 10 January 2018 amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other acts aims at simplifying the process of submitting aid applications under area aid schemes and applications for payment under area support in electronic form. The draft law provides for the possibility to submit a statement in 2019, instead of an application for payment, in which the farmer will confirm that there are no changes compared to the previous year's application. Land surface data will be transferred from declarations to the IT system by the staff of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. In line with the European Commission's view, such transfer of data by an authority is considered to fulfil the obligation to cover a given area with a geospatial form. The next amendment extends the scope of the obligation imposed on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture to send partially completed applications in paper form to farmers, together with graphic materials, to all farmers who submitted applications for payment in the previous year and not only those who did so in paper form. This will take into account corrections and changes that may have occurred on the holding during the year. The changes made are beneficial to farmers, will reduce time to settle the matter and will provide them with access to the explanatory material useful for the correct submission of the application by electronic means. This is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition will support the government draft law from Seym Printing 3117 because of its urgency, as from 15 February farmers have been required to submit appropriate applications, documents on direct payments to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. There was a discussion at the Committee on Agriculture yesterday, but I would like to ask the Minister to comment on two issues. Firstly, the information provided shows that for 2018 the European Commission recommended that 25% applications across the European Union farmers submitted in electronic form - Poland did this in 10% - whereas 75% is assumed to be expected in 2019 applications are to be submitted electronically. Well, the Minister said that about 900,000. the holdings will receive personalized applications, including a graphical annex, sent by post and that 400 000. holdings will have the possibility to submit applications in the form of a declaration. I would like the Minister to refer to this because, on the one hand, we are talking about a very good result in submitting proposals by electronic means, and on the other hand, we are coming back to the paper form as if it had already been done. What is the point? The second case concerns holdings which receive payments under the LFA, i.e. areas with unfavourable conditions for agricultural production. I'd like to know what scale it's going to be, how many of these farms on this program are going to fit in according to the new procedure. I would also like to ask the Minister to present the regional structure of these farms, so how their numbers are shaped in different regions, how many farms in Pomerania, how many in Podkarpacie have been included in the support schemes under the ONW. That's it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The aim of the project is to extend, for 2019, the possibility to submit, instead of an application for payment, an appropriate statement in which the farmer will confirm that no changes have been made compared to the previous year's application. According to the Ministry, last year around 400,000 people took advantage of this possibility. farmers. According to estimates, a similar number of farmers will benefit from the possibility of making a declaration this year, i.e. about 30% of all beneficiaries of direct payments. The Ministry states that the solution put in place last year, i.e. the possibility of making a statement, has made it possible to simplify the application procedure considerably, which was particularly important in order to fulfil the obligation to implement the geospatial application imposed on the Member States of the European Union. I am somewhat amazed by this statement, because the statements that are made in paper form are then transferred by the staff of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture to the IT system. I understand it's time to put 400,000 into the system. statements and, consequently, the cost of staff employment, printing costs, shipping costs are no problem for the Ministry and are not worth any attention. Nor is it a rational argument for me that 2019 is only the second year of compulsory electronic submission of applications. Since last year we met the requirements of the European Union and more than 90% applications were submitted in electronic form, which means that Polish farmers have dealt well with the new formula for submitting applications and, in my opinion, the Ministry has shown overly restraint in this respect. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that I do not understand why the Ministry is going back and instead of reducing bureaucracy to a minimum, it proposes an extension of the obligation imposed on ARIMR to send partially completed applications in paper form to farmers, together with graphic materials, to all farmers who applied for payments in the previous year and not only to those who did so in paper form. This means millions of printed pages that will eventually end up in the oven at best. These are the next hours of work which employees devote to their preparation and distribution, and thus, millions of costs financed from the pockets of Poles. This is a waste of time and public money that could be used to finance other pressing needs, such as the continuing endless fight against ASF. Last year we reached 90% applications completed in electronic form, this is to be 100% next year And we go back to the old method, which is a piece of paper. In conclusion, I would like to express my negative assessment of this project and at the same time appeal to the Minister and to the ladies and gentlemen of Members for courageous actions that will lead us forward, which will develop Polish agriculture, which will prudently take care of every public zloty, and in this case millions, which should be spent on bio-insurance rather than thousands of unnecessary printed pages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u215	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the Polish People's Party. There isn't. Ms Ewa Lieder, in turn, presented the position of the club in writing. Let's get to the questions. If anyone wants to sign up, I would like to invite you. Question time is one and a half minutes. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u216	Minister! High Izbo! As I mentioned in the statement on behalf of the club, the money in the budget is not made of rubber, especially money in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. We know that there are fewer agricultural resources this year. All the more so wonder why we spend such a large amount on printing, sending and then introducing these proposals, transforming them from paper to electronic form. And the question is about the total amount of these costs, including the costs of derivatives. At the same time, if the Minister could possibly tell us how many farms would be safe with this money, it would be bio-sequential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for the rapporteur. I would like to ask you whether the e-proposals have generally worked out and whether this form of statements which was introduced in 2018 was the best, possibly, how many such requests, statements in 2018 were made and whether these e-proposals could have been introduced earlier. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u219	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Ryszard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the votes that applied to this. I thank the rapporteur and the Members for their statements on the law amending the Law amending the Law on direct payments. It's a short reference. This year we will implement the second year of e-applications, electronic proposals, when farmers get the opportunity, and even have the obligation to submit an application in electronic form, not in paper form. This is the second year and we have experience from the previous year. Perhaps we should refer to the fact that we have implemented this because of earlier delays, the lack of an IT system, the wrong IT system. Other countries already in 2014, 2015 had a vast majority of applications in electronic form. And when we found the IT systems like this, for the next two years, we worked to change this structure. The result - answering one of the questions already raised - in 2018 was that if a year earlier, when there was not yet a proper IT system, which would implement e-applications, 1% applications were in electronic form and 99% the proposals were in paper form, and a year later we got this situation through the agency's activities, for which I thank you, by improving the IT system, through the entire information campaign of agricultural advisory centers, that - here immediately corrected, because yesterday at the committee meeting I gave some values that need to be improved, I admit, but this does not change the essence of things - 67% farmers submitted 90% of the area of e-applications. That's not 90%. farmers, only 67% farmers, or 900,000. The farmers have submitted... It's about 90%. the entire area eligible for payment, for payments, for direct payments. Which, on a national scale... Let us remember that there are 14 million hectares eligible for subsidies and we transfer 14 billion PLN. This is the first piece of information. Two: in the past year 425 thousand. farmers made declarations, so they did not need to be submitted electronically at the moment. These farmers are close to 30% of the remaining pot. The remaining 8300 farmers submitted them in paper form. Let me remind you that the year before that, 8,000, about 10,000. submitted them in electronic form and one year later, i.e. in the first year of implementation of e-applications, the same submitted them in paper form. So that's the system we have because of the introduction of statements that eliminated the need for proposals at all. And now in terms of benefits, costs, need and purpose of implementation: I agree, it can be said that the cost of 2,700 thousand, the cost of printing... It's a big print, a lot of commitment and difficulty... And so was our thinking, Mr President, Mr President. The arguments... We thought so, too, so the bill allowed certain limitations that we wanted to change. But when we counted that this is the second year of implementation, when we talked to the farmers, that this is the stage where we have a situation that we have a new L.N.W. exemption... Of those 425 thousand. 200,000 farmers. He's gonna have a new release. That doesn't mean they're all gonna be... Those who made statements a year earlier... If it's half of those statements, they're gonna have to see if it's there or not. The agency will check it out. But there's some confusion. Therefore, 2,700 thousand. zł... That's something to consider. Sometimes you have to lose to gain. How much less mistakes will it make for every farmer to get it? How many precise, uploaded requests are there gonna be? It seems to me that such repetition of this whole system will not waver financially, but on the contrary: how many mistakes will be avoided, how many calls by the agency will not be made. And I think the profit after analyzing everyone's pros and cons came out. On the plus side, and that seems to be the case. So I agree, but we discussed our approach and the final such decisions by Minister Ardanowski were taken as directional, supporting farmers. I'm sure the system will work this year. And notice, there is already information that we are working on this law so that from 15 February those farmers who have up to 10 ha and nothing has changed compared to the previous year make statements. With this one check of less-favoured areas... But the others will receive an e-proposal and in a successive way, not for the last day, because the system won't last... Let's remember, we have 1350 grand. farmers applying for it. And it has to go through the IT system so that with the completion of the field work it is possible to submit applications gradually. I am convinced that we have an understanding of farmers, and this aid will only secure us a second year. Because when it comes to the European Commission and the imposition, the rules were: by 2018, until the end of 2018, it was to be 100% in all countries of the European Union. Poland has been included... Not only Poland, but e.g. Italy is not able to implement 100% applications in the form of surface, in electronic form. We got a derogation, which is the right to get 25% in the first year. the area was in electronic form, in the second year - 75% surface. Because to make a distinction: not the farmers, just the eligible area. And in the third year, i.e. in 2020 - 100% surface. In the first year of implementation we had already 90% area, or 67% farmers made electronic statements, the rest were statements. It's for precision, you really need to... Thank you for the hint. This clarifies the information provided yesterday at the Agriculture Committee meeting and arranges for an understanding of the subject. Once again, thank you very much for your support, but we also accept critical words, but there are only different rations. And farmers' rations, pro-farmers, won. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u221	Thank you very much. And now I would ask the rapporteur of the committee of Robert Telus to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u222	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! Thank you very much to all the clubs for supporting this bill. I'm a little surprised at the position of the Kukiz club15, because I think that any money that is directed to the village is money well used. They need to be guided to the countryside, and you have to do everything you can to spend money on it. Twenty-seven hundred thousand. zloty is some kind of money, but it's money for the village. I go to meetings with farmers. I know that Mr Sachajko too. I think the Member knows that many farmers want to make arrangements to go out to reach out to farmers so that they can still look at the maps in the paper version. I know there are specialized farmers, big areas. I think they're doing fine. It is often even that they do not fill out applications themselves, but that companies fill them out. But there are small farmers for whom e-applications are still too difficult. This is the way out primarily for new and small farmers, because they require support from the Polish government. And here thank you, Minister, that you, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, as well as the agency, have proposed a solution that meets Polish agriculture and expectations of the Polish farmer. This is very important. I am surprised that you can say beautiful words, go to meetings, and when it comes to concrete things, to spend money on the Polish village, then it is said that the budget is not made of rubber. Minister, I will always support all the actions that are aimed at the Polish farmer, in which we allocate funds from the state budget to the Polish countryside, because all these actions are very important. I'm surprised at the club I was talking about. The last speech of the head of the club is about shooting wild boars, about the reduction that is needed and which has been done for many years. Those words the boss said show that something else is being said at meetings, and something else is happening in reality. We - as the Polish government, the Government of Law and Justice - are not only facing Polish agriculture at this moment, because many of our actions, which we have taken over the last 3 years, have served to strengthen it, an example is direct sales, dear state, criticized by many. Even here in the Seym, they said it wouldn't help that it wasn't necessary. In fact, many farmers expect us to introduce regulations that will allow them to sell their products directly and shorten their way from the field to the table. This is also an action in favour of the Polish consumer. Thanks to this he buys our, certain Polish food and supports Polish agriculture. For many years in the Polish Parliament, Members of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party have told us that this regulation cannot be introduced because the European Union forbids it. We showed that it was possible. We will try to implement all activities that support Polish agriculture, we will work on them, sometimes even against what the European Union says, in order to introduce them. I'm going to give you a little more interesting here, I think it's important. Minister Ardanowski recently said at a meeting that when he spoke to representatives of the European Union, they said this: if you find solutions that support agriculture in other countries, and they are not in your country, then introduce them. We, as representatives of the European Union, will certainly support them and allow them to be introduced. It hasn't been used so far. We know what solutions are used in Denmark or France. They are much easier on many issues. In Poland we were not allowed to introduce them. Turns out he wasn't an EU official, but Polish didn't allow it. We change this because these actions are very important for Polish agriculture and we will do everything we can to support them. We know that the Polish economy will be strong when Polish agriculture is strong. Therefore, I very much thank the High House for its support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u223	Thank you very much. And, please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz15, will act as a correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u224	Minister! Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! The Member apparently did not listen to what I said. I was talking about the need to spend money on Polish agriculture, and the state in the budget proposed this money much less. That's one thing you didn't understand. The second thing: I said that you had to spend money on agriculture to support it, but not with cards. To spend money is not to give farmers cards that they will mostly burn later, only so that they can grow and earn money. The way you tried to manipulate Paul Kukiz's words is simply outrageous. Paweł Kukiz said that you must not break the backs of a hunter and you must not force them to shoot at a pig dungeon. These are total omissions from you in the fight against ASF - the fact that you cannot reach public opinion and convince it that we have excess boars - there are six times more boars than there were in the 1960s. You know everything better and you don't talk to farmers. Germans can shoot three times more. than we do. The French are shooting wild boars right now. [[And your boss is criticizing.]] They're doing a corridor on the border with Belgium, building a fence. The state is still merely stuttering, and this example that you just quoted from the Seymary is simply outrageous. Mr. Speaker! I would ask not to mislead farmers and to distort the words that Paweł Kukiz said, but to deal with the real conversation with the Polish society, with the citizens, so that by leaving the government, they do not lead them out into the streets. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Beautiful.]] [[Voice from the room: Okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u225	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u226	According to the project, for the second time this year farmers will be able to make statements in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture instead of applications for direct payments and area payments. This applies to farmers who do not make any changes compared to the previous year's application. As in 2018, making a statement will mean applying for the same payments as in the previous year. As we read in the impact assessment for this project: The total costs of printing and shipping personalised payment applications for 2019 (including graphic material and filling instructions) to all farmers who submitted applications in 2018, the ARiMR estimates for approx. PLN 4,110,600 gross. These costs shall include: 1) the cost of printing the above mentioned. materials - approx. PLN 2,544,000 gross, 2) the cost of sending applications by the postal operator - approx. PLN 1 566 600 gross. Similar costs are planned for 2020. In 2018, more than 1,335 million farmers submitted applications for direct payments. Last year, paper applications were submitted approximately 450,000. farmers, the rest of farmers have already submitted an application in electronic form, so farmers in our country in a large part are doing a great deal of computerisation, also as part of their applications and declarations via the Internet. It would therefore be possible, at least in part, to reduce certain expenditure on printing and shipping paper versions to all farmers in Poland benefiting from direct payments. The Supreme Audit Chamber's audit showed that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture did not provide an efficient IT system for processing payment applications. Due to the lack of a good system, agency workers had to work for two shifts and on days off to ensure that applications were handled and direct payments were made to farmers. Moreover, as indicated by the Supreme Audit Chamber, expenditure on development and maintenance of the IT system for handling applications for aid under direct support schemes was high. Between 2015 and 2017, they amounted to a total of over PLN 187 million (most in 2016 - more than PLN 104 million). It can therefore be seen that the State bears the costs of paying additional changes to the agency's staff, expenditure on the SIA's IT system, printing and shipping to all farmers benefiting from direct payments, which can be avoided or which can at least be reduced. The decision to make declarations instead of applications under Union law is expected by farmers. Therefore, the Modern Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u227	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz (print No 3114). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present the parliamentary bill on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz, print no. 3114. The project envisages the creation of the Łukasiewicz Research Network, which responds to the challenges of Polish science and economy, as part of the process of implementing the new development model presented in the Responsible Development Strategy up to 2020, with a view to 2030. In 2010, research institutes were subject to a comprehensive reform to introduce a new quality, to increase the level of research carried out and thus to facilitate cooperation between science and industry. At that time, a model for the functioning of research institutes and their relations with the state and the economy was not developed. As a result, the perception of research institutes continued only as part of the scientific system alongside universities and scientific units of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Research institutes have bottom-up identified challenges and problems to be solved. To date, the supervision of ministers of research institutes was usually based on checking the formal correctness of public spending. Often, the only criterion for assessing research institutes by the Minister for Supervision was the financial result. The Institutes were left free of charge in the well-run topics of the projects and directions of development, so their aim was to maximize their own revenues, not contribute to the development of the Polish economy. Apart from a few examples, this meant a drift of development, determined by the need to survive and adapt to the surrounding reality, and on the scale of the system - the inefficient use of material and human resources or the duplication of investments and areas of activity. The success of individual research institutes and scientific projects proved that the reform did not produce the desired results. One of its effects, contrary to the assumptions adopted, was the significant deepening of the dispersion of scientific activities of research institutes and the associated handling of processes such as shopping, services, technology transfer, etc. The new economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Poland outlined in the Responsible Development Strategy indicates among others. to improve knowledge transfer mechanisms to the business sector and to set up a matrix-based network of research centres based on existing institutes. In fulfilling the tasks arising from the Responsible Development Strategy, the bill provides for the creation of a research network. There are currently 111 research institutes that carry out research in almost all areas of science, ranging from technical and science, through natural, agricultural, medical, and social sciences. They all operate on the basis of the Law of 30 April 2010 on research institutes, which first of all provides that institutes carry out research and development work aimed at their implementation and practical application, and above all should be accounted for. The functioning of separate research institutes supervised by 16 ministers leads to a dissipation of resources and negatively affects the ability to conduct a single government policy in the area of innovation. As a result, research institutes implement their own research agendas, often as a result of individual interests of workers earning themselves and an institute for obtaining grants, not as a result of state-led research policy. The revenues of research institutes from the provision of R &amp; D services, which are a key aspect of their activities from the point of view of the statutory objective, should be considered unsatisfactory. And so, you can say, in 2013 and 2015 the share of revenues from sales of R &amp; D services in research institutes' revenues amounted to 7,3% in total It's 12.5%. with the exclusion of medical research institutes. It is comparable with the grant for statutory activities granted to them by the Minister responsible for Science. The alarming thing is that 37 research institutes, which is almost every third institute, have higher revenues from renting real estate than from selling R &amp; D services. In view of the above, it should be concluded that the establishment of a research network will ensure more effective cooperation between research institutes that will form part of it, inter alia. by harmonising financial management mechanisms, human resources, real estate and intellectual property rights, and by enabling effective supervision of the activities of the integrated institutes. It will be a kind of bridge between science and the economy. The bill provides that the research network will be created by the Centre of Łukasiewicz and institutes operating within the network. The main objective of the network's activities will be to carry out research work, which is crucial for the country's policy, and to commercialise its results. The research network will support the economic policy of the State, in particular by making projections of trends and effects of technological change that can have a strong impact on society and its development, and analysing the state of the art for public policy purposes. The creation of a research network also responds to the need to support public administration with highly specialised expertise, particularly in areas related to modern technologies. The Centre of Łukasiewicz will be responsible for the planning and coordination of research work carried out in the institutes. At the same time Centrum Łukasiewicz will also carry out research projects and commercialise their results. It is proposed that the seat of Centrum Łukasiewicz be the capital city of Warsaw. The main tasks of the institutes operating within the network will be the implementation of research projects, including international projects, as well as the commercialisation of the results of R &amp; D work. The institutes that will operate within the network will retain a separate legal personality. This means that they will act on their own behalf and on their own account. From the point of view of the external partners, the main change will be to supplement the name of the institute by defining: the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. It is proposed to cover the activities of Centrum Łukasiewicz with an external audit carried out at least once every 4 years. The scope of the audit will concern the correctness of the performance of tasks, the annual financial plan, the reporting and functioning of internal control and will cover the period of one year of operation of the Centre Łukasiewicz. The President of Centrum Łukasiewicz will be responsible for ordering an external audit. It is estimated that within the framework of... Project costs are costs related to the establishment of the Centre, i.e. its equipment, the recruitment of employees, which will be financed from the State budget, and the costs of the operation of the network. In the draft budget law for 2019, funds for the operation of the Łukasiewicz network were included in the special reserve, item 81. In the longer term, they will be guaranteed as part of the increase in funding for science in line with the Responsible Development Strategy and Poland's commitments as part of the 2010 Europe 2020. A strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive development, according to which the level of R &amp; D expenditure in 2020 should reach 1.7% GDP. This means increasing funding from both the state and business. It is estimated that in the first year of the operation of the Łukasiewicz network, i.e. in 2019, the operating costs of the Centre may reach 25 million, and in the next 10 years they will amount to 17.5 million per year. These costs will be financed by the resources at the disposal of the Minister responsible for Science. The subsidy for the Łukasiewicz network institutes will be based on funds already transferred to research institutes, which will be included in the Łukasiewicz network as part of the statutory grant. It is assumed that the establishment of the Łukasiewicz network will bring significant savings related to the centralisation of purchases such as energy, telecommunications services, etc. The draft law does not generate direct financial implications for the state budget. The granting of a special grant will be the result of decisions by the relevant ministers on the Council of the Centre. The creation of the Łukasiewicz Research Network will bring a number of benefits. Thanks to the creation of integrated procedures for commercialisation of R &amp; D, the Łukasiewicz network will significantly increase its revenues from sales of services and transfer of knowledge to the economy. Research and development work for entrepreneurs will be an important element of the operation of the Łukasiewicz network, which will have a positive impact on the budget of all research institutes included in the network. The proposed regulations contained in the draft law are compatible with European Union law. To sum up, the network's task is to achieve three main objectives: to consolidate the potential of Polish institutes to support the Polish economy, and to enable entrepreneurs to exploit the potential of Polish science to build competitive advantages in the global economy, to enable the development of career paths of researchers engaged in research that will end in implementation, and to institutionally strengthen research institutes and enable them to transform in such a way that they can become competitive in gaining funding for research and development from European projects. The proposed bill brings important and necessary regulations, corresponding to today's challenges of combining science with the economy and allowing for better exploitation of the research potential of institutes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, I kindly ask you to support the draft law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u229	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u230	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland's development needs, in particular the need to increase the level of innovation of the economy, require the creation of an effective research facility that will work on the most needed economy and technology society. Such a research organisation, as shown by examples of the most innovative European economies, can be the initiator and driver of the necessary changes at both the level of individual entrepreneurs and the entire sectors and sectors. Members have taken the initiative of a systemic solution that responds to the need for such a strong research organisation, the Łukasiewicz Research Network, which will focus key technology institutes with recognised national and international potential. The primary objective of this organization will be to conduct research of key importance for the development of the Polish economy and science, which will translate into innovative solutions, commercialised by industry. The network will create 38 research institutes supervised by ministers of the economy, energy and digitalisation. The added value of the establishment of the Łukasiewicz network will be the effective coordination of actions undertaken so far at the level of individual institutes, i.e. as regards the management of research infrastructures and the management of industrial property rights. The network will focus on 8,000. researchers and technical staff, who often have unique competences on the scale of the industry. The Act creates a mechanism for integrating these competences into the process of training staff for a modern economy through the possibility of extensive cooperation with other actors in the science sector in Poland, e.g. Colleges. This solution will help to underpin the teaching process on experiences in cooperation with entrepreneurs and will open access to the results of the latest research. It should be stressed that this type of action falls directly within the existing constitution for science, where the aspect of good professional training of graduates for economic purposes is identified as one of the main missions of the science and higher education sector. The creation of the Łukasiewicz network according to the proposed submission will also break one of the biggest problems of the Polish science sector, i.e. its fragmentation. The network will work according to long-term strategies and detailed business plans that will be developed around the most important interdisciplinary projects carried out by groups of network institutes together with external partners. However, research activities will be monitored on an ongoing basis and evaluated by the network centre, which on the one hand will allow for ongoing response to emerging potentials of new technological solutions, and on the other will allow for rapid abandonment of projects that are not successful. This solution will not only contribute to a more rational management of public funding for science, it will also enable quick decisions to support new ideas that will emerge much faster in innovative solutions than a normal administrative system is able to respond. To sum up, the proposed law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz, in my opinion, is a golden measure combining administrative capacity to minimise market risk in the development of innovative solutions with the effectiveness of large economic organisations, which are most successful in a globalised economy. For this reason, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this project. I am pleased that this project has come to the meeting of the High House and, because of its importance, we hope to proceed quickly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u231	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel is not here. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before presenting the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the contested Law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz, I would like to make a preliminary remark that it amazes some kind of inconsistency in the position of Prime Minister Gowin, who on the one hand on 17 December 2018 spoke about the need to move central institutions to a wider province in order to enrich it in some way, but also to intensify its functioning, and here in the project of the Łukasiewicz network - the fact that much earlier - says that the headquarters of this centre will be Warsaw. Well, that's kind of the opposite of Minister Gowin's. [[Oh, my gosh.]] The basic questions to be asked to applicants relate to what the Minister of Science and Higher Education, supposed to have deregulation in mind, that he is introducing further research solutions that further centralise them in a certain way. I've never seen it before. It is clear, however, that this is a government project, but for legislative reasons it must be owned by a group of Members so that the project is implemented more quickly and does not have to go through all the procedures, e.g. with regard to public consultation. In general, the establishment of the Łukasiewicz network is intended, as is apparent from the Act, to focus the functioning of scientific institutes entering the network on efficiency in the form of concrete implementation into the economy. But at the same time, institutes are deprived of their doctoral and habilitation powers. The main objective of the Łukasiewicz network will be, according to the project, to carry out research and development work particularly important for the implementation of the economic, scientific, scientific and technological policy of the country and to transfer knowledge and implement the results of research and development to the economy. The Centre of Łukasiewicz will also be responsible for introducing uniform rules for the use of research infrastructure at the disposal of institutes forming part of the network. In general, however, the law is redundant, but if necessary, as the applicants want it, they admit that the current model of supervision of individual ministers over their institutes has not been proven and the money spent on the activities of both ministers and their institutes has been wasted. I would like to remind you here of the argument put forward by the applicant's representative that the need for the Łukasiewicz network is evidenced by the fact that many institutes rely on rental revenues. This argument was raised two years ago and nothing has changed since. Perhaps this is just a direct transfer from the arguments of the government project, but it is surprising that some conclusions have not yet been drawn from it. Of course, the costs of setting up and functioning of the Łukasiewicz network have also changed - they have increased significantly. The solution proposed in the bill is to create another administrative cap, already large in the current government. All decisions relating to the operation of the Łukasiewicz network are transferred to the Minister responsible for Science. Further shortcomings in this solution need to be identified. It goes on for example. the fact that there was no tax incentive in terms of innovation box, i.e. tax credit for revenue from the sale of intellectual property, in terms of the use of intellectual property effects. It also appears that the institutes of the network, called institutes and should be called research institutes - the name itself should indicate their level and status - will be devoid of this scientific status and thus may lose membership in research organisations and the possibility of carrying out international projects in which they exist as scientific bodies. The number of inconsistencies is very long and I could show it on many examples, but I will only mention that the competence of the centre and its president are far too wide. In a competitive market economy, the Act proposes drastic centralisation of power and decision-making, which is a bad solution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion, this legislation is redundant. This is the creation of another unnecessary law, which is why Kukiz15, as a club, is opposed to the adoption of this law and is requesting that it be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u233	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krystian Jarubas made a statement in writing. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first point, of course, is that which has already been presented, that this is another example showing that the Law and Justice are avoiding the principle of proper law-making. The laws drawn up by the ministries are sent to the Members of the Sejm as parliamentary projects, in order to make up for lost time, and, secondly, avoid any opinions, consultation and presentation of their own opinions by the environment most interested. It can be said that Law and Justice are faithful to three principles: centralization, centralization, centralization. You just want to decide everything that's going on in this country, even what scientists are supposed to work on, what they're supposed to do, what research institutes are supposed to do. You just want to decide everything. Today, we were looking at one law that was going in the right direction, because it was erasing the supervisory board in one of the state agencies. Here you are setting up a network of Łukasiewicz, which will have not only presidents, four deputies, council, but also the entire advisory committee, expert in the number of twenty-several scientists who will receive remuneration for this. I do not know if these are the next positions for those who are connected with you because they are having trouble making ends meet, as the Prime Minister once said. I guess the others have a problem, too. But it's not gonna lead to anything. It's not gonna lead to anything. 111 research institutes, you choose raisins, you select 38 institutes that suit you, and you manage them. What about the others? If, indeed, an analysis of the functioning of research institutes after 2010, in which the law was introduced, which reorganized the operation of research institutes, showed that they were malfunctioning, there was nothing to prevent the rule of law and justice from bent over it over the last three years and to prepare solutions that would support these institutes. Irregularities could be avoided. On the other hand, you simply want to start all over again, as if the new era of development of Polish science began with the rule of law and justice. Will that have the intended effect? I don't know, I'm afraid not. And a question. If this is a parliamentary project, you might want to share with whom you consulted, who is the author of these solutions, who is in favour of this type of action. This is another law, which was raised here, which was intended to serve the deagglomeration, i.e. the dispersal of government institutions in Poland. We already have a request to bring the Polish Space Agency from Gdansk to Warsaw, now we have another, assuming that the headquarters of the Łukasiewicz network is to be in Warsaw. It doesn't really fit what Minister Gowin is proposing. It seems that the instruments in which both the President and the Council are armed are very large. We are afraid that this will not work properly, so we will see how the committee work is going to be done and whether this project can be repaired at all. For now, we will see and bend over to this project during the committee work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u235	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Members' Circle Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In the name of the Circle of Messenger Now! I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. First of all, I would like to remind you of the discussion we had here, the disputes we had in 2016 about the amendment of the Law on Research Institutes. The project did not address the need to increase the competitiveness of research institutes in the international arena, we did not talk about the problems of regulating the funding of institutes. Instead, we received a document to ensure political control of these institutions. Is it gonna be different this time? I'm having a lot of doubts. It seems that you have politically subjugated individual institutes, and now you simply want to combine them, merge them into a network that will have its presidents, vice presidents, directors, vice-directors, managers. Of course, all positions will be paid, which means that they will become a gratifying bite for scientists politically associated with the PiS. So much for entry. In my view, this law is another step towards subjugating research in order to achieve certain political objectives. I do not question the need for reform of research institutes and even a certain coordination of their activities - I want to stress this very strongly - but I certainly do not trust the proposal that was put forward in this project. Regardless of the above, I agree with the many elements of the diagnosis that were at the heart of this law. You're referring to the explanatory memorandum for patent statistics. These results really are not the best, because only 32 institutes, that's about 28% , they did not obtain a single patent in 2009. That means as many as 28% of institutes have not obtained a single patent. In 2015, only four technical universities achieved a better result than the whole institute sector. In the case of patents, I would also like to recall data from the 2016 European Patent Office. Poland against the background of the countries of the European Union takes 16th place with the result of 180 patents per year, neighbouring Germany, which is the leader of this list, patent more than 18 thousand a year. Inventions. The situation of research institutes in terms of international competitiveness is also poor. I'm talking about the level of funding. Even if such grants are obtained, e.g. in 2015 nine grants, these were grants between tens and tens of thousands of zlotys. Also Global Innovation Index, which takes into account 81 indicators, among others. The use of patent data also puts us in the tail of countries, especially among the countries of the European Union. Many studies indicate that the problem for cooperation between business and science is, among others. lower than the EU average level of industrial employment in highly specialised and medium-tech industries, as well as knowledge-based services. Ladies and gentlemen! You are talking about building a bridge between science and business, but why do you not take into account such a basis, namely the stabilisation of legal changes in Poland or what is happening with legislation? Entrepreneurs are watching. Why don't you take into account the trust of business in a country that's been ruined, given the last three years and the changes, how and at what rate are you making business changes? The construction of these bridges must not be based on poor pillars, on poorly stable pillars. Not without reason, of course, you have been investigating this project for so long, and you are now reporting it as a parliamentary project to announce it faster, without any consultation. This project centralises the system of research institutes, subjecting it to institutions in the form of a central committee, and from what we can read, it really does not give any guarantee of greater efficiency in the management of such a network, such a structure. We'll probably have to deal with even more bureaucracy. I can already see the need for additional reporting to a new body, the need for more complex accounting, subjecting individual bodies. Observing the daily practice of the PiS taking advantage of the next spheres of public life, I have no doubt that the creation of the Łukasiewicz network will be accompanied by a great setback at the very beginning, and the real effects for Polish science and business will simply be miserable. Circle now! will oppose this act in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u237	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u238	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law on the Łukasiewicz Research Network. First of all, it should be remembered that on 5 January 2018 a government draft law on the Research Network was introduced into the Sejm: Łukasiewicz. It was there with a colon. There's a big difference here because the colon's gone. The first reading took place on January 25. During the first reading, numerous project flaws were pointed out. Attention has been paid to the overwhelming criticism of many of the stakeholders with whom the project met in the course of the consultation. A huge number of criticisms were indicated. I'm sending you to the impact assessment. There, my predecessor, who was evaluating that project, added 146 critical remarks. Only a few have been taken into account. After first reading and referral to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development, the project disappeared from the perspective of the participants in the legislative process and was officially withdrawn on 22 November 2018. And that was a good step, that was the right step. But already on December 10, 2018 the Parliamentary draft law on the Research Network Łukaszewicz entered the Sejm. No colon, ladies and gentlemen, so we see that the difference is important. [[It's colossal.]] The project has the same structure and most solutions as the government project. In fact, it's the same justification. However, the parliamentary project is not accompanied by an assessment of the impact of the regulation and therefore by information on the consultation during which, as indicated above, the project has been strongly assessed. The parliamentary nature of the project was, as it seems, to remove negative regulatory assessments. Such manipulation means disregarding the Sejm. The name "Network" indicates that the organization is currently having a network layout, so this network is important for the whole structure. Meanwhile, the design standardizations form a clearly hierarchical arrangement. That's what the opinion says. Thus, the title of the law and the terminology used contradicts the content of the solutions. In the Łukasiewicz Research Network - without a colon - which is to be a highly centralised organism, the official factor dominates. The Head of the Centre shall be appointed by the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science. No contest mode is required. I'm not gonna use famous names here anymore. The requirements to be met by the President are not excessive. The minister can cancel the president, in fact, whenever he wants. This is indicated by the provision whereby the President may be called off in the event of an act which is unlawful, economic or intentional. So these are the evaluation deadlines -- I'm skipping the law -- which allow for removal at any time. The Vice-Presidents, of course, are also appointed by the Minister. The President of the Centre has similar competence vis-à-vis the directors of the Network Institutes. In the project, please, we read that both Centrum Łukasiewicz and the network institutes run their own financial economy. However, it may be asked what kind of autonomy it is about, since the Minister approves the Centre's annual financial plan and controls the legality, integrity and economy, i.e. in practice, he may question any expenditure both in the plan and in the implementation of the plan. The powers of the Centre's President in relation to institutes on the network are similar. These institutes are to be 38. According to the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland it is too big an organization which cannot be managed efficiently. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The project cannot be accepted. I therefore move that it be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u239	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. [[How long?]] The first question is asked by Anna Elizabeth Sobeck, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u240	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Institutes are scientific units, they form a significant scientific product of the country and contribute to most implementations of research results in the Polish economy. Is it true, therefore, that the following risks arise from this law: the deletion of parts of research institutes, i.e. 38 research institutes under the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, of the currently functioning 114 research institutes under the other departments, will result in their unequal legal and organisational treatment and create an artificial and easy to manipulate and vulnerable to the influence of the creation? Exclusion of research institutes from the action of the Law on the Financing of Higher Education and Science, i.e. Law 2.0, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it's gonna push them to the edge of science. Research institutes will not count as scientific units and will become more productive and service companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u241	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If 111 research institutes were ineffective or ineffective, why did you wait for a year and do these maneuvers between the withdrawal of the government project and the notification of the parliamentary project? Again: Why is only 38 institutes part of this solution, this network? That means you're not solving anything for 2/3. That's how you read it. The project beats belief in centralism. For 25 million zlotys, you'll build a hat. There's no network here, there's a hierarchical system here. As part of your proposed solutions, you do not see any mechanisms that induce interaction between network participants, which is to build the synergies you expect. It is building a hierarchical system and vertical interactions. Therefore, this cannot work. There is no philosophy, no concept of a cluster, no housing of research institutes or building them in, for example. in technology parks. I don't see such modern solutions here. [[Applause]] [[Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u243	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u244	Dear Marshal! Minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the main purpose of the network's activities will be to carry out research work which is key from the point of view of the country's policy and to commercialise its results. In addition, the network will support the economic policy of the State. Please inform me: What support will the public administration be able to count on? What is the greatest emphasis on science? What and will the benefits for the Polish economy result from this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u245	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask... The project states that 38 institutes will belong to the network. There are more than 100 in Poland. I wanted to ask, is this list of 38 items closed? Will it be possible, or will the institutes be able to enter this network? What are the rules? I also wanted to ask you about the issue that you have raised clearly here, and you have said a great deal about this administrative cap here. Is that true? Is it true that the network will have such an extensive administration system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u247	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u248	Dear Marshal! Minister! One short question: What will be the role of Centrum Łukasiewicz in relation to the research network of institutes that already exist? What will the Centre of Łukasiewicz really do, and what will these institutes do?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u249	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You call to life a creation called the Research Network of Łukasiewicz, within which you associate research institutes. I wanted to ask a question that was often asked in various forms today by this speaker, but I wanted to make it concrete. Now, what criterion did you use to select institutes for this network? What kind of reasons? And what decided that these, rather than others, institutes in this network would be part of this network? I remember, Minister, when we talked more than a year ago about this first project, a project with a colon, that you would consult the establishment of this institute, this network with institutes. As far as I know, this consultation did not take place. Of course, I am aware that this is a parliamentary project, which is exactly what it took the form of, but decency would be ordered, Minister, to conduct these consultations. If they were, please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This information has been notified because it appears from my knowledge that there has been no such consultation. In April this year, the institute is to be established, and you are to take over as a network. And I wanted to ask, when will the organizational structures be established?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u251	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u252	Will it be on the same day? It will, of course, bring great chaos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u253	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u254	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It is difficult to understand the position of Members of the opposition against the bill. Isn't it important that we strengthen the potential and effectiveness of the research institutes that work today? [[Of course.]] Today, you have talked about the weak effects of the Institutes' work to date. We have even heard here about the tail of the countries, especially the countries of the European Union. That is why this project was created - to adapt the functioning of those institutes that are working today to the new challenges. It is a pity that we once again hear sarcasm, malice, and even applications for rejection of the law at first reading, before really going deep into the content of this project, let alone the insight of this digging. I have a question: Will the proposed solution address the challenges, the challenges of today, whether it will contribute to the efficiency of the Institutes' work and to this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that research work will finally end with implementation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u255	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Three questions. First of all, what is the difference between the parliamentary project and the withdrawn former government project? Except for the proverbial colon, of course. Second question: Have the Members who have worked and prepared this bill taken into account all these critical remarks, and there have already been a hundred dozen... [[Yeah, yeah.]] ...in terms of the impact of the regulations that were reported on the government project? Did you lean on these comments... [[Yeah, yeah.]] ...and have they been included in this bill? And the third question is, what will happen to other institutes that aren't online? What will be the formula for their functioning? Do you anticipate changes in the management of those entities as well? What's the fate of those who won't be online? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u257	Thank you very much. And please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Minister Piotr Dardziński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The parliamentary project on the Research Network Łukasiewicz is a response to the challenges you have already mentioned, to the need to mobilise the potential of Polish research institutes and is part of the implementation of both economic and social development strategies, which is defined in the strategy of responsible development. It is also part of a consistently implemented science reform strategy that is being implemented by Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin. So let me also remind you in two sentences of the context and what has happened in the last two years. On 1 January 2017, we introduced a 50% discount on R &amp; D. On 1 January 2018, the relief was increased to 100%. On 1 January 2019 - I see that Mr Brynkus is no longer here - Innovation Box, which is a tax relief on intellectual property profits, began to operate. [[And that's what we praise.]] In this way we strengthened Polish entrepreneurs, who invested almost 15% year by year. more resources, which means that between 2016 and 2017 the R &amp; D expenditure increased by 2.5 billion - and this was mainly the investment of entrepreneurs who invest their money, show that government policy is effective. The number of people employed by companies that deal with R &amp; D has increased by 20% per year. So we're dealing with a very dynamic trend that... Attention, on the side of Polish entrepreneurs there are statistics of the CSO, which clearly show that the Polish economy is ready to take up the technological challenge of competing with the best developed countries. You need a strong one for that. and a well-organized science partner. As you know, a new law on higher education and science was implemented on 1 October 2018. Interestingly, between October and December last year, the number of applications submitted by Polish universities concerning Horizon 2020 increased by 20%. It took actually one quarter to effectively unleash the potential of Polish scientists. The commercialisation achievements of Polish universities, including patenting, will be much more taken into account in the evaluation system. This means that in this system, where we have entrepreneurs on one side and universities on the other, there is a lack of this third element, that is, the part of the science area which is dedicated, dedicated and directed to cooperation with companies to a greater extent than universities, which also have teaching and scientific responsibilities, especially related to basic sciences. The Łukasiewicz Research Network is just filling this gap. Your criticism sometimes puts us in a very difficult situation. Two examples. On the one hand, you say that we do not take into account comments, we do not consult laws, and then you say that we have been working too long, that we are changing the concepts that we are sending more projects. Yes, we are sending further projects because we work very consistently and very honestly with the environment. The fact is that, in relation to the original concept of the National Institute of Technology, which was the only organisation, we have prepared a project together with Members who are accepted by the environment, which is expressed in writing by the position of the General Council of Research Institutes, with which work, and the General Council of Research Institutes represents all institutes, has been very intense, sometimes very difficult but fruitful. All relevant comments were taken into account by the government, as reflected in the new project. I will refer to this when asking what the differences between the government project and the parliamentary project are. In this respect, this law is very deeply consulted, discussed and is accepted by the research institutes in my opinion. Such a position shall be represented at least by those who are the head of the General Council of Research Institutes. Even the parliamentary project was sent for a monthly consultation, the last one. So even though we worked with the environment for 1.5 years, the final version of the new project was sent with a monthly consultation deadline. So I have no sense here that your allegations of urgency, speed and arrogance are true. The second example. On the one hand, you are accusing us of centralising research institutes and we want to supervise them all, and on the other hand you are asking us why we will not join them all. It is precisely because we do not centralize, precisely because we believe that the environment, this innovative ecosystem should be different. There should be institutes that are networked, and institutes that respond to the needs of specific ministries are highly industrially oriented, such as. Energy institutes. We're very diverse right now. We do not recognize that there is only one model in which research institutes can function. Therefore, firstly, there is no question of centralising the entire research institute environment, secondly, there is also no question of centralization within the network. If you don't mind, I'm going to refer to some of the questions that you have been making, but which have also appeared in several speeches. I am pleased that to a much smaller extent than the previous project, you have paid attention to scientific status, although the wording has emerged... Mrs Sobecka asked why we are removing institutes from the science system. The draft shall clearly indicate that Article. The 7th Law on Higher Education and Science will be added alongside universities, PAN institutes, international institutes and research institutes also the Institutes of the Research Network Łukasiewicz as forming a system of science in Poland. This is something we've been talking about from the very beginning, which was supposed to be in the bill. The issue of the order of work on laws caused that in the first law, this could not be found in the government project, because then we had not yet had a new law on higher education and science. The Institutes therefore remain in the science system in Poland and will also be financed by means that are dedicated to science. In that sense, we don't cross anybody out. Mr Wilczyński asked why not all of them. I'm a little into it. There was also a question of what were the criteria for setting up these institutes on the network. They were, ladies and gentlemen, set up by a free and free decision of the directors who had to be accepted by their supervisors. It seems to me that the situation in which - and this was a natural situation also earlier - the reports of institutes... Mr Nykiel mentioned this. The Institutes' financial statements and plans have always been approved and have always been supervised by the competent ministries. In this respect, we don't change anything. The Ministry, if it is public funds, must supervise these measures in an appropriate manner. In fact, we would say that setting up a network makes the distance between the director of the institute and the ministries increase. In this sense, the distance and the potential for influence that you are talking about, but I do not know why we would have this effect of practicing, is being reduced. This is a better, more favourable situation - maintaining autonomy for research institutes. What were the criteria? Ministers themselves decided which institutes were reporting and consulted these decisions with other institutes. Most institutes have not been notified to the network. The Institutes for Networking reported the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, the Ministry of Digitalization and the Ministry of Energy. Mrs Borowiak asked whether the network was open. Yeah, it's open. We think it's a process. We don't absorb, we don't drag all the institutes into the network. We both leave the possibility to enter as well as the possibility to exit the network. This is not a final decision. The institutes may share, maybe connect, maybe even eliminate each other. It will also be the decision of the internal network. On the other hand, in the context of centralisation, as proposed by our social partners, an amendment was introduced in the parliamentary project to say that institutes would not be included in the centre in order to guarantee what we said and what we never intended to do in order to ensure that the government was not planning to set up a single super institute by including all institutes in the network centre. In this context, I would perhaps answer Mr Piechowiak's question about the role of the centre in the network. The Centre shall be of a supportive nature. Of course, as in any organization, also matrix organization, there is a reporting system, that is, reporting on what the state of the projects is or what the rules of their financing are. That doesn't mean a subordinate system at all. If the network centre is to coordinate the work of all institutes, then naturally all institutes have to report to the network centre, because this is the only way it has information about what these institutes are doing. The Centre acts as a moderator, coordinator. The applicant mentioned that it also has such a function that it can carry out research projects and commercialise them. Yes, but mostly and even only will be research projects whose scope will not overlap with the competence of institutes, because the main competence of the Centre is to support institutes, firstly, in the area of legal protection of intellectual property, secondly, in building models of how to commercialise research and, thirdly, in analysing the markets in which we can commercialise this research. And we know that research can also be carried out in these areas. Research and R &amp; D projects can be carried out on how an innovative business model for products that do not yet exist can work. And there are competent people, scientists who study such projects. And we should do this kind of science, too. Why should we cultivate it, and why is it the center? Because it is not the role of scientists, technologists, engineers or the need to acquire commercialization competences. They are working on the development of technology, but we do not have to burden them with the need to know the Code of Commercial Companies, the functioning of venture capital funds or the conduct of marketing campaigns for products that sometimes even raise the concerns of customers at first. This is the role of those teachings that support technical science. This is the role of economists, lawyers, sociologists, psychologists, which today we do not have in institutes, because according to the scope they have presented today, this is not their basic activity. The Centre of the Łukasiewicz Research Network helps institutes. Is this the centralist solution? This is not what our partners in the finland VTT, who for the money of the European Commission, who thought that our proposals were so interesting and could serve as model solutions in Europe for the reform of research institutes - she pays Finns, employees of one of the most efficient research networks - to advise us on how to reform our institutes. It was not a surprise, and it was even a recommendation of the PSF report, which the European Commission carried out as part of its audit in the field of science and higher education in Poland, where from several European countries experts assessed that this was a good solution. This is not surprising to our European partners for the simple reason that such networks already exist: the VTT network I mentioned, the Fraunhofer network, the Carnot network in France. Because they have coordinated jobs through centers that sometimes employ several thousand... Please check how many employees have Fraunhofer headquarters in Munich and what this headquarters looks like, and then you will be able to say responsibly and honestly whether 50 employees of the centre in Warsaw are enough support for Polish institutes when in Munich institutes are supported by several hundred, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and even more than a thousand employees. The bill responds to the needs that we have, implements government strategies and is a very good solution for the research institute environment, which is why we welcome and support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u259	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first time we failed, we have a second approach. This time the parliamentary project - quickly, without unnecessary consultation and after light, cosmetic changes. It's just that it's still powdering reality, and she might seem sad to a lot of scientists. First of all, centralization. Not from today we know that PiS loves to return to the PRL model of centralization of everything - to create archaic piers. The planned network is to bring together dozens of existing research institutes and provide scientific support for strategic government programmes. Beautiful words, beautiful assumptions, at least on paper, because once we ask the scientific community, they are not so beautifully assessed. According to many experienced scientists, after the proposed law has entered into force, these institutions will lose, among others. the status of the research entity and international financing. The institution will also be tasked with e.g. provide financial resources and cooperation mechanisms for networking and commercialisation of research and development results. The seat will be located in Warsaw. Secondly, what tigers like most: stools, stools and money. Yes, yes, Centrum Łukasiewicz is to be headed by the president - attention - appointed by the Minister of Science and four other vice-presidents and a council consisting of six members and a chairman. A college of advisors composed of 20 members will operate with the President. And that is not the end, because the President will appoint directors of all the institutes that are part of the network, as well as members of the councils in each of them. Each advice can count to 15 people. So-called. The bearmen must be covering their hands by now. Third, the wreck, because PiS-owski's roller loves to drive anywhere he can. This parliamentary project in most of the records is very similar to the Łukasiewicz Research Network project prepared by the Ministry of Science, adopted by the government on 28 December 2017. The project was sent to the Sejm at the beginning of January 2018, but it was lost because it was negatively assessed and caused numerous protests from the scientific community. Today you go back to some of his records, e.g. that research institutes operating within the network will lose their competence to award degrees. The President of the Centre of Łukasiewicz has also been given a great deal of competence. In our opinion, although the name changes and disappears from the National Institute of Technology project, so many doubts remain. on the actual existence of the legal personality of the institutes in the functioning of the principles of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u261	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 3:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 04 hours 15 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted draft resolutions on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the inauguration of the Legislative Sejm, print No 3153, and on the commemoration of President Thomas Woodrow Wilson, print No 3152. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible submitted a report on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Association of Polish Geodets, print no. 3141. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau submitted proposals for the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs, for print No 3154 and for changes in the personal composition of the Sejm committees, for print No 3155. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the inauguration of the proceedings of the Legislative Sejm (Print No 3153). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the draft resolution: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the inauguration of the session of the Legislative Sejm. The first meeting of the Legislative Sejm took place on 10 February 1919. Józef Piłsudski, in his solemn address to the opening of the Sejm, stated: "The 18th century of fighting, sometimes bloody and sacrificial, found its triumph today. A century and a half of dreams of free Poland were waiting to come true at the present time. Today is a great celebration of the nation, a feast of joy after a long, hard night of suffering. In this hour of great Polish heartbeats I feel happy that it has been my privilege to open the Polish Sejm, which will once again be the home of his mother's only master and host." The work of the Legislative Sejm created the foundations of modern Polish democracy. We consider the convening of Parliament to be the ultimate symbol of regaining independence and resurrecting republican traditions after 123 years of partitioning. Members with different political orientations, representatives of different nationalities, religions, cultures and socio-occupational groups sat in the Legislative Seym. The special feature of this parliament was the presence of women who gained active and passive electoral rights in 1918, together with Poland's regaining independence. Thus, free Poland joined the group of European precursors of equality between men and women. Despite the internal diversity of the Legislative Sejm, it has become an authentic platform for exchange of views, seeking consensus, symbolizing consent, tolerance and integration over divisions. The laws adopted by the Legislative Sejm allowed for the unification of the country, the unification of the lands forming part of the three partitions, as well as economic reconstruction and development of education. The Legislative Sejm, ratifying 40 international treaties, also confirmed the importance of Parliament's institutions in developing the foreign policy of the Republic of Poland. The culmination of the work of the Legislative Sejm was the adoption of the Act of 17 March 1921 - the Constitution of the Republic of Poland - the first modern Polish basic law, which granted the National Authority of Authority in the Republic of Poland and introduced the egalitarian system of the democratic republic. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, appreciating the importance of the work carried out a century ago to strengthen the Polish state, expresses the highest respect and pays tribute to parliamentarians who are part of the Legislative Sejm. I ask Members to adopt a resolution. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the inauguration of the session of the Legislative Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: a draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of President Thomas Woodrow Wilson (print No 3152). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Polish Parliament on the commemoration of President Thomas Woodrow Wilson. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Thomas Woodrow Wilson, the twenty-eightth President of the United States of America, a person particularly deserving of Polish independence, Nobel Peace Prize winner for 1919. In the last year of the First World War, on 8 January 1918, President Wilson presented the peace program in his message to the US Congress, calling for the creation of an independent Polish state at point 13. President Wilson was also one of the main figures at the post-war European borders of the Paris Conference launched on 18 January 1919. He strengthened friendship between the Polish and American nations, referring to the values that unite us: the undisputed right of nations to self-determination, freedom and equality. For his service to Poland in November 1922, he was awarded the Order of the White Eagle. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland is convinced that the statue of President Thomas Woodrow Wilson will soon be in Warsaw. I ask Members to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the commemoration of President Thomas Woodrow Wilson. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Information from the Minister of Infrastructure on the circumstances and the procedure for establishing the current S12 expressway plan in the vicinity of Radom, as well as the factors taken into account in its determination and the purpose of changing its previous location, as notified by the Civic Coalition Civil Platform Parliamentary Club, - Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on official time in the territory of the Republic of Poland, submitted by the Polish People's Party Association - the European Union of Democrats. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the We are voting on a motion for information on the S12 expressway in the Radom area. Who among you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. For - 176, against - 219, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the proposal for a report by the commission on the draft law amending the Act on official time in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Who among you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 64, against - 347, stopped 3. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the governmental draft law on the amendment of the Foreigners Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3126. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3126, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 340, against - 79, the 4. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. We return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Industrial Property Law. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3121. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Za - 420, against - 2, abstained 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Industrial Property Law. We would like to refer to item 9 on the following: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft law on printing No 3131. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15 Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Based on the records of this project we will spend almost PLN 3 million on printing cards, which will probably be in the oven later. My question to the Minister: How many farms would we help in bioinsurance, so we could just produce pigs in Poland if we spent this money on bioinsurance against ASF instead of printing empty cards that wouldn't be useful? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u263	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer this question in writing. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print 3131, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 388, against - 29, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3000-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finance, today dealing with the government draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, proposed to accept four amendments and reject three. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u265	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for a bill. We are voting on the amendments tabled in the first place. Amendments 1 to 4 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, deposit guarantee scheme and compulsory restructuring. In Amendment 1. to Article. 1 applicants propose, inter alia, Delete point (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Amendments 5, 7 and 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is requesting their admission. The adoption of these amendments will render amendment 8 irrelevant. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This amendment concerns the famous amendment: the bank for the gold or the fast track of bank acquittal. We'll get back to the subject after months. I get the feeling it's not by accident this week. But the key thing is that if you really want to withdraw from these provisions, you have to accept Amendment 8, which this amendment will delete. Only this amendment will actually remove from Polish law this rapid path of expropriation of banks or bank takeover. If the Ministry of Finance believes that such a fast path is needed, then let it submit a normal draft amendment to the bill, with full justification and author. It's not possible for a committee like this to be thrown in, because in fact, that's when all these doubts are born -- like the ones about this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] why this amendment was tabled at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u267	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Długi has the floor. May I remind you that this is the moment? Asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: why isn't this amendment going the other way? What is currently being proposed is the deepening of the mess in our legislation. The thing that should be in the Bank Guarantee Fund Act is only left in the KNF Act. It should be the other way around. This should only be in the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, where all this matter is regulated and not... At the moment because of later events and, so to speak, unexplained circumstances related to the KNF institution we are making legislative changes that are supposed to explain this hasty action in some sense then. Let's really think about it. This amendment should be addressed the other way. Then she could get our support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u269	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a written reply, if any, from Minister Nowak. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1, 5, 7 and 9, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 246, against -14, with 163 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 1 the draft applicants propose to add point 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 181, against - 228, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 1 of the draft applicants propose amendments to points 24, 35 (a) and (b) of the proposal. c and 40. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 388, against - 13, the 9. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 335 and Article 335 336 of the amended act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For -382, against -6, with 34 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 2 draft law applicants propose to add point 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 187, against - 228, with 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. There are questions to the whole thing. Member of Genowef Tokarska, club PSL-UED.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u270	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions for the government. Why did this government draft law on BFG introduce controversial provisions only at the final stage of legislative work? It was the same with the KNF Act. Why were representatives of the Polish Bank Association excluded from the Banking Council of the Guarantee Fund? After all, they make up the fund and their presence seems obvious. Why does this bill bring further far-reaching facilities for the SKOKs? After all, we all know that the most abnormal, even pathological phenomena are in SKOKs. Almost PLN 5 billion has already been paid out from the BFG for these institutions. One last question. Why do we guarantee that the Bank Guarantee Fund will be paid out to the acquiring banks, which will still be able to take over the other ones for the gold? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this Zdzich's famous idea? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u271	Thank you, Member. Minister Nowak, I would like a brief written answer to these questions. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3000, along with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -411, against -15, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and compulsory restructuring and some other laws. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on Gambling. Third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3074. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 3074, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 416, against -3, holding down 3. The Sejm passed a bill amending the Act on Gambling. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development for consideration. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 3114, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 178, against - 235, the 15. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred the draft law to the said committees. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Association of Polish Geodets (prints 3133 and 3141). I ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Puda, to speak. [[Voice from the room: Move, move.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of the arguments put forward and the discussion which was quite turbulent at the committee meeting, the committee mostly considered that it was in favour of the proposed provisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u273	Thank you, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution. [[Happy birthday.]] No one's checking in. I would remind you that the committee requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print 3141. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 3141, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 428 against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Association of Polish Geodetics. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: election of a member of the Court of State (prints 3115 and 3125). On the basis of the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Law on the Court of State and Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm should the term of office of a member of the Court of State expire, the Sejm shall make a supplementary choice. Mr Maciej Prostko has been nominated as a member of the Court of State. I ask Mr Tomasz Romekowski to present the candidacy of Mr Maciej Prostko and the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u274	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It has been my honor to present a candidate for Mr Maciej Prostko, a member of the Court of State, who is a graduate of the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn. After finishing his studies, he completed his solicitor's application at the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Warsaw. He is a representative of a young generation of lawyers, a 30-year-old legal adviser who runs his own law firm in Nowy Sącz. He deals with civil and family matters on a daily basis, as well as represents the victims in criminal proceedings. In its professional practice it is not only limited to paid aid but also helps the needy pro publico bono. In addition to legal activities, he also conducts social and local activities. His activity was appreciated in the last local elections in which he was elected as Councillor of Nowy Sącz City Council. The City Council has entrusted him with the role of chairman of the statutory and legal committee. The candidate is also granted to NGOs operating both locally and across the country. He is the President of the Management Board of the Beskidzka Social Initiative which deals with social activities, mainly in the Court of Justice. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Law on the Court of State to the composition of the Court of State may be elected Polish citizens who exercise their full public rights, who are not prosecuted, who are not employed in government authorities. Mr Maciej Prostko meets these requirements. He is a Polish citizen, enjoys full public rights, has never been punished, and there is no disciplinary action against him. Mr. Marshal! I was also privileged to present the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 15 January this year. - almost unanimously, the committee gave a positive opinion on the candidacy of Mr Maciej Prostko. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u275	Thank you, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak on the candidacy? No one's checking in. Let's move on to the vote. According to Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall elect a member of the Court of State by an absolute majority. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of choosing Mr Maciej Prostko as a member of the Court of State, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. It was 406. [[Applause]] Against - 6, with a hold of 16. I state that the Sejm has chosen Mr Maciej Prostko as a member of the Court of State. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economics and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future (prints 3111 and 3128). I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Economics and Development on the Senate's resolution on the Law on the Foundation for the Platform for the Industry of the Future. The Senate has tabled six amendments. On 15 January, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development considered these amendments and recommended that all amendments be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u277	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. In the first amendment to Article. Paragraph 7 2 The Senate proposes a different wording of point 1 and delete paragraph 2. 3. Amendment 5 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. I remind you, the committee is requesting their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 1 and 5, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For one, against 425, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4) of the Senate proposes that the sources of funding for the platform should be: donations, inheritances, records and revenues from public collections. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. It was two against 424, holding on to two. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 The Senate proposes among others. the addition of a reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Against - 426, 2 held back, no one in favor. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 16 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 2a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. In -3, against -413, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes to add a new wording to the article. 29. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 6th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 1 Member was in favour, 421 against, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs (Print No 3154). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this? No one's checking in. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print No 3154 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 407, against - 20, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 3155). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 143 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print No 3155, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For -422, against -3 stopped 5. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 06 hours 16 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on Mutual Assistance Fund in the Stabilisation of Agricultural Incomes (Print No 2802). Mr Marek Sawicki will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats draft law on Mutual Assistance Fund in the Stabilisation of Agricultural Incomes. This is not a new initiative, and we also took it in the previous term. Unfortunately, due to the end of the term of office and the lack of full acceptance by the Ministry of Finance, it was not fully implemented. The bill has its reasons, of course, and I am not going to present it here in detail. However, I will say in general that this is a new form of agricultural income insurance. We are dealing with situations where the crop and animal insurance law does not cover all events. Sometimes these events take place prior to the conclusion of contracts. We often also have situations when farmers sell products to processing plants that are bankrupt for various reasons, and farmers do not receive payment because of their own fault. The problem is that farmers often do not recover this money, even after long legal proceedings. They have no possibility of receiving financial support and are therefore bankrupt. Of course, in Western European countries, where the system of trade union farming organisations is much better developed, mutual assistance funds operate on the basis of self-financing. With us, on the other hand, due to the low level of farmers' organisation, it seems appropriate to use the model of the Act on Promotion Funds, which has proven itself, operates and thanks to which the export of Polish food is constantly growing. In addition to the collected funds from the sale of agricultural products - their own Polish funds - the users of them can also obtain additional support from EU funds and multiply these promotional measures. The principle of functioning of the stabilisation fund would be as follows: 0.1% of all products sold, invoiced, would be paid to it. Their values. The Fund would be administered by the National Agricultural Support Centre and its Director-General. The Fund would have a democratic management committee set up by representative agricultural organisations. It would also have a statute. As far as support for farmers is concerned, it would be appropriate for those whose income has fallen by at least 30% compared to the average over the past 3 or 5 years. If we'd considered five years, we'd have rejected the highest and lowest value. The compensation would not exceed 70% losses. As I said, we would be able to secure in a special way those farmers who, in fact, when selling products in good faith, cannot later obtain payment from failed companies. In addition to this payment of 0,1% from the value of the agricultural products sold, the Act provides for twice the amount paid to the Fund from the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. At this point, of course, there are opinions, allegations that this is public aid. Why the double? In the current crop and animal insurance system, we have the consent of the European Commission to finance a contribution of 65%. It's about the same size. I think even if we need a notification, it shouldn't be a problem. I would also like to stress that, to begin with, this would not be any big, heavy burden on the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. In my opinion, the amount of this aid would not exceed PLN 80 million per year. So we're not talking about some amount that the bank couldn't handle. Perhaps in the future, this will increase the activity of farmers, producers themselves and make it possible to create a really strong mutual income stabilisation fund, which will serve farmers for many years, thanks to good experience with the operation of this fund in the microscale. I ask the High House to forward this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and to proceed calmly over it. Of course, as an applicant's representative, I am open to possible amendments, improvements, changes, because this can certainly still be done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u279	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Robert Telus to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u280	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You have to admit, the purpose of this bill is good. For some time now, we have been thinking about introducing a mechanism that will somehow protect the Polish farmer from falling prices in different markets. We have to start by saying that the purpose of this bill is good. That's what we'd have to work on. But if we go deeper into this bill, we see that there are many solutions in it that can't go through and won't go through because they're not good. I think the proof that this law, as I said, is inadequately prepared is the opinion of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers. The National Council of Agricultural Chambers is the only institution that really has the right to do so - the greatest right, because unions can opinion, and other institutions - in order to give an opinion on projects. Maybe I'll read the opinion that we as Members received from the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, about this bill. The project contains several proposals: support from the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, abolishing the amount of the contribution, setting up one fund and one fund management committee, a 10-person committee. In fact, it is not different from previous draft laws relating to this problem, both parliamentary and government. It is still very vague. According to the agricultural authorities, it lacked clear guidelines that could clearly and honestly support the affected agricultural producers. Therefore, the agricultural government cannot accept the proposed provisions of the Act. In particular, doubts are raised as to the provisions contained in the draft. It is a fund that will be common to all products: milk, cattle, cereals and others. The rate of use of the Fund by producers of the agricultural product in question is not available. No reduction coefficient has been provided. Nor is the basis on which the average buying-in prices of the products will be determined. Fourthly, in the article. 12 Compensation is expected to be paid if income on the holding falls by 30% as a result of a fall in prices to be determined on the basis of invoices, etc. Who is to verify and analyse in detail the profitability of a farmer? And these are the allegations of a bill that was presented by the National Council of Agricultural Chambers. But if we look at the opinion of BAS and the Ministry of Agriculture, everyone says it's public aid. If this is public aid, the project needs to be notified. That's also a charge for this bill. As I said at the outset, if we assume that the goal is good, because it is good, then we need to think about it. We need to find a mechanism that will somehow protect the Polish farmer from these violent declines resulting from various reasons, price comparisons, but not only, resulting from various cataclysms or even the growth of production in a given year. You know, you can work on it, think about it, look for solutions. This bill, which is proposed, is wrong, but we as a club of law and justice believe that we need to discuss it, talk about it. That is why we also believe that this law should go to the committee and that we will look together for a solution in this area, a common solution which will be good for the Polish farmer. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! A similar law is also being prepared in the Ministry. Similar, I mean. with the same purpose. I think that we need to develop a mechanism that will protect our Polish farmer and, consequently, a very important area of the economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft law on the Mutual Assistance Fund for the Stabilisation of Agricultural Income introduces legal solutions to guarantee farmers, to stabilise income from their agricultural activities in two cases. The first case is a significant percentage of the reduction in agricultural income, the second case - the lack of possibility of obtaining payment for the sale of agricultural products from an entity that has become insolvent. This situation has been discussed several times during committee meetings in the previous term. We know the nightmare of farmers trying to get their money back for their products. Unfortunately, there were no appropriate and unambiguously effective legal mechanisms for this action to be enforced. It is therefore proposed to set up a mutual assistance fund and to regulate its financing rules. The Fund will be created, as the applicant has already mentioned, with a contribution of 0,1% the net value of agricultural products purchased by operators buying agricultural products from farmers. From this money will be created a fund and will be paid compensation to agricultural producers, farmers when the statutory criteria are met. The Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre is to be responsible for these measures, because that is why this centre was set up. It is also worth noting that during the previous term of office of the Sejm a similar project was discussed by the committee, and for various reasons it was not completed. The Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition recognises that the project of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats should be examined in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to develop appropriate legal mechanisms to ensure that the risk of reducing farmers' incomes is as small as possible. Minister! We know that the government is preparing a position for this parliamentary bill. If the Minister wanted to share this position, it would be very interesting, all the more so because it would probably be a contribution to what we want to achieve, so to pass this project on to the debate and perhaps together with the government to find mechanisms that are satisfying for food producers. We also understand that today we do not have legal solutions for insurance of agricultural income, and we recognise that such a mechanism should be developed, all the more so that it is expected by the interested parties themselves. We also understand the position of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers regarding this project, but I think that in a direct confrontation many arguments which were included in the position of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers could have been decided differently, otherwise accepted. We also know that the government is preparing its project, the government would like to see that there is only a difference, for today we know, in the name of the bill, because the government proposes that it be a project to protect agricultural income, we are talking about stabilising agricultural income, so semantics is clear. I believe that this knowledge should be shared. Our club's opinion is this, and that is what we are proposing to proceed with this project in committees so that the European Commission can be consulted, as the government will probably be asking for notification of this project. We would also like to know the positions of other agricultural organisations in a direct confrontation with the arguments that will be put forward by the Members of the applicants, as well as by our club and, I think, by the Club of Law and Justice. Much is possible in joint action. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u283	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, made his written statement. I would therefore like to invite you to the speaker of Mirosław Maliszewski, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, to present a position. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u284	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Our club, of course, supports this project, is the author of this project and not only supports it for this reason, but also because agriculture is always at the heart of our political interests, that is natural, that is what we are interested in. At one time we came to the conclusion - the direct initiator of this idea was Jan Łopata, a Lublin Member, and he said that - at many moments the state fails, at many moments the country has no instruments to help the farmer. To such moments as the applicant mentioned, three main, three basic ones can be included. Firstly, some market disturbance that is caused by external factors or internal factors, e.g. overproduction or restriction of the market. We've had such experiences in recent years, such as the Russian embargo. Then farmers' income is shaken because they do not get the price due for selling their products. The second such case is natural disasters when the farmer is deprived of the harvest at all and there is nothing to sell, and it often happens that he was not insured or the insurance system was inefficient and his liquidity is impaired. The third case, which has already been pointed out, is when a farmer sells to an entity on the market and this entity turns out to be either dishonest or bankrupt because of no fault of his own, for other reasons and also the income of the farmer is lost. At such a time, the country very rarely meets the expectations of this farmer, there is simply no mechanism, because our internal conditions do not allow it, or our membership of the European Union and the provisions there, the farmer is left to himself. The idea is to create something of the same kind of self-help between farmers, so that they make up for a special account, a special fund and then finance their farms when they are affected by the crisis. This is a very good solution, because the rate is relatively small, it will not directly burden the farmer's pocket, the owners of these measures are also farmers through their representation. True, it gathers this as a paratax of the National Agricultural Support Centre, but it is the farmers who will really decide what to do with it. It is in these difficult moments that they can reach their pockets, power their budget, so that the farm does not lose its liquidity. The project is indeed not new, it was submitted in the previous term, the author was the Ministry of Agriculture, at the time when the Minister was Mr Marek Sawicki, present representative of the applicants. This project is now under discussion by the High House. The first reading took place in the Parliament hall and was also attended by a committee meeting where we had already had the opportunity to work on this project. At that time, there were indeed voices against this project, but please note that not from the farmers' environment, more from the environment of those entities which, according to the rules, are obliged to pay a contribution to this fund, i.e. recipients of products from farmers, i.e. intermediaries, those who are the next stage, the next link. There was no objection on the part of farmers. I also do not recall the opposite vote of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers. There was some evolution of the opinion of the agricultural chambers that they had presented today a negative opinion, because then the agricultural chambers supported this project. This project is also supported by farmers and agricultural organisations, because it meets their expectations, precisely at these difficult moments. Therefore, for these several reasons the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will support this project. It's a good thing he's in a committee meeting, and it's a good thing he's gonna collide with a government project that doesn't know why he hasn't gone to the High House for three years yet, but we hope he'll be there before the election. I hope it's passed before the election. The answer will be a common, developed provision that will allow, in these difficult situations, at least in these three cases, to hand over to farmers and to propose the funds they themselves will make up for. And the fact that there is a payment from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego is nothing more than the fulfilment of the state's obligations towards this important sector, which is Polish agriculture. I firmly believe that we will work on this project and its final sound will satisfy Polish farmers. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats supports this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u285	Thank you very much, sir. The speech was also made in writing on behalf of the Modern State. Do any of your messengers, or any of your fellow Members, want to go on the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. The questions are started by Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Firstly, I wanted to say that the draft law, i.e. the proposal to establish or set up a Mutual Assistance Fund in the Stabilisation of Agricultural Incomes, is a very interesting and necessary project. It will fill the gap that exists in agriculture at the moment in order to help farmers in events that are not actually foreseen anywhere, there is no provision for any sources of aid. But I have a question about this project. Namely, in the past year, in addition to drought disasters, a tragic situation resulting from grossly low prices for raspberries and apples, and above all raspberries, occurred. There were situations where farmers didn't collect raspberries at all. I'm asking if this fund will support farmers when there are no raspberry supply contracts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u287	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The applicant country represents a formation which has very specific achievements in the field of ownership in the agricultural and agri-food economy over the last few decades. From Stalin's collectiveisation and the creation of PGRs, through their very creative sometimes liquidation, to what the market for food processing looks like today, which is crucial for the economic position of agricultural producers and breeders. And today instead of peasantly roll up your sleeves and how do real folks get on with rebuilding cooperatives, for a consistent reconstruction of farmers' cooperation, so that they can achieve a strong market position, do you propose a fund? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u289	Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To all the skeptics, to the Member who has also just spoken about this fund, this idea, to all those who are talking about illegal state aid, some particular treatment of farmers... And, in particular, to the national and party board, surprisingly... I must say this, we need to publicise this position and I promise President Szmuulewicz that we will. I would like to remind you of another fund, about the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, about the history of this fund - more than twenty years old - very well functioning and very well recorded in the history of ownership transformations. Why am I talking about this? Why am I comparing this? After all, the price of agricultural products should be at least, because it can be different, also pay for work, for the work of this farmer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a common point, it's a thing. Do you share my opinion on this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u291	Thank you. And one last question. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a TV picture in my memory: a very old farmer crying in front of a camera that says, "After the war in one day, they made us kill the whole pig, because the disease, and I feel just like after the war," I have nothing. So insurance and insurance, insurance of agricultural income is necessary. My question, on the other hand, is how many people are currently waiting for compensation. I do not know whether the rapporteur will be able to answer this question, and if not, I will ask for a written reply. How many people in Poland at the moment, how many farmers? It could actually be said that it is the profession of the highest risk, since income is not guaranteed. Like that farmer said, she didn't get any compensation. I'm sure she's already been hit because it was a while ago, but I'd like to know how many people are still waiting for compensation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many people feel like after the war? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u293	Thank you very much. We will begin with the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Rafał Romanowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! The bill's draft... As the honourable Member himself has said, it has already been dealt with several times in the High House for this very purpose, which is to stabilise agricultural income, so it is not subject to any discussion. On the other hand, I would like to explain to the High House some quite important information which has appeared either in Mr Plocke's speech or in the questions asked by individual parliamentarians. Several of these issues have indeed been resolved. First of all, a government project has been prepared. Mr Telus referred to the opinion of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, the agricultural government on the government project, as well as on the parliamentary project - negative. This draft was submitted to the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers and intended for re-consultation. Unfortunately, this project did not receive the approval of agricultural organisations in the course of the re-consultation, except for organisations that process fruit and vegetables. It was the only group of this agri-food sector that was interested in creating such a fund. Since this parliamentary project has been addressed to parliamentary work, it is also an opinion, the government's position on this issue, of course, I am replying to you. Of course, a request has been made to notify such a programme to the European Commission. The fact that this aid, which has been described as aid to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, is public aid, is not subject to any discussion. On the other hand, this is not a major problem, because if the European Commission agrees in the notification, then of course such assistance, such a programme can be implemented, so it is absolutely possible: this proposal has been made, but let us remember one basic thing. The Member even mentioned the issue of agricultural insurance that we have 65%, which is 100% agrees only that by 2016 the budget had a maximum of 200 million, and at the moment there are 800 or more than 800 million for this type of action. The sineoid is just positive, because in this case in fact, the demand for these funds is increasing year by year and this amount is used as a priority with much greater commitment than it was in previous years, because 2018 is almost PLN 600 million, so the difference is really diametric. Another thing, which was very strongly raised here, was the question of guaranteeing farmers, even when it comes to giving up specific raw materials. Let us bear in mind that as a result of the submission of the project by the Government, the High Chamber adopted a contract advantage law which obliges the conclusion of the relevant contracts in order to safeguard the interests of farmers in particular, but also the recipients of products. So another thing was consummated by the High House as regards this bill. Let us also remember that in November 2018. The High House has adopted a law on debt restructuring. I do not hide that we are also working with the Ministry of Finance on a draft regulation that would allow public guarantees, e.g. as regards loans so-called. rolling in the event of natural disasters, which unfortunately occurred in 2018. So, if the government project or the parliamentary project that has been presented to the High House has so far received such negative social opinions, we are gradually trying to resolve this problem in a very decisive way. Therefore, your Marshal, High Izbo, as far as this project is concerned, the government's position is negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u295	Thank you. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Marek Sawicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am surprised at the government's clear response to the negative attitude towards this project, because I rather expected information and support in this action and in resolving this difficult problem, as these laws you mentioned do not fully resolve these issues. I know why some farmers are reluctant to do this project as well as to the promotion funds. However, there is a 0.1% share of agricultural turnover. which still seems to be a large share of the final value of the products. I'm pointing out that's 0.1%. We have the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, which Mr Bopata referred to. There has been 0.1% since the payout and it is created, fulfills its function and there is no social resistance in this case. I mentioned that in countries where there is a higher level of organisation of farmers, the occupation of farmers in the sense of setting up trade union organisations, such funds operate on the basis of full funding from farmers' contributions. And they guarantee themselves, they stabilize, so to speak, income. This is primarily about situations where companies fall, and unfortunately the farmer remains alone and powerless. So I think these cases are worth solving as part of this project. There is also the issue of abnormally low prices. The Act provides that in situations where we have abnormally low prices, the Fund may enter, but the condition for using the funds of this Fund is to include farmers in the system of keeping income records, because on some basis, whether it is a period of 3 years or a period of 5 years, the farmer will have to show that he actually has a decrease in income of at least 30%. I think that sooner or later we will have to resolve the issue of income records in agriculture. Bend over together. To be honest, I'm a little embarrassed for Mr Pyzik because he made a political statement and ran away. I wonder, as I remember quite far, whether Mr Pyzik was sometimes a member of AWS. Let him take the list on privatisation of agri-food processing, but above all the banking system in Poland. In 1998, when AWS started governing, the foreign sector's share of banks did not exceed 16% After 4 years the share of foreign capital in Polish banks in Poland exceeded 60%. So, if Mr Pyzik is hitting historical tones, let him strike his own breasts first. Thank you again for this interesting discussion. I think that the question of how many people are waiting for compensation - I hope - the Minister will reply in writing, and he will prepare this information for us, because I am convinced that those who have submitted applications have already received these compensations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke has submitted a request for correction. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u298	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! You misunderstood the intention of my speech. Namely, the point is that it cannot be the basis of government activities, the construction of various projects the position of agricultural organizations as a certainty. On the other hand, we recognize that the government is responsible for making a rational, cost-effective public spending. It can't be what it's been like over the last few years. Nor did we succeed in the fact that when there is a crop failure or there are different situations in the market, we launch government programs and pay appropriate compensation to farmers. The intention of this project is to stabilise the situation on agricultural markets when there are price cuts, when there are natural disasters, when there are different kinds of embargoes imposed on Poland by other countries. This is the intention I share with the Minister. The point is that this is the thinking that is going to lead us to the right solutions for the future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u299	Would you like to refer to the Minister again? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: In three words.]] Okay, in three words. Here you go, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr. Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! As for the negative position of the government, this does not mean that the government will not participate in parliamentary work. If the High House directs this bill to parliamentary work in committee, then of course the government party will participate in it as much as possible. I do not hide that, if we receive notification for this programme, for the part which Mr Maliszewski is probably most interested in, i.e. with regard to fruit and vegetables, we will, of course, create a stabilisation fund which will receive the full approval of these organisations. On the other hand, Mr Plocke, I have understood your sincere intentions as much as possible and I do not discuss them with sincere intentions. Such a stabilisation fund should appear. But to get back to the issue of this project... You know perfectly well - ministers have 8 years of experience, I may be learning - that if the project does not obtain approval in the context of a public consultation, then if we were to direct it to a permanent committee and then the Council of Ministers, we would, to be honest, do so against the will of this part, whose role is very strongly highlighted in the legislative process. So, please accept this as an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u301	Thank you very much. After that, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u302	The draft law on the Mutual Assistance Fund for the Stabilisation of Agricultural Income consists of two substantive parts. The first covers compensation for the reduction of income on the holding. The second includes the guarantee of payment for agricultural crops to farmers in the event of bankruptcy of the purchaser. Due to the size of the agricultural production market, as well as the high instability of this production, the possibility of effectively compensating for the reduction of incomes on the farm is very difficult. Marketing of agricultural products this is about PLN 100 billion, i.e. revenue for the fund is indicatively PLN 100 million per year. Expanded by grants from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego by another indicative PLN 200 million, totaling 300 million. This is a sum that will not be effective enough to stabilise farmers' incomes. In practice, there may be conflicts between different agricultural production departments. Unfortunately, too many factors affect the instability of farmers' incomes so that payments from the fund can offset the effects of income reduction. In this form of the project, the fund may become an institution with considerable resources, but in conflict with these measures, without real impact. It would be necessary to clarify the order and conditions for obtaining assistance from the Fund, in short, the rates of use of the Fund, in terms of inter alia. individual segments of agricultural production, as well as in the event of shortages of funds from the Fund. It is much more important to stabilise prices and set minimum reference prices, and this could be done by a team following a social dialogue committee consisting of representatives of agricultural producers, representatives of processors and a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition, the rules of the common agricultural policy set a limit on State aid, so-called "aid'. de minimis, and part of the funds derived from the grant from the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego could be considered as such by reducing the possibilities of support from the State budget for agriculture. The second pillar of the project, i.e. compensation for the bankruptcy of purchasers (other than the recipients of the raw material) and the non-payment of the related charges, should be assessed in a completely different way. This idea can be a real, effective safeguard for agricultural producers. Good experience with the Bank Guarantee Fund and the Labour Fund suggests that the mutual assistance fund in the area of guarantees would have a positive effect. In addition, a small percentage of bankrupt customers in relation to the size of the market ensures that small contributions, which do not have a significant impact on profitability, will result in satisfactory compensation. The premiums are to be charged to purchasers and not suppliers, which may in some cases result in lower payments to farmers. In addition, a warning system would be needed against dishonest recipients (maybe something like a KNF alert list). The solutions proposed in this project should be revised and clarified. It is worth working on, because the need to set up an agricultural income stabilisation fund has been mentioned for years, and farmers' work is undoubtedly at high risk of price fluctuations in agricultural products and generally accompanying agricultural production. Therefore, the Modern Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of directing the project to work in committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u303	Dear Minister, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law on the Mutual Assistance Fund for the Stabilisation of Agricultural Incomes. For years, Polish agriculture has been in crisis. The result is a number of farmers protests caused by drastically increasing costs of production resources, while the price of agricultural fetuses is being lowered at the same time, accompanied by a systematic reduction in the agricultural budget. The ASF issue remains unresolved, which will soon lead to the cessation of pig farming on family farms. For years, successive governments have ensured that every year is better. Unfortunately, we can only see the improvement in the profitability of agricultural production on paper for the time being. We are constantly informed about how much money the government spends annually on agriculture, and about the calculation of CSOs, which shows that average income from 1 ha in the last 2 years has increased by 1500 PLN. If it is so good, then why have the number of farms been falling in proportion to the peans of the next teams in charge of how much good they have done for Polish agriculture for years? The next allowance will not change anything, and farmers are also aware of it. I understand that we have the election year and the PSL, pretending to act, trying to build his image as a defender of the Polish village. Unfortunately, PSL shows itself after 3 years with an extremely poor project, replicating the solutions proposed already in the previous term. It's not enough for farmers to fall for it. PSL proposes another fund to improve the situation in agriculture. The mechanism is known to us, and we already have a similar one in nine agri-food promotion funds. We are therefore collecting payments from all farmers - because I have no delusions that buyers will pass this new tribute on to farmers - and then we pay to those who have a better deal with the authorities. I cannot say that the idea, at least in general assumptions, is good, and the closer the specific rules are, the worse. These are, for example, issues that the agricultural government has also pointed out: What if the fund lacks funds? Will the deadline for the impact of the proposal be decisive? Who will be responsible for detailed verification and analysis of the profitability of the farmer concerned? Next: What will the Fund's operating costs be and will they not be a significant part of the funds raised by the Fund? Another issue is the lack of clear analyses and calculations. How many farmers per year are affected by income losses above 30%? How many farmers have trouble getting paid for the products they sell? Would all these farmers get money from the fund? And above all, how much money are we talking about? Wouldn't that be a drop in the sea of needs? By the way, I have no idea why PSL still insists on the theory that the creation of another fund is a recipe for healing the Polish village, while knowing what pathology is sometimes caused by the distribution of funds from promotion funds. In conclusion, I would like to express my clear objection to the solutions proposed in this project, while asking for real and not apparent cooperation in favour of the Polish village, to stabilise agricultural income, in particular - to unlock a dozen agricultural projects by Kukiz'15, frozen for long months.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u304	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on Mutual Assistance Fund for the Stabilisation of Agricultural Incomes to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection, Marshal, only to the Agriculture Commission.]] In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the opposition in the next block of votes. [[Voice from the room: Two weeks from now?]] [[Voice from the room: In a month.]] Looks like it'll be four weeks from now, sir, but we'll see about that next week. So far, there are no plans for next week, so it's about the next meeting that's scheduled. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 76th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. So I close the list. We begin making statements from Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. [[I was supposed to be third.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns the project of the National Regional Development Strategy. The national regional development strategy submitted to the public consultation is defined, among others. areas at risk of permanent marginalisation and medium-sized cities losing socio-economic functions. These areas will be supported under development policy priorities. This case was raised, among others. 107 local governments - signatories to the Sudeta 2030 Agreement and the Sudeten Declaration. Members from Lower Silesia also supported these efforts. Lower Silesia develops unevenly. The indicators of GDP per capita, investment expenditure, unemployment and migration show how different the standard of living and economic development of the individual sub-regions of Lower Silesia are. The Lower Silesia region will receive less financial support from the budget of the European Union between 2021 and 2027. This is directly due to the overshoot of 75% the average GDP per capita of the European Union. At the same time, this indicator in the Sudeten subregions is significantly lower and is 55% for the Jelenia Góra subregion average GDP per capita of the European Union and 50% for the Wałbrzych subregion. Without additional support for weaker sub-regions from the government of the Republic of Poland expressed in special programmes and financial instruments, not only will the objectives of the sustainable development policy of Lower Silesia not only fail to be achieved, but differences between sub-regions will deepen. This applies especially to subregions located in the south of the voivodship, i.e. the subregions of Jeleniogórski and Wałbrzych. There are disadvantages in these areas, such as the exclusion of communications, the degradation of post-industrial areas, the numerous quarters of the housing substance requiring urgent modernisation and increased unemployment. In the Sudecki area there is a lack of network of good quality roads, good railway connections, and even it happens that PKP disables further sections, such as the merger of Jelenia Góra - Lwówek Śląski, which is sensitive in terms of better communication, for the inhabitants of the Lviv district. Unfortunately, the Jeleniogórski and Wałbrzych subregions were not qualified for the trans-regional 2020+ programme aimed at the most economically weak areas. In the name of the inhabitants, I ask: Why? They fulfil all the conditions for such status. The Ministry of Investment and Development admits that in the Dolnośląskie voivodship in a group of medium-sized cities with a strong accumulation of socio-economic problems and the risk of loss of socio-economic and administrative functions are located, among others. such cities as Jelenia Góra, Kamienna Góra, Wałbrzych, Jawor, Złotoryja, Zgorzelec, Luban and many others. In my view, but above all in the opinion of local authorities and residents, it is necessary to correct the criteria for identifying areas at risk of permanent marginalisation, so that the sudden subregions are covered by this programme. I believe that the government will correct the draft National Regional Development Strategy in a way that guarantees real development - socially sensitive and territorially balanced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u306	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Robert Majka, a non-member, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u307	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Honestly, I'm speaking in an empty room. I will remind you of my words of 28 December 2018: No constitutional principle deserves to be respected more than the principle of freedom of thought. This is not about giving it to those who agree with us, but about giving it to those whose views we hate. This very important maxim, as regards freedom of speech, was said by the Supreme Court judge in the United States in 1928. Oliver Wendell Holmes. Ladies and gentlemen, why am I talking about this? I submitted a request to the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media on 11 December 2018, chaired by Mrs Elizabeth Raven of Law and Justice. It is a matter of non-compliance in Poland. 54 of the 1997 Constitution, as well as Article. Ten press laws. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members and Dear Members, Unfortunately, President Raven felt that this was not a formal proposal. Ladies and gentlemen - Mr President - I have provided a legal basis which is not respected. According to President Raven, this is not a formal proposal. It makes me wonder. And now I am moving on to an equally important matter, namely to my proposal to the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister on trade in Polish children. In my opinion, this is a shameful matter that Mr Paweł Bednarz has been discussing for many years. At this point, I wanted to refer to my interpellation on this issue on 11 January 2019. This is my interpellation on child trafficking. I also look forward to the position of the President, Dr. Andrzej Duda. And last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, extremely appalling. I was at a meeting today, such a conference of environments that deal with the issue of trade in Polish children, where Mr Paweł Bednarz introduced a girl named Adrianna Świętosławska and who can be taken to the adoption of a foreign marriage to Paweł Świętosławski and Agnieszka Świętosławska. The meeting was also attended by Damian Dębski from Częstochowa, 14. Till tears were in my eyes when I saw these children as my own. Let us not allow Polish children to be exposed to illegal foreign adoption. For my part, ladies and gentlemen, what I can do is I'm doing it. And another point that I wanted to raise -- I am running out of time -- this is a proposal to the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and Human Rights. I demand that Mr Ryszard Jach from Warsaw, as well as in his presence, the President of the Court of State and the first President of the Supreme Court, Prof. Małgorzata Gersdorf, be heard before this committee. And the last point is my proposal to President Iwona Arent of the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. My motion of 11 December speaks of the constitutional delicacy committed by the current President of the Republic of Poland, Dr. Andrzej Duda, as well as the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra, because they did not notify it and Minister Ziobro did not initiate proceedings against Mrs Gersdorf. I'm running out of time. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Marshal, for giving me the floor. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u308	Thank you. A further statement will be made by Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u309	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement concerns already mentioned, or actually more completed, consultations on the National Regional Development Strategy. Last Monday such consultations took place at the marshal's office in Wroclaw. We visited Minister Jerzy Kwieciński at the time. The Minister pointed out and accentuated very strongly new tracks and new orientations in this project, which primarily involves socially sensitive and territorially sustainable development. Priority should be given to areas at risk of permanent marginalisation and medium-sized cities losing their socio-economic functions. The sudecka declaration, under the name "Sudeta 2030 Development Strategy," signed by 107 local governments of the South and Lower Silesia. It is these self-governments who perfectly experience, on their example, how unevenly Dolny Śląsk is developing. They're the ones who are struggling, for example. with the communication exclusion of the Sudeten regions. There is a lack of network of good quality roads, the development of railway infrastructure or huge expenditures on the modernisation of buildings. These cities and municipalities are fully aware that without additional government support, the objective of real and sustainable economic development of the south and west of Lower Silesia will not be achieved. However, the Wałbrzych sub-regions and the already mentioned jeleniogórski were not qualified for the 2020+ programme, which is aimed precisely at the most economically vulnerable areas, and unfortunately there is a concern that they will consequently be deprived of the additional funding needed for their further development. During the meeting in Wrocław, but also in all the writings that are addressed to Minister Kwieciński or were directed earlier, the president of the city of Wałbrzych as the leader of the Wałbrzych agglomeration presented comments. He also presented them at the meeting in Wrocław and showed how to change the criteria for identifying areas at risk of permanent marginalisation, so that the 2020+ programme referred to in the draft National Development Strategy will also cover the subregions Wałbrzych and Jeleniogórski. And I think we have absolutely the right to ask, to wait, but also to receive government support. Because not as long ago as September and October Ub. Our city and our region were visited by a huge number of ministers, vice-ministers led by Prime Minister Morawiecki. The Prime Minister and individual ministers have shown themselves, to our right joy, excellent knowledge, knowledge of the problems facing the south and the west of Lower Silesia, but also individual municipalities and cities from this area. And that was important to us, very important - this knowledge and this empathy they've just shown. But the most important thing is that there were very concrete promises and declarations of support at the time from the Prime Minister and individual ministers. Therefore, we ask the Prime Minister now, today, that these declarations be fulfilled and that we, as sub-regions, be included and included in the programme. Prime Minister, we are asking you to support us in these efforts that 107 local governments have made around the Sudeten Declaration, and we are asking because you have promised us this publicly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u310	Thank you. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice, will make another statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days we celebrated the 125th anniversary of St. Maximilian Maria Kolbe, Rajmund Kolbe. St. Maximilian Maria Kolbe was born on January 8, 1894 in Zduńska Wola. Originally, he and his parents Juliusz and Marianna and his siblings lived in the city at ul. Brewery. Then the family moved for economic reasons to Łódź and Pabianice, where young Rajmund decided to join the Franciscan Order. He made everlasting vows in November 1914, taking the name Mary. In 1917 he and his fellow brothers founded the Knights of the Immaculate Knights, and since 1922 he began to publish the monthly Knight of the Immaculate Knight. In the 30s of the 20th century, he served as a missionary in Japan. After returning to his homeland, he worked as a pastor and publisher. On 28 May 1941, he was sent to a concentration camp in Auschwitz, where he received the camp number 16670. During the appeal in the camp on 29 July 1941, he voluntarily chose to starve in exchange for his convicted fellow prisoner Franciszek Gajowniczka. Father Kolbe died on 14 August 1941 with an injection of phenol as the last of the prisoners locked up in a starvation bunker. The body of St. Maximilian was burned in the crematorium furnace of Auschwitz. On the 125th anniversary of St. Maximilian Maria Kolbe celebrated a festive Mass in the church of St. The Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Zduńska Wola - the place of holy baptism, presided over by Fr. Archbishop Marian Gołębiewski. St. Maximilian Kolbe is the patron of the city of Zduńska Wola and the whole district of Zduńskowolski. The martyrdom and heroic death of St. Maximilian is the accident of his entire life, which was devoted to the service of God, his homeland and people. In the year 125th anniversary of the Holy Birth, we should by all means present Maximilian Kolby as a model of heroism and brotherly love, especially among young generations of Poles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u312	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition to make a final statement today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement will concern the Polish University of Foreign Affairs. I'm not going to tell his story because it's not so important, even though we have respect and appreciation for it, it's the present and even more the future. The university will be celebrating its 80th anniversary next year. At the time when he was founded by the President of Poland in a foreign country, he had a great task to accomplish, because a large group of Poles, soldiers of Anders, soldiers from France who moved to London after the surrender of France, needed institutions where she could learn. At that time, this school was extremely important. She had her subsidiaries in Chicago, Munich, Paris. Then there was a time of stagnation, and finally even, I would say, forgetfulness, as if Poland had forgotten about this university, as if she did not need support. But there came a new time, a time of great economic boom or those who left Poland for Great Britain, almost 2 million people, i.e. About 400,000. Kids right now. And this university should be reactivated again and act as needed. What's the need? The need is at least two and the university submitted two applications to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education a year ago to appoint two Bachelors. The first one is learning Polish - it is such a study for teachers who will teach Polish language. At the moment, a minimum percentage of children, maybe 10, maybe 20,000. children, attend Polish language classes, and there are nearly 400,000 of them, so the need is much greater. Why is this happening? For a lot of reasons. Teachers of Polish language are people who are extremely overworked, working two jobs, usually professionally and socially as teachers of Polish language. They need modern methodical bases very much. That's what PUNO should teach. Why should we teach the language? Because it's the only such perfect anchor. If we want Poles, who for various reasons have left, to feel Poles, we need to make sure that they know the Polish language. Those who lose their language lose their national identity, and it is the government that says that teaching Polish is the most important thing. Thus, the appeal, a huge appeal not to forget about PUNO, to think about how we can help, so that when it comes to this course of study, Poles who want to be Polish teachers can gain a bachelor's degree in this field. There is a second course in which the application is already submitted to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. It's the psychology department. A lot of Poles work in social services. They will work more professionally, they will be better rewarded if they have a degree in higher education, undergraduate studies. What, then, must we do? It is simply necessary to prepare a structural solution and this should be prepared by one ministry, perhaps by two. There were discussions at the committee meeting that maybe the Ministry of Science and Higher Education and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage together should prepare a special law for this university, which has already played a huge role in the life of Poland, but also Poland, because that is the goal: serving... English scientists of Polish origin, feeling Poles, serve in a very diverse field of Poland in the field of science, in the field of education. So my statement is such an appeal, such a cry that these conversations and arrangements should not continue. Finally, decisions must be made, political decisions must be made, so that this university can find the right dimension and the right money. That's what this statement is for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-17-sejm-76-2.u314	Thank you, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. who regularly give blood to those in need of this most valuable medicine called the gift of life. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 76th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 77th session of the Sejm, appointed on 20, 21 and 22 February 2019, will be delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 17 min 33]]
