ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u1	I open the eighty-first sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. High Senate, I inform you that on 22 March 2019 the President of the Polish Language Council gave the Senate a report on the status of Polish language protection for the years 2016 and 2017. It is included in print number 1135. I sent this document to the Committee on Culture and Media and the committee on 7 May this year. She took note of the report and informed me of it. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its eighty-second meeting on 13 June 2019, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Law on the Departments of Government Administration; to the Act on the execution of business activities in the field of the production and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police goods and technology; to the Act on the amendment of the Act on National Property Resources and some other laws, and most of the amendments submitted by the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Criminal Code and some other laws. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the seventy-sixth meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 70th and 70th Senate sitting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider items from the first to the ninth draft agenda, although the prints to those items were delivered at a later date than those referred to in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of examination of point eight, i.e. the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws and consider this point as the fourth point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the labeling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms. and consider this item as item 8 of the agenda, after the amendment of the Act on agri-food promotion funds. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? You're welcome, Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I allow myself, for the second time, to ask the High House to supplement the Senate agenda with a point on examining the report of the Joint Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on changes in the codes: family and caring, civil and criminal. As you know, this initiative was the result of a petition submitted by many people, Polish citizens, and already last year it was positively considered by the joint committees. The issue of the family situation, which is very close to all of us, the senators, especially those on the right, requires that, in compliance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the recommendations of various kinds of bodies, from the UN to the European Union, but also in view of our concern for bringing up children together, these actions, especially in the face of the end of the Senate term of office. To conclude, Mr Marshal, at the same time I would like to point out that we are obliged to respond to the petition actually three months after it was filed. Today is the year and there are no obstacles, there are no frictions and tensions to settle this initiative, which, moreover, the marshal is also informed by those who write to you, in quite large numbers, asking for consideration. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u3	I don't know how the senator knows they're writing, but I'm leaving it... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. I put the senator's motion to the vote. Who's in favour? [[But I'm sorry.]] Yeah, but it's already been reported... [[Mr. Marshal, your decision to vote on a motion that citizens have constitutional rights and...]] But... I'm taking your... [[...a set-up to get an answer. It's against the law.]] I'm gonna take your vote. Mr. Senator, please don't speak when you're not asked to. This is what the Senate culture requires. Thank you very much. There's a request. We're voting. And I'm not the one making the decision. The High House is the one making the decision. Who's in favour of Senator Rulewski's motion? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 17 for, 54 against. [[Voting No 1]] The senator's motion was rejected. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the eighty-first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that in the absence of legislative proposals to the first point, the second reading of the draft resolution on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union will take place immediately after its consideration. If legislative proposals are tabled, the vote will be held after the end of the session and after the committee's report on the matter has been prepared. We will proceed to the vote on the election of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate immediately after considering this point, the first point concerning the resolution on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union. Dear Senators, please listen to the speech of the President of the Republic of Lithuania Seimas, Mr Viktor Pranceckitis. [[The appearance is displayed on the board]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen! An act of the Lublin Union is a testimony to the unique political agreement of 2 countries reached through negotiations, arguments and democracy. This agreement brought the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania together in a society based on security and democracy. The solutions contained in the Lublin Union, based on the multicultural and multi-national tradition of the Jagiellonian monarchy, were innovative and built one of the most powerful countries on the continent. The Lublin Union gave Europe the first written constitution, the Constitution on 3 May, so the four hundred and fiftyth anniversary of the Lublin Union, as a precursor of the Treaties of the European Union, is an excellent witness to the unity that unites us in a common country and ensures prosperity and prosperity for many generations. I greet you for this holiday of our history and our citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u5	Thank you very much. The draft resolution under consideration was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print no. 1212. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs, was included on the agenda without first reading. I would ask the authorised representative of the applicants, Senator Alexander Swede, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Lublin Union is one of the brightest rays in Polish history, because it stated again that not by invasions, not by partitions, but by mutual friendship the Polish state expanded and strengthened, combining equals and frees with frees, so our excellent scholar, Prof. Feliks Koneczny, emphasized the importance of the act concluded on 1 July 1569 in Lublin. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am honored on behalf of the 18 senators' group, under Article. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, present a resolution to the High House on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union. We discussed the four hundred and fiftyth anniversary of the establishment of the Lublin Union last year in the High House when we adopted a resolution on the establishment of the current year, 2019, the Year of the Lublin Union. In the resolution prepared by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, presenting on the one hand the genesis and, on the other hand, the importance of the conclusion of the union, it was written: As a result of this act of international law, the previous staff union between the Kingdom of the Crown of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, formed on the foundation of the Union in Blood of 1385 and the Union in Horodle of 1413, was transformed into a real union. As a result, the Federation State was often referred to as the Republic of both Nations... [[Voices from the hall: Louder!]] [[I didn't turn off the microphone.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] As a result, the Federation State was often referred to as the Republic of both Nations. During the session of the General Seym in 1569, King Zygmunt II August transferred the hereditary rights of the Jagiellons to the Lithuanian throne to the Crown. As a result of the provisions of the Lublin Union, the joint monarch became king of Poland and a great Lithuanian prince. There were also crests, parliament, currency, foreign and defence policies, while separate offices and dignitys remained for both entities, having the same competence in both countries, as well as for the military and the judiciary. The Lublin Union is a wonderful witness to the wisdom and foresight of the elites of that time, which form a powerful Federation state together. A multi-national, multi-ethnic, multicultural and multi-religious social structure was created, which was characterised by tolerance and peaceful coexistence against the realities of Europe at the time. The Republic of both Nations has become a bridge between western and eastern Europe. The Lublin Union, this peaceful act of light political will and very advanced treaty and legal thought, contained in a spirit of mutual respect for peoples and cultures, good neighbourhood and non-aggressive coexistence, is a great legacy and contribution to the history of modern Europe. Prof. Władysław Konopczyński also wrote about the importance of this event: It happened as desired by hundreds of thousands, with only a handful of privileged ones and their pride. It had to be felt, and in the isolated Polock and in Smolensk, and in the capitals of all countries, that there was not a slight administrative change here, but an act of great historical significance. At this point, Allow me to present to the High House a draft of this resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union. Senate of the Republic of Poland, stating that 450 years ago an act of union of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Kingdom of Poland was signed at the General Seym in Lublin. The Union was adopted on 28 June and signed on 1 July 1569, finally ratified by King Sigmund August on 4 July 1569; stressing that the Polish-Lithuanian Union was one of the most important events of the century throughout Europe. The Act established a link between the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, thus enabling the birth of a unique system of statehood in Europe; Recognizing that the Lublin Union has survived for more than 200 years, it has only been destroyed by the combined forces of three invaders. The act of the Union was evidence not only of the practical implementation of the Renaissance era, but also of innovative legal thought and of the political maturity of the political elites of both countries. A multi-national and multi-religious community, built on republican values, the idea of tolerance, political negotiations and mutual respect, was established at the Lublin Seym. The Republic of both Nations has become a bridge between the East and the West, a stronghold of democracy and the true Antemurale Christianitatis; hopes that the traditions of shaping the political identity and parliamentary culture of the citizens of the former Republic of Poland of both Nations will take their place in the history of parliamentarians of Lithuania and Poland. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. At the same time, I inform you that the draft resolution has been agreed with all clubs and senate circles in accordance with the article. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Six Senate Rules of Procedure. The resolution in this form has already been adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Sejm of the Republic of Lithuania. Therefore, I ask the High House to adopt a draft resolution on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union, contained in print no. 1212. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u7	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. Senators can now report... [[Voice from the O.R.: We can't hear...]] [[Voice from the room: Louder!]] What happened? Senators can now report... [[Something's wrong with acoustics...]] At present, the senators... Yeah, I can't hear you. Senators can now report... [[Voice from the courtroom: How about a technical recess for the marshal?]] [[Voice from the room: But you can hear it now.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, you can hear me.]] Can you hear me? But I don't know if it's recording, and it has to be recording. We need to check it out. In that case, I'm declaring a recess until 9:25 a.m. Technical break to 9.25. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 18 to 9 minutes 25]] I'm reopening the session. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers, I don't hear any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is registered. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is a very good initiative that together in our parliaments, i.e. both in the Lithuanian Seimas and in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, we should adopt one-sounding text. This is a very good initiative. I will merely remind you, as Senator Swed mentioned, that in December we established 2019 as the Year of the Lublin Union, because it is equal to 450 years since this event. I will also remind you that on June 30th, i.e. the next Sunday, there will be important celebrations in Lublin, because it will be the exact anniversary of these events from 450 years ago. And, of course, I encourage all senators to participate - we have received invitations - any one of them who can participate in this important event. But there wouldn't be a Lublin Union if it weren't for a few earlier, important from the point of view of the history of the law and the history of political doctrines, treaty acts. Well, the Lublin Union was the seal of the events of Blood, from 1385. It was a form of marriage agreement between Queen Jadwiga and the Lithuanian prince Władysław Jagiełła. Later, in 1413, the famous Horodelian Union, which, in European treaty thought, is highly placed as a model for building, in modern language, in mutual respect for the subjectivity of the political players, states. And this horodelska agreement was the basis for building a common Polish-Lithuanian state, and the Lublin Union was, as it were, an act placing a dot over the Polish-Lithuanian permanent alliance. And, of course, it was connected with the realities of dynastic politics at that time - in the situation of the childlessness of King Stanislaus Augustus, it was to secure for the future the relationship of both our nations. The fact that it was a major event not only for Lithuania, but also for the whole of Europe, is known. This has become permanent in the history of modern Europe. The Lublin Union was important for political history, for the history of European culture and civilization in modern times. Interestingly, as a result of the union, a multinational, multi-ethnic, multi-religious, multicultural state was created, which was a phenomenon in relation to the then Europe, which at the turn of the 16th and 17th centuries was plunged into religious wars, for example, connected with the Reformation. Poland's way through this stage of Europe's history was, you can say, unique, especially in the sense that there were no conflicts with us in terms of religious, ethnic or cultural differences. I am speaking basically because Poland was, in the reality of then Europe, a country of tolerance and discussion. Representatives of other religions sat, among others. among our predecessors, i.e. in the Senate of the then Republic of Poland, as well as in the benches of Members. It is also worth noting the importance of the Lublin Union, which undoubtedly played an important role in the history of neighbouring countries such as Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine, and Russia, for example, in the sense that it was a consequence of the situation of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Russian-Lithuanian war at that time and the threat posed by Ivan IV's policy of the Terrible, which gathered the Russian lands and simply carried out intense warfare against Lithuania. Poland, of course, supported Lithuania in this war. So we see that the significance of this act was remarkable. It is very good that not only do we have the Year of the Lublin Union, but also with a special resolution referring directly to the event itself, the Senate of the Republic of Poland will celebrate an important anniversary and testify to the importance of reading history in the present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's resolution is indeed a very good initiative, which highlights the great fact in our history. The signing of the Lublin Union in 1569. Of course, from a historian's point of view, I could be here for hours to consider various issues relating to the Union, but don't worry, because this is not the place for lectures. However, I would like to propose that we reflect on a few issues that are important to us today and come from the history of that time. The first issue, of course, is relative, to be clear. It's an exceptional voluntary arrangement. Relative, because, of course, some of the Lithuanian nobles recognized the inclusion in the government doctrine of the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland as giving up some kind of undemocratic privilege, which in some way amounted to more than the rest of the nobles of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. However, the coroners managed to tame the ambitions of the Lithuanian families and thus the Grand Duchy of Lithuania entered the path of relatively voluntary adoption of a system of democracy, based on a very important value, which, as it turned out, for 250 years, and also today, how much did it take to make this a reality? It was the most important thing. This value is freedom, freedom as clearly the most important hallmark of the system and the Republic. It's worth saying that also those who have been incorporated... This was preceded by an act of the Lublin Union. Kiev's land became part of the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland and was separated from the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. And it is worth noting that the Kiev land has also maintained autonomous, very far-reaching privileges for the Russian families there, who voluntarily entered the way of incorporation into the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland, and not on the way of the Federation like the rest of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. It is worth reminding that also other lands, e.g. Royal Prussia remained largely different from its authentic development, as did Inflanty. Similarly, I do not want to say that the mutual independence, but based on the freedom of diversity between Wielkopolska and Małopolska within the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland, has been a very long time. Freedom was understood as the right to a diverse, though one-way development of relations between the lands of the future, one of the incorporated Republic. And here's the second aspect, very important. The Lublin Union is a stage, ladies and gentlemen. We're celebrating this anniversary. That's right. But remember, this is a stage. I am speaking to a large extent because there was a very wise, very beautiful voice from the Lithuanian State. Not in our resolution, but it was there that the end of the Lublin Union was the Constitution on 3 May, a constitution which breaks up with the Lublin Union and creates no longer a federation state, only a united state. And again, this idea is based on freedom. It was not in 1570 that the Constitution was established on 3 May, but after many, many, many decades and centuries, when both organisms and people living there realized that there is greater value in unity than there is in maintaining this diversity. This is the idea of freedom, very beautifully introduced by Poles to Central Europe. It is worth learning and understanding this freedom from our noble ancestors. It must be admitted that it was based on incredible patience, which we today, today, are insanely lacking. And the last point, that is, when this union, developing from Blood, through Lublin, to the Constitution, ended on 3 May. Today we know that the Lithuanian and Polish and Belarusian countries have a completely different history It has a lot of distinctness, not just that connection to that history. Well, as you know, for the last time... And it was again done by us, the coroners, but it was also understood in the territory of the former Grand Duchy of Lithuania. For the last time, in a beautiful and unambiguous way, this unity, this path of unity, was recalled during the January Uprising. This is the moment when the National Government creates a sign of national common existence: Eagle, Pogoń and Michał Archangel. As it turned out, this sign of a future united state had already drifted away from the socio-national and economic changes that in the 19th century caused these nations to take different paths. But even then the awareness of the Polish elites was such that the January Uprising was referring to this heritage, which involves voluntary acceptance of patiently, slowly, in democracy, in freedom, as part of reaching the positions of a single state based on such an important value as freedom, which turns out to be more attractive than anything else, which would break this path to unity. And why is that worth emphasizing today? Because today, how often we refer to the January Uprising as the heritage from which we grow up, which through World War I, through regaining independence, through successive generations, has established us as we are. So it's worth prolonging this process of consciousness, reaching into the Lublin Union and realizing how much that heritage is in us. Let's hope there's as much as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. And now Senator Bogdan Klich will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! History is one big process and consists of phenomena which are very difficult to attribute to the beginning and end, because they are of a continuous nature. But it is always our expectation that such moments will be distinguished in this process, which are turning points, such specific milestones on the path of the development of our country and our society, and it seems to be Actually, I'm pretty sure about that. The Lublin Union is one of such fundamental milestones in Poland's history, comparable to what was the adoption of Christianity in 966, regaining independence in 1918 or finally regaining sovereignty after 1989. These are indeed such turning points, according to which you can actually set watches at zero hour and count new epochs in the history of our nation. And it is good that we remember them, it is good that we pay tribute to all those who were founding fathers in the context of these events, also in the context of the Lublin Union. Of course, we remember that the process of approaching the Polish element and the Lithuanian-Ukrainian element began much earlier, because it began during the union already mentioned here in Krew, and then there was the Horodel union. Combining these elements was a natural process, but the moment of signing the act of the Lublin Union But it's a breakthrough moment. However, this is the moment when the Republic of both Nations was created, which was a state model at that time not only because of the noble democracy, which then dominated the state system, but also because it was an open state, based on the principles of tolerance, because otherwise it cannot exist when different national, religious and social elements must coexist. And such a model of the Republic of both Nations remains probably to this day. The President of Lithuanian Seimasu is very pleased with the speech we have heard. Despite the numerous criticisms of Lithuanian historians about the Lublin Union today, Lithuanian politicians, with their president's mouth, take this position. Therefore, the joint anniversary celebrations of 1569 should also be the starting point for dealing with those matters on the Lithuanian side which are still unfinished and for which we are still waiting. I am talking about the spelling of Polish names, I am talking about teaching in Polish, I am talking about the spelling of places and streets in localities, which are mostly inhabited by Poles. Nevertheless, this is an important moment, because here are the two parliaments, the Lithuanian Parliament and the Polish Parliament, adopting the one-sounding text of the resolution commemorating such a great historical event, which is the signing of an act of the Lublin Union. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We are voting on the draft resolution on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union. Who among the senators and senators is in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union. We proceed with the second agenda: the election of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. High Izbo, I inform you that Senator Mark Pęk has been nominated as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. The request for this is in print No 1210. I ask Senator Marek Martynowski to present the candidacy of Senator Marek Pęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u14	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present our candidate for vice-marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, and this candidate is Senator Marek Pęk. Born August 8, 1975 in Rzeszów. He lives in Krakow all his life and is associated with him. In 2001 he graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the Jagiellonian University in Cracow, and in 2006 he completed postgraduate studies in European Union law at the same university. He was an active member and player of AZS UJ, basketball section. After college, he worked as a lawyer. From 2004 to 2009, he served as a legal assistant to Members of the European Parliament. Between 2010 and 2014, he was a legal adviser to Marek Pęk, and from 2009 until 2015 he worked with a notary firm run by his wife in Krakow. Member of the Law and Justice Party, member of the Political Council of Law and Justice, Chairman of the District Law and Justice Board in Cracow and electoral coordinator in the Cracow District in local elections in 2018. In the parliamentary elections in 2015, he was elected as senator in the electoral district no. 31 including the counties of Krakowski, Miechowski and Olkuski. Secretary of the Senate of the 9th term of office, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, member of the Legislative Commission, member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, member of parliamentary and senate teams, including, inter alia, Parliamentary Idea Idea Team Robert Schuman and Parliamentary Idea Team Organization of World Youth Days, Cracow 2016. Married, has three children. Ladies and gentlemen, during these 3 years when we are together in the Senate, Senator Marek Pęk has certainly been made known as a hardworking and conscientious senator and a fellow senator, therefore I ask you very much to vote for our candidate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the election of Senator Marek Pęk as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. The Senate shall elect the Senate Vice-Marshal by an absolute majority vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted. The absolute majority of votes required shall be 37. 58 senators voted in favour, no senator opposed, 14 senators abstained. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the Senate Vice-Marshal and has elected Senator Mark Pęk as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. [[Applause]] I ask you, Mr. Vice-Marshal, to approach the president's table. I would like to present to the marshal a resolution of the Senate on this matter. [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending the excise duty Act and certain other laws, the Energy Efficiency Act and the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels. The text of the act is contained in print No 1203, and the report of the committee in print No 1203 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Minister! Yesterday, a meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was held on which the Law on Energy Efficiency and the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels was considered. That law was adopted by the Sejm on 13 June 2019. First of all, I would like to point out that the amendments covered by the Act are highly pro-social. The first one allows to continue in the second half of 2019 to protect electricity consumers in Poland from rising energy prices. The second is to reach out to those who have invested in energy efficiency, hoping for state support, but have not yet received this support for various reasons. And the third change will allow for the request for support for the purchase of electric cars by individuals, i.e. so-called. ordinary citizens. Because so far only local governments have had that opportunity. Now they will also have natural persons. And now I would like to move on to a detailed discussion of the provisions of the law. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 is included in the amendment of the Law of 28 December 2018 on the amendment of the Law on excise duties, i.e. so-called. Act on electricity prices. The amendment corrects the functioning mechanism for stabilising electricity prices and clarifies doubts as to the compatibility of the law with European law. As a result, the Act introduces a differentiation of the mechanism for the first and second half of 2019. In the first half of 2019 prices for all electricity final customers will not be higher than in 2018 and in the second half of 2019 as high as 98% of final customers, i.e. more than 17 million consumers, will not feel an increase in electricity prices. These recipients will be among others. households, of which there are around 15 million micro-enterprises, of which there are about 2 million, small enterprises, of which there are about 57 000, hospitals and units of the public finance sector, including local governments. On the other hand, medium-sized and large entrepreneurs will be covered in the second half of the year by a 95% reduction in the transitional fee, as is the case with other recipients. and a reduction in excise duty. In addition, the provisions of the Act introduce the possibility for medium-sized and large enterprises to apply for funding from electricity consumed in the second half of 2019 under the de minimis aid mechanism. This aid is limited and will amount to up to EUR 20,000 over 3 tax years. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 there is an amendment to the Energy Efficiency Act. The amendment involves extending the validity of energy efficiency certificates. This is so important that some of them have not even been issued by the Energy Regulatory Office. Thus, the entities to which they belong were not able to sell these certificates on the stock exchange. Some energyists point out, perhaps rightly so, that energy efficiency is the first fuel that should be used in the energy mix. Thus, the law allows those who have invested in this efficiency not to remain with such a big problem. Because in the future, they might not make another decision in this regard. And we all want these decisions to be made just to reduce the production of fossil fuels. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels is amended. The amendment is intended to make it possible to apply for support for the purchase of electric vehicles and hydrogen-using vehicles by non-business natural persons. Art. 4 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers Art. 6 introduces an obligation for the Minister of Energy to issue a regulation to the Act on electricity prices within 21 days of the date of entry into force of the Act, so that the whole process will be started, the entire payment procedure for the fund for energy companies and the contracts with final customers which have not yet been amended. The provisions of the Act provide for its entry into force on the day following that of its publication. The entry into force of the Act on the day following the date of its publication is justified by the division of 2019, the introduction of 2 mechanisms to stabilise electricity prices for final customers. The exception is Art. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act as amended by Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This deadline is due to the need to maintain the validity of energy efficiency certificates. Mr. Marshal, the Senate, yesterday's committee meeting held a heated discussion with the Vice Minister and his experts, as well as the President of the Energy Trading Society, President of Mark Kulesa. The Commission has examined 12 proposals for amendments prepared by the Legislative Bureau. In addition, President Marek Kules presented 9 proposals for amendments to this amendment. All these proposals have been discussed in detail. The problem that was most obvious to me is that the legislators, both to the Sejm and to the Senate, said that this law should be notified by the European Commission. However, the Minister and his experts explained that there is no need for it to be notified that everything is being agreed with the Commission, with representatives of the European Commission, and this does not require notification. Other proposals were simply legislative correctness. There were other topics that were discussed in detail. Therefore, after a heated discussion, a proposal for a law without amendments was submitted. And that was the proposal voted out, two senators abstained, the rest were in favour of the proposal. Mr Marshal, High Senate, on behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u17	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. You're welcome, Mr... Who? [[Senator Florek.]] Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's a lot of money, so I have a question about where there's gonna be money to pay compensation. And could you possibly elaborate on what with public aid within the meaning of EU rules? Because you just said that the Minister claims... But I would like to know if you were discussing what this discussion was about public aid, within the meaning of EU rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u20	At the committee meeting, we also talked about a regulation that will only start the refund process for those who paid more than what resulted from the reduction in excise duty. Why has this regulation not yet been published despite the passing six months?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u21	Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a specific question. Let's say they are. large chemical plants, which, as you know, consume a lot of energy. As I understand it, in the light of the law, they will be able to claim compensation up to EUR 200 000 on a scale of 3 years, right? Am I getting this right? Explain this mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please answer me. 3 questions, 3 answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u24	Yes, sir. Senator Florek asked for public help. At the end of the day, the Deputy Minister presented state aid rules and said that they were required... Simply a notification is required when certain technical conditions are met. And he mentioned what technical conditions should be met in order for the law to mean that the European Union must be notified at all. And he explained that this law simply does not contain technical conditions which require notification. I think it might be better for you to explain these details to the Minister. There was a discussion on this subject because the legislators in both the Sejm and the Senate raised this issue. They said, however, that the bill requires notification, and the Ministry claimed that it did not. Perhaps I would simply ask you to give more detailed explanations here, Minister. I'm just presenting what happened at the committee meeting. Second thing... You're still Senator Florek. Was there another subject in there? [[Where's the compensation money coming from?]] Oh, where's the money coming from? Well, the money will be paid out of the Price Difference Payment Fund. Where'd the money come from? That wasn't discussed. I'm sure it'll be paid out of the budget, but... it'll be the Minister who's gonna explain where the big money's coming from to help people keep their energy prices up. Now, Senator Augustine's question about the regulation. Yes, indeed, this regulation is not yet in place, but, as I have already mentioned, it is written here that the regulation is to be presented probably within 21 days. The subject of the regulation was widely consulted with other actors at a joint government and local government committee meeting, that is the case It's pretty difficult. In any case, this law is somehow, so to speak, adapted to the future regulation, the draft regulation is already, to be discussed, presented in the forum of the various actors. It was still discussed whether the regulation should not be an annex to the law, because perhaps the law would require some further correction and that it should not be so that the regulation goes beyond the scope of the law. The law is, so to speak, a higher law than a regulation, and the point is that there should be no conflict. The Minister said that everything is well thought out, that such a text of the bill is sufficient to enable the relevant regulation, which will regulate all the details... That means it's all compatible, i.e. the law and future regulation. Mr. Senator Jackowski... Yes? It's a big chemical plant. So, Mr. Senator, large plants, which consume a lot of energy, most often buy this energy on the stock market. In this law, this case is settled, for those who bought energy on the stock exchange, there will also be compensation. There must be an appropriate procedure, there must be requests for compensation, etc., in order to compensate. It is known that public aid can be granted up to de minimis levels, without the consent of the European Union, no more aid must be granted. Thus, de minimis aid can be granted and this amounts to EUR 200 000 over 3 tax years. It is not so little, except in relation to the total cost of energy purchased by large plants that consume a lot of energy, it is not There's so much more. But these bets have the ability to buy energy on the stock market, so they can buy energy cheaper. A small customer does not pay to buy energy on the stock market, only to pay the price that is issued by sellers, while large bets have the opportunity and use it to... Such companies are probably about 2% they consume a lot of energy and have the opportunity to reduce energy costs in this way. In addition, there is also the possibility to obtain a refund, this aid of EUR 200 000 over 3 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u25	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u26	I'm gonna ask you one more question. Mr. Senator, this bill applies to 2019. And what will happen in 2020? Will the market decide? Will there therefore be increases and we will all pay for the rise in energy prices? What about inflation? What's gonna happen next year? Because the law only applies to the year 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u27	Thank you. Are there any more questions? No. That was the last question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome, one last answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u28	Thank you very much. I think the Ministry and the government are already thinking about compensating for this and that the energy price should not be too high, but this issue was not discussed at the committee meeting. Nevertheless, it is a great effort of the state, a great effort of the government to simply maintain these energy prices, so that the negligence that has occurred before, for many years... that simply society and entrepreneurs are not burdened with it now. But what the mechanisms are going to be next year, we haven't talked about yet. This certainly also requires agreement with the European Union, as well as with businesses, with different actors. As far as the work is concerned, I would ask the Minister to answer. Because this topic has not been discussed in such detail. I mean. There are big problems when it comes to keeping things going... just to get things ready for this year. And we've focused mostly on getting this over with by the end of the year. And as far as next year is concerned, it's a matter of, say, another possible delivery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u29	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls. Well, thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Would a government representative like to speak? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Tadeusz Skobl and the President of the Maciej Banda Energy Regulatory Office. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been some questions I would like to address directly. They were discussed yesterday at the committee meeting. I think there is one particular question, namely formal issues, legal issues, decision-making issues, the one behind this law. I will perhaps make a rather long argument, but since this issue often arises, it may be worth taking note of this argument. So that you all know how, what categories we think about what categories our lawyers think and all the legal services that take care of this project. The possibility for a Member State to impose an obligation of general economic interest on an energy undertaking is provided for in Article. 3 (1) (a) 2 Directive 2009/72 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 concerning common rules for the internal market in electricity and repealing Directive 2003/54, hereinafter referred to as the Market Directive. The Treaty on the provision of services of general economic interest is based on Article. 106 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which is referred directly to by Article. 3 (1) (a) 2 Market Directive. In the absence of a clear definition of services of general economic interest in practice, the areas in which a service of general economic interest may be provided are defined. The doctrine includes the grounds that an area may be covered by services of general economic interest, the following criteria. Firstly, services should be provided on a continuous basis. Secondly, services should be provided to all users throughout the territory constituting a reference point. Third, services should be provided under uniform tariffs on the basis of uniform criteria. Another definition adopted in practice shows that services of general economic interest pursue a general interest, meet existential human needs and serve the development of other enterprises and the economy as a whole, and are so important that if they were not provided by certain undertakings, the State itself would be obliged to provide them. The service of supplying electricity meets these conditions. Polish Price Act to the extent that it regulates pricing and tariffs. For electricity, 5 and 6 is intended to avoid the negative effects of a significant increase in electricity prices by electricity consumers. Poland remains one of the poorest countries of the European Union. GDP per capita reaches less than 70% the average for the countries of the European Union. In this respect, we are only ahead of Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia, Latvia, Greece and Hungary. At the same time, Poland has one of the highest wholesale electricity prices in the European Union, which ultimately also translates into the prices that consumers pay and their purchasing capacity for electricity. The second point is the proportionality criterion as a criterion for the admissibility of market interference. In the Federutility judgment v... the Court made it conditional on the admissibility of the mechanism to demonstrate that the proportionality of the intervention of a Member State in the market is met, i.e. the obligation to provide a public service limits the right to set freely the prices of supplies of goods only to the extent necessary to achieve the objective of general economic interest to which they are aiming. To this end, it should be demonstrated that the intervention is limited in time. Energy prices for individual groups of operators, as a result of an increase in wholesale electricity prices, could lead to an increase in retail electricity prices offered to different groups of consumers by up to a dozen percent. Such a sharp increase would have a double impact on consumers, both directly and indirectly, at the price of electricity consumed. At the prices of goods and services purchased. In view of the wide diversity and volatility of the electricity market, it is necessary to maintain current energy prices from mid-2018 and to follow the projections for electricity costs for 2020 and possibly take appropriate measures to mitigate the risks associated with repeated risks of high price levels in subsequent years. The annual period appears to be a sufficiently long period of application of the mechanism. The intervention provided for in the Polish Price Act is therefore limited in time. According to Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Act, the mechanism for maintaining the rates, prices and charges contained in the tariff or price list of the electricity trading firm is valid only for 2019 as the year in which the increase would be particularly noticeable. Therefore, the condition of the temporary limitation of intervention has been met. Intervention does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve the objective of general economic interest, quantitative proportionality. The aim of the mechanism provided for in the Polish Price Act is to ensure the provision of electricity supply services at economically acceptable prices by electricity consumers, so the assessment of compliance with this condition requires reference to the level of price increases in wholesale electricity markets that have been recorded since around mid-2018. In turn, according to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 of the Polish Price Act is maintained in 2019 electricity prices, which were applied in mid-2018, so the intervention is limited only to the price increases in the electricity market since mid-2018. In addition, it has been ensured that the different entities that are otherwise cleared In actual consumption and forecast consumption They did not obtain any additional benefits from the method of accounting. According to Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The price law for end-users accounted for according to forecast consumption of the trading company applies the forecasted consumption adjustment mechanism after receiving actual consumption data and duly takes this into account in the electricity consumption of the end-user concerned during subsequent settlement periods. At the same time, the method of calculating the difference between the market price and the price set out in the Regulation of the Minister for Energy issued pursuant to Article. Paragraph 7 1 the Price Act ensures that there is no breach of the scope of the service of general economic interest beyond what is necessary. It should therefore be considered that the condition of quantitative proportionality has been met. The intervention shall be proportionate to the group of beneficiaries. In assessing the fulfilment of this criterion, it is necessary to refer again to Federutility v... in which the tribunal explicitly points out that a limitation of the circle of beneficiaries does not mean exclusive, only the possibility of applying the mechanism to non-individual entities. The Court also pointed out that this restriction does not have to apply to operators entitled to universal service 3 (1) (a) 3 of the Market Directive, i.e. consumers in households, small and medium-sized enterprises, the protection of which must be ensured because of their adverse situation. Therefore, according to the Court's assessment, end-users may also benefit from services of general economic interest. The public service obligations in energy must be as set out in Article. 3 (1) (a) 2 The market directive meets the following cumulative conditions. They must be of general economic interest, as indicated earlier, and must address at least one of the following issues: security, including security of supply; regularity of supply; quality of supply; price of supply; environmental protection, including energy efficiency from renewable sources and climate protection. The Polish Price Act explicitly refers to the issue of the price of electricity supply. Another condition They must be clearly defined. As pointed out in the case law under Article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 TFEU, the establishment of an obligation to manage services of general economic interest... It is therefore necessary to adopt a certain form of commitment, a clear act of public authority, which in principle takes the form of public law, such as normative acts, laws or administrative decisions, e.g. in the form of concessions or public contracts issued, e.g. concession contracts. The Polish Price Act, which is undoubtedly an act of public authority, therefore fulfils the condition of the appropriate form in which the obligation to manage services of general economic interest was imposed. They need to be transparent. That's another condition. The Act clearly defines the obligations imposed on energy sellers, the powers of end-users and the conditions for exercising those powers. They must be non-discriminatory. The Act does not contain discriminatory provisions. They must be verifiable. The granting of compensation shall entail an application to the clearing manager which controls the fulfilment by undertakings of an obligation to perform an undertaking of general economic interest. In addition, the failure to comply with the obligations laid down in the Act shall be subject to a penalty imposed by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. Therefore, the undertaking is verifiable. They must ensure that energy companies have equal access to national consumers. The Act ensures equal access to national consumers, does not hinder the process of changing sellers, as the mechanism for amending the comprehensive agreement and amending the energy contract does not interfere with their duration and does not introduce a uniform price for all consumers. The mechanism also allows all trading companies to obtain compensation regardless of their origin, provided they sell electricity in Poland and thus guarantee equal access for Community companies to domestic consumers. According to Art. 3 (1) (a) 6 of the Market Directive for the fulfilment of public service obligations by energy undertakings, a Member State may grant financial compensation, other forms of compensation and exclusive rights, which should be carried out in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. The Act defines the basic financial compensation mechanism on the basis of which mathematical formulas will be presented in the provisions of the Act implementing the Act, the methods for calculating the amount of the financial resources granted in the context of compensation for the fulfilment of public service obligations. In view of the above, it must be concluded that the statutory mechanisms have been correctly established. The revision of the provisions introduced in the second half of 2019 aims primarily to take into account the fact that the government of the Republic of Poland is proceding a draft act on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors, the strict adaptation of the group of beneficiaries of the law to the framework set out in the Market Directive so as to resolve doubts about this aspect of regulation. So much for that. I'm going to refer to the other questions that have emerged. Senator Florek asked me where the money came from for these payments. They are included in the impact assessment, both in the first and in the second, and I think in the third too. 4 billion zlotys are not used in previous years 55 billion zlotys related to CO2 emissions. Another 4 billion PLN is the result of a reduction in excise duty and a transitional levy. The sum is PLN 8 billion, of which PLN 1 billion is designated for green investments. Senator Augustine asks why it takes so long to issue this regulation. We do not hide that this time, and the time since the start of this law is quite significant, was also devoted to discussions with the European Commission on the regulation. We did not want to issue a legislative act until we closed the whole process and could issue this regulation. This act is prepared, it is necessary to correct errors or corrections in connection with the comments resulting from the consultation, because it has been consulted, and I assure you that within this assumed period of 21 days, which was presented in the Act, it will be implemented. Senator Jackowski asked what happened to energy-intensive companies. The answer should be: Energy-intensive companies, as you know, are currently under the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Act on energy-intensive enterprises in 2019 on 2 solutions. In the first half of the year energy-intensive companies use this mechanism for the first half of the year. In the second half of the year, energy companies are excluded from this. Depending on the pace of implementation of the Act, energy-intensive companies will have 2 options: to use the mechanism for the first half of the year under the Procededed Act or, if the Act for Energy-intensive enterprises entered into force faster, to select the latter option, but to subtract the first half of the year so that there is no overcompensation in this regard. And the last question, Senator Flork, was about 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, in these materials which you have had from the outset there are 2 essential elements: a reduction in excise duty from 20 PLN to 5 PLN and a reduction in the transitional fee by 95%; it translates in different ways in different tariff groups into a reduction in transmission, distribution. And these 2 elements are transferred to 2020, there is no time limit here. In order to address energy by 2020, a second half-year analysis is needed. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any questions for the Minister? You're welcome, Senator Augustine, and then Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u32	Minister, I have three questions. Did the other countries of the European Union also introduce similar mechanisms, and if so, on what scale and was there a need for notification? That's the first question. Two. What is the opinion of the Energy Regulatory Office on this submission? And a third. What percentage of price increases is the transitional fee including excise duty? In short, I am trying to find out how to maintain a reduction in excise duty and a transitional levy next year will compensate entrepreneurs for the increase.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u34	Like Senator Augustine, I'd like to ask your opinion. What were the other opinions, how was the consultation? You were talking about the impact assessment of the regulation. Could you possibly I am not a member of the committee to develop this subject, to say what was the opinion on the impact assessment? That would be the first question. Second, maybe directly unrelated to the bill. I'm talking about the RES, the 15%. By 2020 Are we not being punished for this, and are we taking action? Will there be a revision of the RES Act? It was foretold. Will we have to change the rules of this law before the election? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u35	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u36	I'm answering Senator Augustine's questions. Did other countries do it, too, and did they do it to the same extent? Probably not in the same range. Each country regulates this according to its own knowledge, using e.g. A solution like us in the second half, de minimis. The spectrum of cases is quite broad. I haven't met a solution equivalent to ours. So much for point one. Second point. What is the opinion of the president of the URE? The President of URE came to the floor here to see if he had been asked to speak. I think he's about to express his opinion on this. The third point, i.e. the transitional fee and the excise duty. You have to look at what comes with the transitional fee. [[I know it's different. What's the average, Minister?]] Together, it's all 4 billion zlotys. As much as we'd like to say in global size. But it's decomposing. One is for a kilowato hour and is counted differently from 20 zł per 5 zł, here is 15 zł difference On the other hand, the second is included in the distribution fee. Distribution fee, as I said, can be 4% It could be 5%. This is already an individual size, to be determined. But globally, all of this amounts to PLN 4 billion. So much for your question about what's being transferred to next year and how high. [[But what's the percentage?]] [[Wait a minute. Mr. Senator, we're asking questions, we're not having a discussion.]] Well, you asked me a question. 15 zlotys remain for next year, 95% remain for next year. Totally, this amounts to about PLN 4 billion, if you want to know. It's decomposing. 15 PLN in the case of kilowato hour and depending on consumption... You're asking me how much? This has to be calculated, the number of hours is calculated and the size of the individual recipient is determined. As regards the distribution fee, this element will be regulated by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office for 2020. That's the answer to your question, the most specific question you can give right now. Impact assessment of the regulation. Senator Florek wants to know what she looked like. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been many questions. It was hundreds of questions, there were over a thousand questions, sometimes opposing each other. Various social groups have tried to take care of their interests in different ways. Therefore, it is not possible to refer directly to more than a thousand questions that have arisen. What was possible to agree, what pointed to the shortcomings of the bill, was certainly included in it. Since Senator Jackowski is here, if you don't mind, I'm going back to industry. [[Yeah, because the senator asked a question and left.]] Yes. There was no senator. [[You're welcome.]] I said... [[That was a question for the rapporteur.]] But I'm the one who's gonna answer them, if that's okay. Entrepreneurs associated with chemistry, the one you were talking about, the big chemistry, are generally energy-intensive entrepreneurs. Their situation this year is as follows. By the middle of the year, they can benefit from the regulations laid down by the law and can benefit from the solutions contained therein. About the second half of the year... If the Energy-Intensive Industry Act were to enter into force faster, even this year, and would also cover 2019, it is possible that this company would not benefit from this solution in the first half of the year, which we are talking about at the moment, only that it would benefit fully in 2019 from the solutions contained in the draft Energy-Intensive Enterprises Act. And that will be paid back in 2020. It's a law of a different design than the one we're talking about, but it's a possibility. There isn't one possibility. The use of these 2 elements at the same time. That would be an oversupport. It's unacceptable, and that's not possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u37	Thank you very much. But, Minister, there are still reports. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the possibility of a surcharge for individuals to, let's just call it a purchase of electric cars. Well, according to the following article. 28zga, only after the Minister responsible for energy has issued the relevant regulation, in agreement with others, will it be possible to draw up proposals, but there is no time limit specified in the Act until such a regulation is to be issued. About the art. 1., these are deadlines, and as far as the article is concerned. Three, that's not the term. That's the first line. So the question is: when do you intend to issue such a regulation? And then there's the second line. If more or less we can try - because this interests our citizens directly - for what subsidies, for what types of vehicles? And most importantly, how much more money is there for this by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have another question, Minister, because this bill is quite complicated, and I would like that from a citizen's position... So, as I understand it, in the light of this law, the individual recipient of the G group does not have to submit any application and will automatically have the level of accounts of June 2018, i.e., on the basis of these indicators it will be calculated according to individual consumption. A similar principle applies to self-governments, public administrations, micro-enterprises and those who do not have legal personality. In other cases, an application for compensation must be made and the procedure laid down in the Act. Am I getting this right? Can such a message go to citizens: there are no electricity increases and the citizen does not have to submit any applications because everything will be done automatically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u41	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u42	Minister, the Senate has three more sessions scheduled for the end of this term, and that is why my question was about the revision of the RES Act. We know that we're being punished and that 15% of them are. By 2020, we certainly won't. An urgent amendment of the law and amendments is necessary. Since there will be three sittings, I asked the Minister if this amendment would be in place by the end of this term. [[Mr. Senator, this question doesn't apply to this bill.]] I do. It's not directly connected, but... [[But, Senator, we can't talk about everything.]] But, Mr. Marshal, I've asked them before. I only meant the answer in one word - yes or no.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u43	All right. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u44	I answer that question to Senator Flork because it actually slipped my mind. Yesterday, a draft amendment to the Renewable Energy Act was adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Poland. It assumes appropriate action so that this year the President of the Energy Regulatory Office can initiate a procedure for the identification of those electricity suppliers who may take off this year. There is, as I recall, 3 000 400 MW - 2 000 500 from the wind, and about 700 is energy from photovoltaics. This bill was passed yesterday by the government and addressed to both chambers, the Sejm and the Senate, so that it could be processed. When she's set on the schedule, we'll see. It's not on our side anymore. Question about electric cars - when will this regulation be? When this law, which we are talking about, is passed immediately, i.e. within 2, 3 weeks, a regulation should be introduced. And this Regulation will specify the maximum price for an electric vehicle for which co-financing can be obtained. Why do I say maximum? Well, you're aware that electric vehicles, the best ones, are very expensive. We're not going to finance any of them. I'm not going to point out any entity here. • such vehicles that are not for the average customer, one that would like to use them in Poland, only vehicles for some individual individuals. There's going to be a price, we're trying to figure it out today. We're waiting for this bill to be passed, and then we're gonna define it. And there will also be a price to be paid to support this vehicle. From this price that will be determined, the percentage will be indicated. And someone who's gonna buy a vehicle like that... Well, there's gonna be a certain amount of money. We are now assessing what it will be like, taking into account all the differences that still exist in our financial capacity. Until the supply of funds is exhausted, an invoice may be submitted and the money may be refunded for the purchased electric vehicle.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u45	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u46	Mr. Marshal, I asked you a question and asked you to explain the essence of the bill in three points. It means that individual doesn't have to do anything, who has to... etc. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Yes, sir.]] It's all about making that announcement go away.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u47	I thought it'd been said so many times and maybe there's no need to repeat it. If there's a need, I'll get back to it. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to individual customers, i.e. 15 million recipients You have this country in this material that is attached It's nobody's job to do anything, it's all done by the electricity supplier. This is the case for individual customers. Small and medium-sized enterprises... Maybe it's different. Micro- and small businesses will not have to do anything in the second half of the year either. Small and medium-sized enterprises benefiting from de minimis aid will have to make an appropriate statement on what measures they have already used in this area. As regards energy-intensive companies, these statements will be made. If they want to benefit from it in the first half of this year, they may have to... Well, by the first half of the year they won't have to, and by the second half of the year, if they want to use this mode that's provided for in this bill, then... In the second half of the year energy-intensive customers are excluded. There are no energy-intensive customers in the second half of the year. They do not have to submit anything here, they must comply with the draft amendment of the law submitted by the Ministry of Technology and Innovation, investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u48	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwiński will ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u49	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... Minister, I would like to ask you something, because this is an issue that will be of interest to an increasingly large group of our citizens when it comes to electric cars. There's gonna be a pool of money. I take it whoever comes forward first gets paid? Because some criteria have to decide if it turns out that this pool is running out and there's more to it than that. And here's the question. Will you also take into account cars purchased earlier or only purchased from the date of entry into force of the Act, so we would like to count this forward, with a future date? And what is more or less the procedure for accepting applications? Paper or electronic? Because it matters, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u50	I'll answer that. First of all, this amount must be fixed. Only when this amount is fixed can someone come forward with the purchase invoice A new invoice, not an invoice for something that was bought before, and now someone will come with this document. And he can get that money. That's one answer to your question. And until the funds are exhausted, this can be used. Unfortunately, whoever does not have time to use the envelope, unfortunately, will no longer get it at the amount that is planned there. However, the level of measures planned by us, estimated at the moment, seems sufficiently large due to the number of electric cars that appear in Poland at the moment. This should be enough for the maximum chamber of those who would like to benefit from it. [[Paper or electronic applications? Where to find information?]] I mean, there's got to be an invoice in general. The invoice must be presented This is a normal thing. 'Cause it's a basic document. So... Yeah, in the formula it's in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u51	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you.]] Would you like to speak? No. Are there any questions for the president? No... Oh, there's one question. There you go. So, Mr. President, you're welcome to join me in the podium. Mr. Senator... There's one call from Senator Augustine. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u52	Mr President, the Minister suggested that we would get to know the opinion of the Energy Regulatory Office on this bill. So I'm asking her.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Office shall assess the law in 2 areas. As for the technical aspects that are included in the submission, we have not made any comments. But our opinion on the bill and its impact on the market has been crazy negative since the beginning. One of our main objectives is to promote competition, and this is to promote competition both in the area of broadly understood entrepreneurship and In particular, it's not that big a In the area of energy companies. We believe that the law in this form will significantly disrupt this competition. We believe that the household cover measures introduced by the change of excise duty rate and the reduction of the transitional fee... And let me remind you that the transitional fee was accepted by you in an amount far higher than what it was four years ago, so here's a reduction in something that you yourselves accepted some time ago. And that's what we're looking at as measures to protect consumers of electricity in households. However, we believe that all the rest of the proposed solutions will have a profound negative impact on market development and competition in the market. By the way, if I can answer the senator's question, which has not yet been answered, I would say that we estimate that the reduction in excise duty and the transitional levy will be less than 10%. costs incurred for electricity. This, of course, will depend on a group of customers, on consumption, which is why I set a ceiling here: about below 10%.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u54	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the president? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, then, Mr President. [[President of the Energy Regulatory Office Maciej Bando: Thank you.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We're at a difficult time. Real energy prices have risen dramatically since last year. Of course, action is needed, lasting action is needed. . such as refers to the reasons. And there's no way to get over it here without saying anything about it. Of course, fuel price increases are responsible for this increase, but also to a large extent for the cost of CO2 allowances. On another occasion, Minister, we have shown that we are not fulfilling our obligations, that instead of increasing the share of renewable energy sources in our energy mix, we have withdrawn. The reason for this is, of course, among others. the devastation of this crawling system of development of this industry through the legislation that we have criticised here. This resulted in a negative outcome, which we warned against. We warned you because we knew it would cost us all. This is the bill that's coming. Because one of the factors that causes this increase is also that the state, being warned and well aware of what has been happening since the beginning of last year, and especially since six months, when you saw this dramatic increase in prices, did nothing for many months. Only at the very end of the year was the nervous, ill-prepared reaction that we are correcting and which, in my opinion, I agree with the backup of the energy market. And yet, without healthy competition, we cannot say that prices are going to be market-driven and under control. After all, we will not officially provide the real and low cost of energy, but through a good market. In the meantime, we go back to a time we seemed to have said goodbye for good. We're trying to control the prices manually. It's a market for itself, and it's a price for itself. This is a curiosity situation. I think the government has a huge responsibility for what happened. None of the countries have as many problems as we do. Unfortunately, it's a result of inability, failure to listen to warnings. This is also seen in the absence of a regulation that cannot be born, which creates uncertainty, which gives rise to nervousness. I told the committee at the meeting that, according to what the Chamber of Commerce has given me, some entities simply pay the old price, even though they get higher invoices, and this already shows that the State is no longer acting, that there are arbitrary decisions on the basis of statements, contrary to what can be said, to the applicable law. That's why it's hard to see optimistically into the future. Senator Florek asked me what to do next. And the Minister said that the European Union requires that it be only for a certain period of time. How do we put this on what you said, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, that this transitional fee and excise duty, which the Minister said would certainly be reduced We'll take your word for it. Next year, we'll continue to... So what? Of these sometimes 70% increases, we're guaranteed to be 10%. Lower? And it's 60%. Is it going to grow? That's the perspective that's ahead of us? Please make this clear to entrepreneurs and people who, if they don't pay in bills, will pay in stores. It's hard to comment on this bill, because it doesn't bring good information. We've only got a few months left by next year. Over the course of this period, it is impossible to catch up on the four years lost and the increase in the share of renewable energy sources. I doubt, Minister, that investors will be able to do something about this in such a short time. The investment processes are unfortunately longer, and we don't have time. The Prime Minister standing here in the Senate, asked by me whether we were facing very serious punishments for failing to meet the standards to which we have committed in terms of the share of renewable energy, has said this to all of us. Without hiding: yes, we are facing multi-billion-dollar penalties. So this is the result of your actions. We're running out of time when you could've been chasing something down on someone. You guys had four years to fix what... Well, that's why you came to the government to fix, to move on, to go in the right direction. In this case, It's gotta be said. You didn't meet your expectations. Moreover, it may turn out that the consequences will be borne by every Pole. I would like to tell you that we are facing a dilemma. Well, on the one hand, you have to save... but there's a lifeline that's rushing down to business to keep them on the surface, but you're not saying anything about a rescue ship coming in a minute that's gonna sail quietly to the shore. That's why we're here, so to speak... we have a dilemma about how to react to this bill to be understood. We can't be against her in this situation, but we're calling out the reservations I've been talking about, and the great fear that next year will be difficult in energy and... [[Mr. Senator, the speaking time is over.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm just saying the last sentence. [[You're welcome.]] The next year in energy will be difficult, difficult for businesses and difficult for citizens, and you do not have an effective prescription a few months before 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Pekkis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u57	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a brief comment. Maybe not directly. The provisions of the Act, which are very detailed, very technical, unambiguous and in principle it would be difficult not to address them in a positive and only positive way. The government has once again undertaken an effort to contribute to the development of energy prices for end-users of individual farms. Farms, not people, I was allergic, because at the committee meeting it was often changed, and this is important. It is true that in this the government is effective, it is effective, and the fears that have been expressed Very similar, in a very similar tone It didn't work out. I mean, there was no total disaster, no chaos, no market collapse. Well, that didn't happen. In other words, it works. Therefore, the technical amendments that are now being made, which the Minister and the experts at the committee meeting spoke about in detail, allow us to conclude that it will work even better. With regard to those sentences that the Senator foreman was willing to say that it is getting worse in the renewable energy market and that the disaster is ahead of us... Well, from the official data published by the Central Statistical Office, because on them we rely on something completely different. Well, it gets better every year, year after year... If you look at the statistics of the Central Statistical Office, there is such an addition. It turns out that Poland does not have a problem with this. The energy problem is... [[He's wrong.]] I listened carefully to what you said, Senator. The energy problem, Ladies and gentlemen, has countries in Europe... And that's a giant problem. What Poland has, you can say, is some inconvenience. This is not a problem. They have a problem, for example. Lithuania, Latvia, Belarus, Estonia. These are countries that are still in circulation, let's call it Russian, these are countries that operate in the energy transmission controlled by Moscow. And that's the problem. They depend on will or lack of will, on the supply of energy through that power. And although they are in a united Europe, they are not subject to the single European market in this respect. And that's the problem, and that's the real problem. These problems that you are now trying to imply with every energy change are not problems. Trying to prove that the Polish government hasn't done anything for four years... This can only be said by someone who has experience in what we have observed for eight years before when nothing has been done. When the thesis was made that we would set up a nuclear power plant, build nuclear energy, one of the first activities, apart from the appointment of many powerful salaries, was to establish a patronage of this new company, without production yet, over the sports club. And again millions were pumped, but it was nothing, it was basically nothing negative, Mr. Senator. And that has to be said that you didn't have a complete idea of how to react to a situation when wind power plants were only used as a transmission to pump money from one account to another, when it didn't matter whether this power plant worked or didn't work, because the grant was making a profit on this investment. And that was a serious problem. Nothing has been done about it over the years, and that was a real problem. If you know what you're talking about... I think we need to start talking about this honestly. What is the current government doing? Of course, it would probably be irresponsible to limit ourselves to coal-produced energy with what is currently happening in Europe. And in this regard, pay attention to this... Please note some facts that you see, for example. A great empire. The United States of America praised us publicly for this, the President of the United States praises the Polish government's efforts in the field of energy, and you do not see it. What about the construction of a pipeline linking Poland to the Norwegian continental shelf? Don't you see that? I don't know if you know that gas will be imported this way many times... Many times it is an exaggeration, but it will be much cheaper than the one with which we operate on the basis of terrible contracts from a few years ago, agreements with the Eastern Power. [[Orban sees it differently.]] If any of you are reading about whether you are interested in energy, then you know that these activities are also positively assessed by the world's greatest power, and you say that it is a disaster that awaits us in the next year some kind of... Here you must sincerely refer to what is, for a moment, to leave this stage of demagogy and to model statements dictated solely by the desire to create a crisis, because there is no such crisis. That is not enough, there is a system of solutions effectively implemented by the government, also by the minister present here who brings us out of this situation. And these problems that you are implying, claiming that these are the biggest problems in Europe, problems that only Poland has... Well, we're the biggest problems. I'm talking about the example of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, we really don't have one in this energy industry. We still produce electricity at home, in the country, we don't have to import it. Mr Senator is interested in energy, he probably knows how many countries have the potential of energy self-sufficiency as Poland, and that this is not a large number. You should also be aware, in order to ensure that we respect the European Union's emission standards of different substances so diligently that those countries that introduced them are those countries which imposed them. And basically we're talking about one country, Germany. The standards which they themselves imposed do not meet. And that's what you have to say honestly. If we are to be subject to the multi-billion-dollar penalties you are threatening us for failing to comply with the standards, what are the penalties to be imposed on countries that do not meet these standards repeatedly? And I don't know if you know that this country that imposes these standards on us is Europe's largest carbon issuer. But in order to be more interesting, this represents only a single percentage of the emissions of the countries that are the biggest poisoners in the world, which are not subject to the dictatorship of those standards you are talking about. So scaring the fact that Polish economy, Polish energy creates some kind of crisis, is just scaring and I don't think it's right to do it in the Senate. Just like that. We have the comfort that by plugging into any socket, whether it's low voltage or high voltage, we just have this current. We have this comfort that the Polish farm fee thanks to the intervention of the Polish government is at the level And now, here's the thing. The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that it is compatible with the So scaring us that we have some kind of disaster, it's just, humanly speaking, threatening against reality. It's a pity I regretted it at the committee meeting and I regret it again. We do not argue that I did not have a chance to discuss, because there was no possibility, because the state did not prepare itself, over the substantive records of this law. I regret that. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u58	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I'm not as big a specialist in energy prices as Senator Pekkis, who, as I say, is professionally interested in this and knows the answer to every question. But, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this as an ordinary citizen who is watching what is happening on the market, reading, watching, listening to you. I want to say, as a person who is already old and has lived through various periods, that there were situations when there was a representative of power and he said: everything is okay, there are no problems at all, the only problems are created by everyone around, of course, except those who are in the east. But what if we ask ourselves, and where do we get this coal now? Is he from the Polish mines, Senator? I don't get it. We're taking coal from this country you're listing as your greatest enemy. So we're taking coal from the enemy? Why? To strengthen it economically? Why are we taking so much coal? To poison the Republic, the inhabitants of the most poisoned country in Europe? If it's so good, why is it so bad? I understand that the answer is that it's bad because for eight years... and then there's this famous melody. Probably, although I am not, as I said, a specialist in this industry was some mistakes and you can exchange them, and I can even sign under it. But, ladies and gentlemen, sir, you've been in power for four years, and as I listen to this debate about energy, it's my hair. What's today's idea of what's going on in the energy industry without going into details because I'm not going to discuss it with you? Freezing prices and subsidies. [[Extras.]] As a young man, you do not know what the main mechanism in the Polish People's Republic was. Freezing of prices and subsidies It's a mechanism from a previous era. Maybe they're good, maybe we're dreaming of getting some mechanisms back that worked out. for many years, for 50 years in Poland. That's one thing. Secondly, when I listened to you, I looked at all kinds of trends in energy prices. Well, if you think it's okay, congratulations on your well-being. If there is no energy problem in Poland... [[There isn't.]] ...the problem of renewable energy sources, the problem of other energy sources at all, alternative energy sources and if energy is not a problem today for the Republic of Poland, its inhabitants and entrepreneurs, I congratulate you. How many more times are we gonna set up subsidies? Do you see any end to these subsidies? 4 billion? The latest survey shows that Poles start to awaken in their consciousness, they say: this PiS is, however, giving out too much out of our pockets. And the state is so light with 4 billion, because it is necessary to save Polish companies and Polish productivity. Perhaps so, and probably so, only a grant is given, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, in order to achieve a long-term goal. And I understand that it could be four. ...or even more, it may be a period of time, but please present to me what is the energy concept of Poland, for me as a citizen who is not as interested in energy as the Senator. You can praise here from this stand that everything is okay, we have the healthiest air in Europe, and in general Germany are the biggest poisoners, and Russia is at all the best of the world in terms of the supply of coal to Poland, but you will not change this reality. The feeling of most Poles is the opposite, as is reality. We have a huge problem with electricity, we are bringing in more and more coal, we have the most poisoned air in Europe. And what's the worst part? That you don't have any perspective. Maybe the senator has it, and I believe you have it, because you're talking about a lot of good and interesting things, and it might be worth considering. But four years to build such a cool program, a grant, fixed prices, and then what? Well, the program is really very ambitious, and I congratulate you on this achievement. And what I'm trying to say is, paraphrasing what you said: for four years, you've done enough that we can freeze prices and subsidies. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u60	You will now speak to Senator Pekkis. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u61	Thank you. Corrigendum: I did not say that Russia is an enemy of the Polish people. That's not true, Mr. Senator, I didn't say that. As far as subsidies are concerned, if you looked at the energy subsidy map in Europe, you would see that there is virtually no country that does not do so, either indirectly or directly. As far as the model of the grant is concerned, Poland has adopted a model in which it is already due to reality, because of the observation of reality, household energy consumption is subsidised. Let me remind you a few numbers: 17 million electricity consumers, about 14.5 million are households, but they consume only twenty-several percent of their energy. We are therefore subsidising a large number of operators, a large number of farms that consume small amounts of energy. This is the reverse model, for example. to a German model, in which you probably know well. In that model, for a change, the German government racks small, subsidizing very intensively its powerful industry. But this is an industry that is based on export production, and that's why it makes real sense. Now an attempt to translate this into Polish reality and again some ignorance. You've probably read that there's a project. ..but in another ministry.. It assumes subsidies to the Polish energy-intensive industry. We'll discuss it when it's time. It is worth remembering, however, that the Polish energy-intensive industry is an industry that has survived the most difficult times and which has often been based on the so-called. Monopoly, almost complete, natural and therefore, with a high income, e.g. KGHM purchased machinery not Polish, but e.g. German. I'll give you one example of an investment that was made a few years ago. In Gdansk Lotos is building a coking plant for petroleum products and in this installation, which is not yet built It should have been built a few years ago. 225 pumps will be installed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, pumps. It's the kind of equipment they pump. Do you know how many of them are Polish productions? Because in Poland there is a great pump industry, pump production. Do you know how many Polish machines you have provided for this installation, our predecessors of the government? Zero. [[They were bad.]] So if we subsidize this kind of activity... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If we subsidize such activities and such an investment, we can wake up with such a problem that, in order to support the German industry... Well, why don't we put some of this industry under German management right away. If there are installations... I, Minister, have written to Minister Tchórzewski about this problem, in my opinion, because that seems to be a problem. If we support the large Polish industry, which decided to build on machines from Germany, England and France and ignore the existing Polish machine industry, it will end badly. I'm not saying there's no problem. I didn't say that either. There are problems, but the scale of these problems has nothing to do with the problems of the great European countries. As far as carbon dioxide is concerned, however, we have cities that have the biggest poisoning of the so-called. PM10, PM2,5, because we have, that's what's flying through the air... But it's not carbon dioxide. As far as carbon dioxide is concerned, in Europe it's Germany... And here you can't speculate or suggest that it's different, that's just the way it is. When it comes to reducing carbon dioxide, it can be said that anyone who looks at direct data will see that it is relative to GDP. India, this is an interesting example that the world is now trying to force a little bit to reduce so-called emissions due to the intense development that is taking place there. greenhouse gases... But they're set to have lower emissions than the actual growth resulting from their development, so they're gonna have less emissions, and so they're gonna have less emissions at the same time as they're gonna have. It's a curiosity. Well, it's all complicated. As for that grant system you were talking about, I'm going to say yes. If there were no subsidies, there would be no wind farms in Poland at all. They were created only because they were very intensively subsidised, because they are by their very nature, when it comes to the production of the energy that is made there, what is produced in them, simply do not pay off. Everyone has the right to start their own business, produce energy from the wind and sell it commercially in Poland after meeting the standards. If it's worth it, do it, I've said it many times. And saying it was like a PRL... Then why did you implement it? It wasn't the government's idea. And the power generation... I got it, and it's in a statement on the pages... of energy production... [[Time's up.]] Okay, thank you. ...from this source is unstable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u62	Thank you, Senator. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... [[Voices from the room: Yet...]] Excuse me, Senator Blackbay, twice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u63	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, since there is such an interesting discussion, I must say two words. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! Make up your mind about something. I'm not jumping to conclusions, I'm trying to get them out of what you're saying here, out of this tribune, because I'm not on the economics committee. I understand you've eliminated the issue of wind power production because there were subsidies. Make up your mind about something. So I say: grant, please understand, in itself is not something that is not even an instrument in the market economy. On the contrary, often for various types of projects, the grant is one of the elements that trigger the industry, the field, etc., as a mechanism also functioning in the market economy. I'm not a total opponent of running grants, but it can't be the only instrument we hear about today from this tribune. And then there's the saying: 'cause other people have problems. I conclude that, for you, the biggest problem is what happens in Germany, that they are the main perpetrators of our misfortune. Okay, so be it. As for Russia, I'll say yes. It is necessary to decide whether Russia is economically, politically and so on. He's our friend, our enemy, or he's a neutral state. I just ask questions, I don't quantify that you put Russia in a number of countries aspiring to the European Union. But I ask myself here as a Pole, because since we are talking about problems concerning military relations, political relations with Russia, and we are today one of the biggest importers of Russian coal And yet, God forbid, the coal that is mined in Donbasa I think it's causing some anxiety and questions. And if we add to that what you are talking about, that is, that you should only buy Polish products 'Cause that's how I understood what you said about pump production... I'm not a pump specialist, but I've seen some pumps in my life because I worked at a pulp and paper plant where the whole system was based on pump work, and I want to tell you Alas, it was sad. That there was no Polish pump. Do you know why? Because just the ones that were there were better technically, more efficient and cheaper. Therefore, we must bet on it, Mr. Senator. I say this, since you have already raised this issue. To make the pumps in Poland as good, as efficient... [[Voice from the O.R.: The best.]] ...with a price lower or the same. It's not about buying them because they're Polish. Please note that we are already in the common market, which is called a united Europe, and people want to buy a good product, cheap, stable, etc., etc. Of course, in Poland we should also consider whether it is a product that was produced in Poland. And that's all I wanted to say about that pump project of yours somewhere in Orlena. But it doesn't matter, Mr. Senator, to what I said earlier. There is no energy perspective in Poland. There is a project consisting in freezing prices and subsidies. I understand that this could be a short-term element, with a perspective: what's next? And what's next, we can't hear. We'll hear it next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u64	Thank you. Senator Augustine will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senator Pekkis! I'm talking to you because you were referring to my speech. As for what the Prime Minister of the Polish Government agreed to, and before that President Lech Kaczyński agreed in a similar spirit, there was also a great discussion whether we should sign these commitments for environmental, climatic reasons, or whether we should not sign them. You should remember that. I remember that. Eventually, they decided to sign it. And then, and then. All the countries of the European Union, but not to harm anyone, but to the most legitimate goal: to contribute to the maximum extent possible to halting climate change. Because you can't stretch this air conditioner outside that window where there's a temperature of 34°C. These difficult commitments are not easy to implement It is worth discussing, but it is also worthwhile to contribute to that. However, we are doing this too slowly, slower than what we have committed ourselves to. We slowed down instead of speeding up. The Prime Minister says we're gonna pay billions for this, and you're telling me everything's okay. The President of URE says that the bill is not good, the European Union will most likely have doubts about it, therefore, for example, Minister, that... Well, I have listened calmly to all these arguments, lawyers both to the Sejm and to the Senate, know them, and yet they have doubts that it should not be notified. I would have found a few questionable points here, too, but I didn't want to pursue and further develop this issue anymore, because I want it to be as you want it to be, which is that there are no problems. I'm rooting for this, and if we're talking about something else here, it's because we should worry about a lot of things together, and we should mobilize each other to go in the right direction as soon as possible, and we shouldn't tell some peans how good it is, how bad others are, because it's not what we're doing, and that's not why we're here. Therefore, once again I will say that the fact is very high increases in electricity prices in Poland. And that's bad, that's bad. I mentioned the causes here and pointed out that there was an insufficient response to these causes. Even this rescue pod in the form of this bill that the government is throwing is late, underdeveloped. Well, why are we meeting here? Why are we fixing it, why are we changing it if it's so good? [[Voice from the room: It is not.]] There is a lack of real prospects for the future, but we only have a few months left by 2020. Therefore, Senator and Ladies and Gentlemen, the point is not that we should exchange political pinches here. That's not the point, because it's serious. There should be a full House of Senators and a solid debate about the future of Polish energy, because this is a debate about our environment, this is a debate about the future of our businesses, this is a debate about prices in our stores. This is a very serious debate, so let's not get ahead of ourselves and stop this accusation. Notice the seriousness of the situation, the real threats, and let us support ourselves in seeking good solutions. I think that's the call, Mr. Marshal. It's not the first time I've reported him, so... it would be good for the Senate Bureau to take this into account. I'm afraid if there's no decisive return here, the cost of omissions will be simply gigantic.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u66	Time's up. Thank you, Senator. Senator Rulewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, energy, subsidies, regulations and investment development are the leading topic here. The second thread of this debate, which you introduced, Senator Pekkis, was the attempt to repair this energy through pumps. I understand that you can pump... But you were talking about pumping public opinion against the free market. Otherwise, it is a popular view in my neighborhood, half of Torun. Then it was announced that Polish best and Poland maintains the European Union by pumping billions of zlotys into it. However, I would ask that you, in your energy diwags, undoubtedly correct and supported by deep knowledge. He didn't go to... I know a little bit about pumps. They're energy-related. Until recently, Poland was flooded with pumps not German, but Danish. Grundfos is a company that has been conquering the world market for decades. Energy and pumps... I'd rather say carbon and pumps. Yes, it does. The pumps have gaskets in them, and the gaskets are made of rubber. Rubber is produced in the chemical industry, and the Polish chemical industry was based on coal energy, but not only, because also about certain Nazi solutions. They didn't have gas, so they were producing synthetic gas. For the production of gaskets - the most important element of the pump, at least as far as its efficiency is concerned - is used either rubber or carbon rubber. In Poland coal gums were produced, but they were leaky, they got out, they were already taken after a few turns, and that's why they stopped... And why the chemical industry in Poland, among others. "Stomil" plants in Bydgoszcz, couldn't he produce? Because it was carbon-based. Carbon energy is too expensive and too uncontrolled in chemical processes. Maintaining a boiler room, adding coal, even with shovels, especially in winter, in the chemical industry is not a solution for these times. In these considerations, there is another mistake - you led us on such a tourist and trade route, invading Texas, Moscow or the Donetsk basin, where coal is extracted, and pumping into the public the fact that American gas is several times cheaper. Mr Naimski has recently appeared before you, and he has not gone so far as to say that American gas is several times cheaper. All he said was that the price was affordable. The price at hand does not mean a price which is several times lower. [[It's not American. It's Norwegian.]] Norwegian, yes. I'm sorry. That's what you said. But they also say American gas is at an affordable price. I'm asking you a question. Can you answer me in the clours - how is it that 16 European countries with very developed economies, efficient, which also means cheap products or relatively cheap, buy this Russian gas? How is it that the largest companies in Europe, including the world's largest chemical company - I don't know if he produces gas seals, sir, buys Russian gas. Can't they count? Are these fools succumbing to some evil Russian propaganda? Just because they can count, BASF is able to conquer American markets. It would be good for us to learn. If you are delighted with the American power's opinion - you have the right - it is worth knowing that the gas in America is not selling President Trump, there is not much to talk about here. American gas or oil are sold by private corporations and the President of the United States He doesn't even shove it in. All he can do is license, license. It is also worth knowing − that you will remember − that if the American President changes his mind, this gas will not get here because he will not grant a license. And it was. The US gas is not coming because of the export restrictions provided for in the law. So that I would offer here a little such openness, not a cut, and above all, to flee towards good, optimal energy, rather than pumping into public opinion the issue of wrong production of German pumps.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u68	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law amending the law - the Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1196, and the report of the Commission − in print No 1196 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] [[Zbysiu's coming.]] [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes break.]] [[Voice from the hall: How about Sharkoff, Mr. Marshal?]] [[The minority rapporteur...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Senator Silence is here.]] I ask Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to present a report to the Legislative Committee and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Commission at its meeting, which took quite a long time, because the changes are extensive, considered the law adopted by the Sejm and decided, Primo, to reject the proposal to reject the project, and secundo, to accept the draft with amendments proposed by the Legislative Office, and these amendments are several. In fact, they are mainly related to one more legal issue related to the question of the time limit for reopening the procedure. Namely, this law reduces the time limit for reopening economic proceedings until the years 5 and departs from the general principle of Article. 408 c.p.c., which provides for a 10-year term. After the Legislative Bureau has paid attention to the fact that this is a certain inconsistency, which has no proper justification, this has, of course, been taken into account. And the other comments. Like I said. They concern more editorial and technical issues than substantive ones. Of course, the discussion was Like I said. It was quite long, especially since there were a lot of representatives of various interested organisations and professionals engaged in legal professions, i.e. there were representatives of attorneys, lawyers. The discussion focused mainly on issues relating, first, to changes to the law enforcement system. Namely, instead of the current rule, that there is service to the address indicated by the plaintiff and if the consignment is not carried out, it is considered that the service has been carried out, i.e. the legal fiction is accepted, that there is legal effect, because it is assumed that the service has been carried out... It is now removed from this and the principle is introduced that if such a letter, i.e. the application, is not received and thus not served to the defendant, the court calls on the plaintiff to indicate the appropriate address, or to make the so-called. The bailiff's service, that is, by the bailiff. And here legal professionals, but also a number of organisations that were represented, paid attention to the risk of paralyzed proceedings as well as to the high costs of chamber service. They are set out in the act at 60 PLN. The bailiff should receive such a remuneration plus another 10 PLN, there is such a lump sum, 10 PLN, if he does so more than 10 km from his seat. This is the first case. The second issue, also very important, which has been discussed, is the issue of judicial costs, and in particular It's a primo. Their heights. Court fees have increased significantly. In fact, I've been through this. They've increased about 2.5 times. Secundo, the consequences of the failure of professional attorneys to pay the court fee. Namely, the principle was introduced that if a professional representative does not immediately pay the required court fee, the remedies, i.e. appeal, complaint, are rejected. However, if a double fee is paid within a week of the delivery of the order for rejection, then the appeal procedure will take place. To be honest, in the discussion, I pointed out that such a regulation concerning the rejection of an appeal once existed and here, in the Senate, on the occasion of the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code, we removed this regulation, declaring it unjustified, because it deprived the party of access to the judgment, i.e. access to the court, because of a completely secondary circumstance, which is the issue of the judicial charge. After all, the process is about resolving a particular dispute, and the court fees are a certain addition that exists to cover the costs of the judicial system. By the way, in some countries it exists, in others It doesn't exist. When I talk to my French colleagues and I say that there is such a thing as court fees, they wonder very much and ask: why are there court fees, whether there are no taxes in Poland and why do you have to pay for the fact that courts are running cases? Well, it's regulated differently in different countries. This is also an indicator of how to approach court fees. It's a matter of fees. The next issue that has been discussed is the question of the existence of a requirement... It's not new, it's just slightly modified here. It is a matter of requiring a professional attorney, whether a lawyer or a lawyer, to pay attention to the court, and it is mandatory, to violate the procedure under strict conditions of inability to make such allegations about these infringements in appeal proceedings. Here it was noted that I do not hide that I raised this subject, among others. I, because other colleagues, too, do not need to impose an obligation on professional agents to watch over the action of the court, which, moreover, seems to be a kind of embarrassing situation for those representatives who are to draw the attention of the court to infringements of the procedure. We've pointed out that sometimes it's unnecessary for the party to conflict with the judge, in fact, the proxy. Because there are different judges with different sensibilities. Sometimes someone thinks it's a violation of his judicial dignity when a proxy dares to point out that there's some kind of malpractice. And I would like to point out that the effects of this are very important for the parties to the proceedings. Namely, if the professional representative does not pay attention e.g. that the court unduly rejected the application for a specific proof, e.g. for questioning a witness, making a vision or making an experiment, then in an appeal it cannot be alleged that this evidence was not carried out and was necessary to clarify the circumstances of the case and to give a proper ruling. Thus, this kind of procedural formalism may even be an obstacle to reaching the material truth, which is probably the case. Third line. In fact, I am returning to the costs again, only this time, not related to the court fees on the remedies lodged, but to the introduction of a certain novelty, namely the introduction of an obligation to pay a court fee of PLN 100 from the application submitted to the court to draw up and provide a justification for the judicial decision that has taken place. It was pointed out here that this is a novelty which causes unnecessary complications, because the effect that someone does not pay the fee is similar to the fees I mentioned earlier, i.e. that forgetting to pay the fee on this application may close the court way, because then it will be unacceptable to recognise the remedy. In addition, it was also pointed out that the justification for the judgment was actually the moment when the judge showed reason and argument, which is very important for the party, because depending on the arguments given there, the party either decides to appeal or does not decide. Therefore, avoiding a reasoned judgment by introducing such a requirement does not seem to make much sense. I, since I have been a lawyer for quite some time, would remind you that once such fees on the application for the drawing up and delivery of the statement of reasons existed. They existed under the Law on Judicial Costs of 1967. The 2005 Law then resigned. Well, thank God it's been 14 years and it's worked so well that those fees weren't there. The Minister, of course, presented his position, accepted all the amendments proposed by the Legislative Office, but did not share these cost-related reservations related to the obligation for experts to review the court's proceedings and to draw attention to its procedural deficiencies. He pointed out that often requests for a statement of reasons had been submitted in advance, hastily, because it did not entail any costs. As regards the issue of court fees, the Minister argued that more could be required from professionals and that, therefore, such restrictions as rejection of an appeal, if there is no charge, or possibly the imposition of an obligation to double that fee, if, after rejection, someone decides to uphold the appeal, he considers that they are justified. And that's pretty much it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u70	Thank you, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to warmly welcome the Chairman of the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly of Vietnam with its accompanying delegation in the Chamber. [[Applause]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question... But before I ask questions, please take the floor of Senator Rulewski as a minority rapporteur on the same matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The minority proposal seems harsh because it says that this law should be rejected, but my speech serves to soften this procedural procedure, because there is no other one. Previously, we, the authors of the minority proposal, voted in favour of the amendments prepared by the Legislative Bureau. However, we have finally made this proposal, and although only two senators have been approved in the vote, we are still inclined to support it today. In fact, my esteemed previous speaker, the rapporteur of the majority proposal, Senator Cichoń, should be in favour of supporting this proposal. In fact, today he raised the issue that this great legislation, this great initiative on the Code of Civil Procedure, requires a great deal of consideration and raises reservations As he rightly said, and as it were, he justified what I said. The current legal professionals, i.e. the Supreme Bar Association, the council of legal advisers, bailiffs and other entities that I do not remember, but which have accepted this conviction presented at the beginning by the Minister, that this law is not against someone or for someone, but for something. Namely, in his explanatory statement, the Minister said that this is about speeding up procedural activities, improving the quality of the procession, facilitating And this is so doctrinal, I would say, ideologically for the weaker side, as well as the discipline of the participants in the process, both parties, attorneys and the court itself. And in fact this is a real challenge, which, it seems, the Minister presented in the assumptions, because the number of several million cases that are overdue, which arise during the action of the justice system in Poland... This really needs to be repaired, but the instruments that you have applied to the Minister in this bill do not necessarily agree to this general expectation. I'll start with what my previous speaker wasn't talking about. Either he forgot, or I didn't hear it right. Because the representatives of these chambers, who will eventually be recipients... are to be recipients of this new legal arrangement, are, above all, accusing too short a vacathio legis. In certain provisions But let's be honest: these less significant changes have a period of 14 days, and in extreme cases, in the case of these more difficult regulations, 3 months. They prove that this period of vacathio legis, however, goes beyond the requirements of the Constitution. I would agree to this, arguing it with such a specific philosophy of processes in Poland, not only legal ones, in which it is generally accepted that the preparation of some act, some construction or some economic process is a matter of trivial, invisible, unattractive and unnoticed attention. The most important thing is the process that is now going on, because it certainly arouses public interest. How soon can we deal with this decision? Well, we'll manage very quickly. On the contrary, it is particularly difficult in many developed countries in Asia, America and other European countries where preparatory processes are very difficult. That's the kind of example I'm going to use... It does not concern the legal path, but I suspect it could have been even longer there. Well, when in a country I will no longer mention the name because it raises bad reactions here, because it was intended to introduce a 1% increase in VAT, the process of investigating this increase lasted 2 years, because calculations had to be made. And even more... Senator Mammoths in this area is known as a good... The process of raising the retirement age lasted in the same country for 5 years. Well, not to mention Brexit... Finally, in a country that we like and whose name can be mentioned, in England, the process of investigating brexitu takes several years and it is not yet settled. And here we are dealing with a legal act that regulates... which is the subject of universal use in millions of editions, because so many Poles stand on the court's stand either alone or in the company of attorneys, but certainly with the participation of the court. So the quality of the preparation of this law... This allegation that too little time is given to implement it is, I think, sufficiently justified. And I don't know... Minister, I would like to ask you right away: is there really such a force, such a necessity that it is today, now, with these doubts To say no: negative conclusions Do you want me to take it? I'm saying no. Therefore, the justification for this proposal was to wait, to work hard enough to resolve the doubts that Senator Silence so faithfully gave. And that's my general question... I'm supposed to be famous here. Well, we're above the codes at all, over something that constitutes the essence of our relationship... It is not the power of citizens, but the citizens of citizens, citizens of economic operators, citizens of institutions, not necessarily public. Why are we making this decision so fast at night? And yet, as I understand it, the minister's ambition I know that Minister Piebiak is an ambitious man. It is important that this code lasts for many years, for many years it has been passed. Especially since he's accused the last crew hasn't done anything in eight years. Well, that's an argument for the next team to do something that no longer needs to be corrected. What other objections were there? Of course. I think that's part of the story, but I'm interested in it. The waiver of the obligation to write a justification by the courts and introduce a fee, if I remember correctly, 100 PLN. In fact, it's a novel. It's a novel. That hasn't happened yet. The Minister proved it. I do not reject this argument. That often the cheap institution, i.e. writing an act at no cost by the courts, occupied, as I remember, 1/3 of the court's working time. If we could speed this up, if we could relieve the courts, it would be for judgment. That argument is correct. But there's a question about the rights of all those who want to get it in writing. The second institution, which I will say a little more about, is the introduction of a new institution for the provision of information. It's known to all of us, because it's probably often... It is about providing information about the action, informing the court about the action and about the lack of effectiveness, i.e. not receiving an avisa, whether conscious or not, and even misuse of it by those who direct the action, in order to obtain an economic effect, or profit. A new institution is being created here in the form of bailouts. Ugly speaking, maybe I'm simplifying a little: the bailiff will become the court's runner for effective service, effective notification. Let's add that the bailiff's call is going to cost 60 PLN. Analyzing various maintenance cases, and therefore civil, however, but from the family code, I find that this is going back to the Middle Ages, although in the United States there is even an institution of direct lawsuits in the pocket. In my opinion, I say this on the basis of my observations, the institution of the physical bishop who is handing out an action will neither be effective nor, as it turns out, cheap. Maybe it'll satisfy the courts to use such an instrument. What's the solution? It's a technique. Minister Piebiak, I am talking about what is your concern. You've talked a lot about this service. In one country, fortunately not starting with N, or not with Germany, this is solved by technology in the Danish country. Each citizen has an e-mail address, an e-mail address and such an address at any time, on Saturday, Sunday So it's shorter and undoubtedly cheaper, because it doesn't cost anything. It is sent by court, public and tax correspondence. And there's no refusal. There's no need for confirmation either. It's just that everything is delivered. Every citizen has an e-mail, and that's where the lawsuit goes. And the lawsuit is deemed accepted. Another solution that was questioned and presented here by Senator Cichoń is the matter of not reading the sentence if there is no one in the courtroom. I mean, it's simple and logical, and it's reasonable, but it can happen in situations where for different reasons... It doesn't have to be read because there's no obligation, but some people might want to use it later. After all, today you document such things on a tape or as video files, so you can use these forms. If I remember correctly, representatives of the Senate can benefit from these forms of support. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This motion is not a veto to your actions. She's asking for more and better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u72	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. No such questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Łukasz Piebiak would like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Shortly, although the project is long and extensive. A very lively discussion took place yesterday afternoon and evening at a committee meeting. I would like to remind the House of the main principles of this project. This, I think, is the biggest proposal in history to amend the Code of Civil Procedure, a key proposal accepted by the Lower House, which in fact relates to the whole process that is provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure. The main idea that goes through these rules is to speed up and streamline civil proceedings. As the senators have already mentioned here, this is an extremely important piece of legislation for the public. The criminal code or the criminal code is perhaps more, I would say, spectacular, but fortunately we don't have such a very large and small percentage of citizens are criminals, relatively small Injured. However, every citizen will sooner or later face a civil court and every citizen must be concerned that this matter is not only properly recognised, but also efficiently. This is what the constitution requires, Art. 45: Everyone shall have the right to hear the case by an independent court without undue delay and within a reasonable period of time. And that's what it was all about when we were preparing this amendment. I think if it's passed, our predictions will be confirmed. What do we have inside this document? We have, for example. Restoration of a separate procedure in economic matters Something extremely important for the efficiency of economic turnover. From the way the economy works... Fortunately, it works well now, but this economy also depends on the courts, and prosperity depends on a well-functioning economy. All of us. The removal in 2012 by the previous coalition governing separate proceedings in economic matters was evidently confirmed by statistics on the efficiency of judicial proceedings. Economic courts have slowed down, but these cases are getting more and more complicated, because economic development is causing this. It can't be like this, I think it's obvious. According to the same rules, the court will assess small economic disputes, very complex economic disputes or consumer disputes for defective shoes or for unpaid gas or electricity bills. A separate economic procedure is very important. It is also important to see what was once overlooked that economic disputes are a very diverse category of cases, just as entrepreneurs are very diverse. There are small entrepreneurs of individuals, there are kioscars, self-employed shopkeepers, who, of course, cannot be compared to large corporations in any way. This amendment sees this, it seems obvious, allowing such entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs entered in the business records, to settle their disputes according to normal civil procedure. So, actually, thanks to this amendment, you're giving the entrepreneur a choice. If he feels up to it, he may be in this more difficult but quicker economic procedure, and if he does not feel up to it, then from a procedural point of view he will be able to be treated as a consumer, just as a person who has never carried on his business. We hope that the restoration of economic proceedings will stimulate Polish economic judiciary and will serve the economy well. A very important issue The rules that no one has ever formulated, namely anti-obstructive rules. We know that we are dealing in civil processes also with those who use instrumental procedural powers to stop the process, i.e. they use various types of obstructive techniques. If the court doesn't have the tools to fight this kind of technique, then it's really innocent, it's someone who's unlucky to deal with someone who's dishonest, with such a smart-ass trial. And all participants in civil or economic processes will confirm Judges, but also lawyers or lawyers That there are situations. The great disadvantage of the current code of civil proceedings, the version that is in force, was that the court was actually helpless against such tricks performed either by the parties themselves or, unfortunately, sometimes by attorneys, lawyers, lawyers. The court must have the tools to combat such reprehensible practices, which is why such tools are envisaged in this submission. Another group of issues, which is important, are issues relating to the special protection of these weaker parts of the civil process, especially consumers and just small businesses, which I mentioned just now. Well, it can't be the same as it is today, that a bank, that a great entrepreneur, that a corporation, using the instruments of procedural law, leads to a dispute before a court competent for a bank, for a corporation, not a court competent for the consumer. So it's not enough that we're dealing with a completely uneven financial position and any other party. Because on the one hand the bank, and on the other hand the man who makes the average national or minimum national It is still the instruments of procedural law that are in force today, which will cause this to take place in the court of the bank, I do not know, in Warsaw, not in Przemyśl or in Szczecin, where the consumer lives. Well, that can't be right. The standards of procedural law should not lead to such situations and we introduce the possibility for the consumer to choose and settle his case before a court competent for him. A big businessman has the opportunity to adapt and adapt. If he wants to enter into a dispute, let him judge where the weaker party lives, not where he is based and where it is more convenient for a large entrepreneur. Of course, there are also issues that the senators have mentioned here, the issue of service, some of the issues of fees, some have increased, some have decreased, it is not that they have generally increased. I think we're gonna talk about this again, but I'd like to talk about this issue of the bailiff's service right now. Well, it can't be like that. And all those critics have to admit it. The fact that today's situation, in which procedural law rules are often used to harm vulnerable parties, is commended. We know of cases like this. Also from the perspective of the Ministry of Justice, because complaints of various kinds affect us The postman doesn't even have the opportunity to see if Kowalski or Malinowski lives in this multi-family housing building, he throws an aviso into the box, after 2 weeks he returns to court as unsubscribed, the legal court and the man who often doesn't know in any way that he may have a trial, often absolutely innocent to anyone, learns from the bailiff that he has a debt that he has an occupied bank account, that the bailiff is knocking on it. Well, that's today's reality. Just watch any intervention program on any TV, because TVN, and TVP show such programs, and Polsat, and a few others. In fact, there's a thread everywhere. And we know that this particular section of the lawsuit won't speed up. Yeah, but this is about fundamental issues. Well, it can't be that the law approve of fiction, the law allows you to use legal instruments to hurt people. And it's already a very big problem to undo this situation at the stage of the bailout. This is often impossible in practice. Indeed, this passage If the High Chamber backs this amendment, It's not gonna speed things up. But this solution will protect the weakest, make it difficult for all kinds of smart people, sometimes even criminals, to use the standards of procedural law to obtain undue benefits. However, the bailiff is an official person, a person who has certain obligations relating to the performance of service has what the mailman does not have. Therefore, it is certainly more secure to serve the bailiff, it is a real service, not a fictitious service, which we are often dealing with today. And speaking of what Senator Rulewski said... I think there's gonna be a moment in the future. Let's hope that the nearest time when we get to this Danish stage. There was an example here... We'll have some universal address for official service, maybe traditional, maybe just e-mail... But the Ministry of Justice isn't working on it because it's the Ministry of Digitalization that's responsible, so to speak, universally for solving this problem. And I hope he's untied. But it can't be that we all focus here on young, dynamic, familiar with computers, mobile phones and smartphones, and people who are digitally excluded, living somewhere in the country, elderly people who don't know what a computer is, don't see how to turn it on, we're going to have to say, please, grandma, here's an e-mail address and there'll be a payment order or an official decision delivered to grandma. Well, you can't abstract from reality. Maybe the Danes, maybe the Estonians are on a different level. And there's security over there, too. So neither can we say: we are not interested in elders, we are not interested in people with certain limitations, we are only interested in those who manage. This isn't the government's profile, this isn't the ministry's profile. Therefore, in this passage we really put our emphasis on real protection of people's interests, even at the expense of seemingly slowing down. I therefore ask you to support this submission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u74	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to the representative of the government, Minister Piebiak, in connection with this item on the agenda. No such questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you again.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This will not be a story, this will be a reality, and I would like to emphasise that at the outset. Law and Justice also followed the programme of speeding up judicial proceedings, reducing this biggest problem, the chronicity of proceedings. The previous team, contrary to the Minister's assessment here, has done a great deal. And here could be a great litany of actions in which I also had my share. But I'm going to talk about one fundamental and fundamental issue. The issue of restoring constitutional assesura. In fact, as a result of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, on the basis of a specific case, found that, however, the asessor who applies the arrest is not an independent judge, there is no quality of independence, the assesura has been abolished. Assessors in the district courts settled for 70.70% Make it happen, and that was the problem. I had the pleasure of working on this project. Ultimately, it was a presidential project that was adopted in the previous term. You had an instrument to speed things up a lot. It was necessary to find such a solution, such opinions... of constitutionalists who would agree that the form that was presented in the previous term is a constitutional form. So, among other things. Assesors were excluded from the jail and, as I would remind you, the assesors were excluded from the issue of being a commissioner for bankruptcy. These two issues were considered to be the most difficult and require the greatest experience. Well, the assailant adjudicates, yes, and after the proceedings can sentence up to 10 years imprisonment, but in order to apply detention immediately, in a short time, after 48 hours and sometimes several hours, he must have great experience. Now you're making a proposal to the Council of Ministers... I just want to show you an example of some gross inconsistency. You want to put an end to bankruptcy proceedings... I mean, in bankruptcy cases, you want to introduce a referee instead of a referee, even though it was mentioned earlier that these are the most difficult proceedings. Well, it's not exactly a matter of today's presentation. Today's presentation... Well, what's the reality of these four years? The fact that at least 30% of the proceedings have extended in terms of the length of court proceedings. That's the reality. Even though you had an instrument when it comes to assesaurs. You didn't use him, and I'm not going to say why, it's a separate issue, it's a waste of time for this discussion. I'm talking about certain facts. That's the situation. Now, at the end of the term of office, of course, without the participation of the codification committee, which normally prepares codes, which is fairly, seriously... The criminal code was prepared the same way. You made a lot of amendments here in the Senate, and earlier in the Seym you claimed that this was an excellent submission that no codification committee was needed, because why wise men or professors, masters are more experienced and know more than experienced professors. The situation here is similar. Many circles, as Senator Cichoń also said, many lawyers and lawyers, and let us remind you that these are corporations that work not only for the benefit of the defendant, but also the plaintiff, i.e. representing the parties on two sides, demands... What are they demanding? Of course, they demand swift action, but the parties and the citizen demand a fair judgment. This is why, inter alia, and perhaps mainly because, in 2012, the special procedure for economic matters was replaced by a separate one. Because procedures can't stop the truth. Formization must not lead to the fact that parties, sometimes as a result of unpredicted actions, do not have the opportunity to investigate and investigate the truth. This isn't about formalism. In 2012, separate proceedings were abolished. I will say more: it should be aimed at ensuring that separate proceedings are as low as possible, that there are general rules, because the citizen is lost, not every citizen is represented by a professional representative, and often and professional representatives have problems for which the defendant or the plaintiff should not be responsible. What are you doing? You are restoring a separate procedure, so strongly criticised in 2012. And then you were in favour, and you voted to put up with separate proceedings. But you bring them back. Of course, as I say, you have to take it down. In the first place, . Fair judgment, and not until the next It's a quick sentence. However, speed must not eliminate basic principles, namely the pursuit of objective truth. And it is not true, Minister, as you say, that in the case of billing or repair of shoes and economic issues there should be other rules. No, the rules should be the same. And there's no doubt about it. Practitioners don't have the slightest doubt here. Some decisions are good. They're good. I'm not criticizing the whole presentation, I'm not condemning it. I think it's called. Preparatory investigation, which is... There's an analogy to criminal proceedings here, I think it's right. There is a transfer of the inter-instance procedure to the ground of the second instance That's right. There's a lot of good records. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's only because the losing party has been punished to pay double the costs. The point is that he wrongly calculated the costs, so he has to pay a double charge, which automatically passes to the defendant. In short, this may be the case: the reason that I would like to say so, to the defendant, can specifically do so to pay this double fee, because it will still be... He can do that if he knows the case has a win, he gets a refund, and the defendant gets it. Well, that can't be, absolutely. Well, it's bound to... This is complete injustice. This cannot be the case. And such examples That's what Senator Silence said here, Senator Rulewski. There's a lot, unfortunately. This submission should be refined. And there should be a hearing of representatives of science gathered in legal corporations who have an opinion. After all, it is also in the interest of the lawyer to close the proceedings quickly, because the client wants the matter settled as soon as possible. It's pretty obvious. Therefore, it is very good that philosophy changes e.g. In such a way that it is determined, it is ordered to determine the next days... [[Time.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal, that's the last thought, the last example. ...so as not to postpone for six months, because the pages... This is a very good way of thinking. Very often, judges do not conduct proceedings in order to avoid the charge of the chronicity of proceedings, but do so. activities and e.g. You're questioning the witness again so it's called... let's just say she doesn't remember what was there six months ago, etc., etc., so please remind me again. You have to concentrate the material, it's obvious. So the way of thinking is right, the idea is right, but absolutely not all solutions deserve acceptance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u76	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this law is aimed at improving and speeding up the procedure. Indeed, regulations such as these need to be appreciated. those relating to the so-called. procedural foams, i.e. regulations from the article. 1911, according to which, on the basis of the content of the application itself and the attached annexes, it can be assessed that the action is manifestly unfounded that the court is not admissible at all Then the procedure to be followed in place of the one that now exists... The rule here is that the defendant is not even served on the defendant, only the court gives the judgment in which the case is settled, i.e. in a very short, summary procedure, the case is settled. Without all these procedural requirements relating to the service of the action to the opposing party, the planning of the hearing and the subsequent holding of the hearing. We know from practice such cases, I can cite them. In Cracow there is a gentleman who has over 500 cases on the run, which are conducted with his actions against various persons. Sometimes he looks at someone and thinks that this man should have such an organized life so that he can put himself in court about a few times a month. And the courts are very often powerless, they conduct proceedings that take a long time. That's one thing. Second thing. What I also view as a particularly positive solution is to make it a maximum objectivity in the recognition of cases by courts. I find it very useful to consider this solution, which eliminates the existing possibility... even the duty of the court of first instance to decide whether an appeal should be rejected because of certain shortcomings or not. At the moment, we are making a change, and it will be solely the responsibility of the second instance court. This will prevent situations that are unfortunately occasionally occurring. I myself, as a lawyer, have dealt with such a situation that the court, not wanting to allow an appeal to be heard by the Supreme Court So it was a court of the rank of a court of appeal that could be required a little bit more. He tried to reject the cassation complaint on this pretext that I had allegedly submitted an incorrect mandate. Well, of course it was completely absurd. As he finally wanted to file a cassation complaint, the Supreme Court, with a great bang, of course, repealed the said decision, which was the subject of an appeal, but, as I say, the case was almost two years behind in the appeal court. Now, of course, such a case will be decided by the court to which the appeal is addressed, i.e. in the case of the district court. The Court of Appeal and, in the case of a regional court The district court. And that's a very positive solution. Finally, we also need to assess positively what the Minister was talking about, so that we are finally taking the defence of weaker people by amending the rules on judicial jurisdiction. Well, it can't be that someone who is an entity that is economically weaker and thus weaker than the ability to use professional attorneys would go to the other end of Poland to pursue their own claim, and his opponent, financial potentate, whether it's a bank or some other corporation, most often in the capital, good lawyers, sometimes several. Well, this poor man is almost a prank in the hands of such financial tycoons. We, introducing the property of the place whether the claimant's place of residence or the place of performance of the contract We cause the case to be kept close to his place of residence. And this is the element of justice that needs to be emphasized. [[The alimony analogy.]] Well, there's an analogy here, as you rightly say, Counselor Zientarski, to the proceedings for alimony, where you can bring an action not necessarily at the defendant's place of residence, but where there is a person entitled to these alimony. Ladies and gentlemen, these are really very positive things, which is why you can applaud the solutions that are being introduced here. And actually, praise our government and parliament for joining us. But of course, as in every work that is big and difficult, there are some issues of debate here. These are the ones I have already mentioned and which have been the subject of concern especially for professional representatives during the discussion that took place yesterday. Well, you have to make sure that these shortcomings, in my opinion, are not the proverbial spoon of the earth, which will spoil the whole wonderful barrel of honey, which is this change of procedure. Unfortunately, such a risk is because, as far as the regulations concerning the rejection of an appeal are concerned, for the reason that an appropriate fee has not been paid by a professional proxy, such risks are. Well, why should we close the court's way just because it's not a matter of substance, but a sideline, because, as I'm saying, costs are a sideline issue in one country. they exist, in others, for example. In France, there are no... Well, why should somebody have a closed court road for that reason? Eventually, he will be open to the court if he pays a double of the costs he originally did not pay. For me, this is inconsistent and incomprehensible, and unfortunately I must regard it as a violation of the right of access to the court, finally guaranteed and Article. 45 Constitutions, and Art. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights. It is simply a measure which does not remain in any proportion to the purpose of the procedure. The purpose of the procedure is to investigate the case and cannot be regarded as some purpose of the proceedings of the alleged acceleration of the procedure. As I say, there will be no acceleration, because if this measure is rejected, you can expect a complaint and a whole procedure that will last much longer than it did in a situation where, as it was before, the court calculated the amount to be charged, called for payment of the fee, the case was simple and there was no dispute against it. I would also like to draw attention to the case law of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, such as the Poitrimol case against France. The Strasbourg Court considered that the rules of procedure, although not civil but criminal, which provided that if the sentenced person was not in custody to serve a sentence of imprisonment, the cassation action made by his lawyer would not be recognised, would infringe the Article. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights. The Court said that, yes, respect for the justice system and for the judgment which should be enforced and which requires that this convicted man appear to be serving a sentence of imprisonment, since it is already valid, and only before the Cassation Court, the equivalent of our Supreme Court, can still be fought, is certainly a dragon's value, but it cannot exceed the value of the right of access to the court. May we not really go on such a dead end here in the name of supposedly speeding up proceedings or creating some high standards of attorneys. I would remind you that plenipotentiaries should boast that they know the law and know the procedures. And the issue of judicial costs is a secondary issue, which is only accidental in relation to the essence of the process, and it cannot decide whether or not someone is to be allowed to continue the process, i.e. until the second instance. I think it's a serious mistake, and I'm pointing out that it would be a return to the river we once came out of because of the Senate. 'Cause it's because of the Senate... [[Yes, sir.]] I don't know if there are colleagues here who were senators at that time... [[They're here, ……]] In 2008, with the very lively support of the great authority of Senator Romaszewski, I recall, we removed the provision of the article. 3702 §3, which contained an analogous regulation, i.e. stating that appeal measures shall be rejected if the appropriate fee has not been paid. And today we come back to this, with this slight change, that you can get to second instance, if you pay a double court fee. Well, it's a half-center and a pick that might justify the thesis that there's no definitive shut-off of access to further proceding. But I think it is. It's highly, highly questionable to justify. I hope we don't get to see the moment that the Strasbourg tribunal points out to us. 'Cause I'll remind you that we lost a few cases of court costs, even if it was a Kreuz case, in which a man's right of exemption from court costs and a public defender On the grounds that he should have raised sufficient financial resources for this purpose, he was concerned that he would have to proceed with the trial, and that he had been criticised by the Court. There were also a number of other cases, in particular concerning the granting of an official representative. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I allow myself to make amendments here on these cost issues, as well as on this issue of a gold court fee in the case of a request for justification, as these are regulations which, in my opinion, are unnecessary and constitute some kind of withdrawal, a step back 11 years, until such regulation was and fortunately we changed in the Senate. I also make a proposal to amend the provisions concerning the unfortunate, in my opinion, the obligation of the lawyer to draw the judge's attention to the fact that he is violating the procedure, which, in my opinion, is an unnecessary antagonization of the participants in the proceedings. As long as I'm an attorney, it never happened to me after such attention. What I do with heartache The court struck its chest and said: Mr. Counselor, you are right, therefore I am changing the order of evidence and I am allowing evidence. It didn't happen to me, as it did to any of my colleagues I've been talking to, that case never happened. There are also other issues that I have allowed to present here. As I say, we have a good regulation that goes in the right direction, but let's get rid of those elements that are a spoon that can spoil the taste of the whole regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u78	Thank you. Mr. Senator, make adjustments! You'll have to leave the amendments here. [[I'll make it up. Yeah, yeah.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. And I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals submitted? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm actually very brief. Amendments are tabled, with a positive opinion of the committee, mainly of a legislative nature. Mr. Senator Silence first referred to them. The government's position is positive against those amendments that were approved yesterday by the overwhelming majority of the committee, perhaps 9 to 2. But as far as Senator Silence's amendments are concerned, They're known to us. The government's position is negative. That's all there is to the project is the fruit of a well-thought-out work. This work lasted over 2 years, so it cannot be said, the argument cannot be used that whatever is being done under the influence of the moment, unthinkable that the Ministry of Justice does not take into account the voice of practitioners. I'm just gonna take a very shortcut here and say yes. Indeed, Senator Cichoń was the author of the fact that in 2008 the Senate repealed the provision of the article. 1302 §3, which provided for the rejection of wrongly paid letters without notice, if they were letters, e.g. appeals or complaints brought by lawyers or lawyers, generally professional representatives. And that was the original submission that we're going back to this just to dynamicize the civil process. And, of course, we only address it to professionals. Well, there's something different about a lawyer or a lawyer, a high-class professional, from a person who's been involved in a trial and not a lawyer; to her, the legislator can't formulate such expectations. But in the course of the debate in the Sejm, we withdrew and decided to propose This has been accepted by the Sejm, which is the possibility that if someone miscounts, because it does not work, does not read, does not check, and yet is a professional, it has the opportunity to improve. There has to be some kind of sanction to motivate legal action and allow for a quick process, so it is simply an obligation to pay a double fee. Of course, all activities are performed by a lawyer or lawyer for a client's account, but it's just a consequence of a mistake. In fact, if a lawyer or a lawyer made such a mistake, he should, in my opinion, lay out that amount out of his own pocket and not burden his client with it, because it is only a consequence of an error of due diligence in the pursuit of his professional activities. Just as there is another measure of diligence that the legislator expects, and rightly so, e.g. from an entrepreneur, especially a large entrepreneur, it cannot be the same that the civil process treats a person who is a physicist, a chemist or a farmer, and a lawyer who is a member of a local government, is highly qualified, pays contributions, and finally has insurance against civil liability precisely so that when he makes a mistake 'Cause we're all human. He had someone to pay. As far as the article is concerned. 162 c.p.c., i.e. the fact that a lawyer or legal counsel is to signal to the court that the court is making procedural errors, that is the regulation that is in force today. The point is that the High House should not be misled, because it certainly was not presented on purpose. It is today, since 1965, that everyone, also a layman in a civil trial, is obliged to signal to the court that the court is making procedural errors. This is a solution that is actually difficult to explain, because a lawyer or legal counsel should know the code just as well as a judge. Or almost as well as a judge, but not a farmer, a chemist or anyone who's not a professional. So the project doesn't sharpen anything, it doesn't introduce any additional restrictions, it doesn't impose some kind of sharpening that wasn't there. The project soothes. Soothes, High Izbo. The draft amends the provision of the Article. 162 of the Civil Procedure Code in such a way that it exempts laymen from the obligation to signal procedural irregularities to the court, but leaves this to lawyers or legal advisers. Yeah, those guys know and see. And I can't imagine that a lawyer would be afraid that a judge would croak, that he would take revenge on a lawyer or a lawyer for saying, "Mr. Judge, Judge, such a provision is appropriate, and therefore I am signaling that the court will change the procedure, or that I will raise it in the middle of an appeal." Well, a lawyer or a lawyer can't only do it, but he should do it. And I remind the High House that civil court hearings are mandatoryly recorded, so if any judge... And that can happen, of course, and I don't rule that out, because this is a mass of 10,000 people - better, worse, in better or worse condition of a given day in the courtroom. So if a judge behaves against what we expect as a society from judges, we have material ready for disciplinary action. So I can't imagine the situation here that the judge is gonna threaten professional agents by being filmed with a camera. Mr. Senator, Mr. Counselor, you don't believe that you or your colleagues are going to be threatened by judges, so let's not talk about it. And the question is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And the question is... [[It's a... a... a... ……]] And the question is... Oh, no, no, no, no, no. [[Voice from the room: Right.]] ...let's be serious. [[I'm sure he'll be kind.]] Let's be serious. Many times as a judge, I have had such reservations. With a smile, I asked you to put it on the record. We'll see, the court of appeal will judge. I really don't see any problem in that. Next: justification fee. The introduction of fees that weren't there is never gonna please you at first glance, because it would be best to have everything for free. But if it is so that for free it is used in a way that is not intended and actually hits the possibility, as Senator Rulewski said earlier, a smooth settlement, this cannot be tolerated. We have big debt collection companies, we have mass reasons, we have these big entities that don't run 5, 10 or 20 processes, like individual legal counsel or someone who has 1 or 2 cases at the same time that are going on. These are entities that run 5,000 cases at the same time, 10,000 cases, 20,000 cases. That's the level. They don't come to trial, which is a problem for the court, because it's hard to find out anything, they don't send their attorneys, they don't even check if there's a conviction, whether there's a benefit or a disadvantage to the party. They send in the dark writings without even checking whether there was a ruling or not. Find out in any court. That's just the way it is. They send letters when the computer system tells them they have to send a letter because some trial was this and that day in a court of law. It's free of charge, so they're asking for a justification. Because it doesn't cost anything, it's less work, it's less spending than taking a phone and calling the court or sending an applicant, or checking the IT system where the court presents what's going on in the case. No, you don't do that because it doesn't work, because it's a big debt recovery business. Therefore, thousands of such requests for reasons are sent to the court. Courts write justifications instead of e.g. to rule on matters that are on the vocands or to prepare for these cases, in a situation where such a debt collector will not complain, because he only filed it to see what his sentence was. Well, it doesn't pay off, it doesn't calculate to initiate in-house control anymore. The judges, High Izbo, are dealing with a significant part - the senator rightly remembered that we judge this about 1/3 - by writing justifications for judgments. If we eliminate even some of these reasons - where there is really no need, because no one wants to complain about this decision, or for those who have won, they just don't know it, because they didn't want to test it - then we will relieve the judges who will be able to focus on the next issues. Well, either-or. Either we release the judges from unnecessary activities or not, and this 100 PLN will be counted against the complaint fee or the appeal fee, so the economic burden will be zero if someone really wants a reason to complain and not to read it. And in order to determine why the court has ruled, as it has said, I'm almost done. There is an institution for announcing a judgment at a public hearing, i.e. the so-called. oral reasons for the decision. The rewrite doesn't eliminate it. Just come, even out of respect for the court, and hear not only judgment, but also oral motives, why the court ruled as it said, but if you do not want to do so, then the court will not preach to the wall or oral motives or judgment. And it's hard for him to make excuses for free. And, of course, always at the end of the day for the poor, there is an institution for exemption from legal costs and it can potentially cover all legal costs, including 100 PLN for justification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u80	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We therefore proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Environmental Protection and the Act on Crisis Management. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1206, and the report of the committee In print No 1206 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Alicia Zając, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Representatives of the Ministry of Environment! Dear Minister, I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment from yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committee on the process of amending the Act on Environmental Protection and the Act on Crisis Management. The majority of the votes of 2 Senators were opposed to the joint committees decided to recommend the adoption of the law without amendment. The Act concerns the acceleration of the process of eliminating risks related to environmental pollution, as well as the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of a complaint by the European Commission against the Republic of Poland concerning non-compliance with the requirements laid down in Article. 13 and Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 23 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 on air quality and cleaner air for Europe. The committee was also attended by representatives of voivodship authorities who claimed that changes to speed up procedures could cause difficulties in meeting these deadlines. However, in the opinion of the Ministry, as well as of the majority of committees, it is appropriate to accelerate from all angles, because it is so that Poland is the best monitored country in terms of air pollution from among the countries of the European Union. In the element relating to crisis management, which is also covered by this law, it is an obligation to present the current state of the air, as we can see or read on the Internet ourselves. Here I must commend the Provincial Environmental Protection Inspector in Krakow, who controlled all his municipalities in the field of preparation for air protection programmes. Krakow has also taken far-reaching steps already now, in the current programme of Clean Air, and the content of particulate matter and other harmful substances that are in the surrounding air has been significantly reduced. The chief environmental inspector present at the meeting reported his willingness to cooperate with regional governments in the preparation of planned air protection programmes. Also the Institute of Environmental Protection, which has data in this field. These data are available free of charge to local authorities, both the chief inspectors, regional inspectors and the Institute of Environmental Protection, which is very helpful in planning further steps. I would like to say that many contracts have already been concluded with voivodship funds and national environmental funds for the implementation of the actions set out in the Clean Air programme. So far, around PLN 1 billion has been allocated... These agreements contain such amounts and the plan is planned for the next 10 years. I think we are well prepared to carry out tasks related to the Clean Air programme, and that is why this law is very much needed. It was accepted by the Sejm on 13 June. I ask the High House to accept it, in line with the suggestion made by the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, without any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u82	Thank you, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any such questions. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of legislative work. Would Minister Henryk Kowalczyk like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Florek reporting. Minister, please come to the podium. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u83	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, why is it so sudden to speed up the work on this bill now? Why is vacathio legis only such that the law enters into force the day after its adoption? Why such short deadlines, or before it was not known that action had to be taken here? Maybe I'll ask you a second or a third question, 'cause I can see no one's gonna be willing... As regards the air protection programme, at the meeting of the committee in which I participated, there were doubts raised by the voivodship authorities. The point was that in order to prepare this air protection programme, they have to use public procurement, and there is this financial assembly, i.e. the national fund of 80%. , as you said, and the voivode of 20%, and if local governments don't have these resources, they can't take action, so it's gonna take some time... In turn, the terms in this law have been shortened, and therefore the question is whether there is any concern that they will not be able to... Besides, just now, you're... [[Maybe in the second round, because the Minister won't remember.]] All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u84	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u85	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The first question is why so quickly. I'd say it's pretty normal. But what is the origin of this bill, what is the need for this bill... First of all, it is important to mention the judgment of the European Court of Justice, which pointed out that Poland has violated the standards of air cleanliness. Although this covered the period 2007-2015, such a judgment was given, and it was also a call to speed up the work on air protection in Poland. As a result of this sentence, the Polish government... Not only as a result of this sentence, but also as a result of preparing earlier... Having Changed Thinking About It Clean air and the elimination of pollutants, dust suspended in the air, is an important task We have been preparing programmes to support this. No, among others. One of these major programmes is the Clean Air Programme, which was announced after the judgment of the European Court of Justice. This programme has been appreciated by the European Commission and among others. As a result of this programme, the European Commission has not taken any further steps with regard to the judgment, i.e. the statement... Once a normal infringement has been found, a further step is the imposition of a financial penalty. With regard to the appreciation of our programme, the Commission has already waived further steps, i.e. the imposition of a financial penalty. Our actions have been appreciated, although the fact is that backlogs have occurred many years ago and still occur. Such an evaluation element, this evaluation fragment, was also the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which also pointed out very clearly It was a report for the years 2007 and 2016 that we violated the standards of air cleanliness. After this judgment, the European Commission looked forward to speeding up work and mobilising local authorities to develop air protection programmes more quickly. Because it is the task of local governments. This meeting with representatives of the European Commission was probably on 18 November 2018. As a result of this meeting, the Polish government declared... whether I declared This could be said because on behalf of the Polish government I spoke with the European Commission at the time that we would speed up such work. And since then, work has been taking place on this law, on speeding up the preparation of air protection programmes, on mobilising local authorities to develop these programmes. At the same time, we are implementing the Clean Air programme, but not only because there are other activities of the type of introduction of standards for solid fuel boilers, i.e. a regulation on quality standards for solid fuels. So there are many more actions. Car emission standards have also been introduced, because this is also related to it. emissions from automotive fuels are the main cause of smog in the centers of large cities. The electromobility program was launched, initially for public transport buses, with the aim of air protection in the centers of large cities. The pace of work is quite large, of course, but relatively normal. From January since December of the previous year, during these several months... Of course, the legislative process that is required includes both consultation of local authorities and public and inter-ministerial consultations. So we are doing this fairly quickly, first of all, in order to complete this honourable declaration to the European Commission that we will prepare such legal solutions by 30 June. From here, it's acceleration. Of course, in the Act we also accelerate the implementation of the obligation to prepare air protection plans by local governments by 3 months, except that we recognise that these are not the first plans for air protection, so it will be a bit of a modification... We will provide, free of charge, all data from the monitoring stations at the disposal of the Chief Environmental Officer. This bill, of course... Although the pace is not slow, I do not think that there is any too crazy or fast - all the consultation criteria have been met. I would like to remind you that the Joint Committee on Government and Local Government has also accepted this law, which is a positive opinion. Going back to that question about self-government and concern for financial resources... Of course, voivodship authorities, which are obliged to develop air protection plans, can benefit from the financial resources of voivodship environmental funds. The question was, did 20% There's someone... Because one voivodship fund is 80%. The other one's 90%. Of course, if such needs arise, the voivodship funds can also give 100% financial resources for the preparation of air protection programmes. Local governments have one year to prepare these programs. We oblige them to prepare these programmes by 30 June 2020. Of course, this is not a very fast pace, especially since... well, if we provide all the data, it will be possible to do so. At the same time, we are mobilizing local authorities to address air protection programmes, because this is important from the point of view of local authorities, and most important from the point of view of the health of the inhabitants. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u86	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u87	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am pleased to congratulate you, Mr. Marshal, on your choice and that I am the first person to be able to speak to whom you have given your voice after recommending you to... [[Thank you very much.]] Minister, you spoke about this program, Clean air, so on this issue, briefly. We know there's blockages, there's a problem. These are EU funds and we cannot lose them, these are very important measures. And the question is, how did you take the distribution of these measures? Aren't we in danger of spending this money right now? I'll just mention that Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin recently met with the residents... I heard him say that the clean air program didn't work in practice. I would therefore like to ask whether this programme is working and whether it does not require significant adjustments. You, in turn, mentioned that there are local governments who have come forward to support these actions... But is that enough? Especially since they do not seem to have any funds, they will not receive any aid for this purpose. Is this enough for this clean air programme to work and for us to make use of these EU funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u88	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Mr. Senator! I would like to point out some of the things that have occurred in public space because of the misunderstanding of the financing mechanism for this programme. The Clean Air programme at this stage is implemented only from national funds from the national environmental fund and the voivodship environmental funds. The European funds in this programme are foreseen, but in the financial perspective, for the period 2021 to 2027. We are, you can say, a year before the negotiation phase, the establishment of the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment, to which we have entered as a priority the Clean Air programme. These negotiations have not yet been started. I'm calming down no EU money they will not be lost because this EU money is not being spent on this programme in the current financial perspective. They were destined, and the decision of not our government, entirely for other programs, was spent... The expenditure for the 2014-2020 period ends. This has nothing to do with clean air. It is for the sake of calming down the EU's resources. The European Commission does indeed have comments on the distribution of these funds and on their destination, but the time will come for these matters about a year from now, during the negotiation phase. We are in constant dialogue with the European Commission. In order to expand the distribution channel of these funds, we invite local governments on a pilot basis, so that it is He called it a voluntary program... If this piloting thing works, we'll expand it. We will analyze, estimate costs and very likely, after a few months of this piloting, local authorities will be fully involved in the implementation of the Clean Air programme and in the distribution of funds. With regard to the current performance of this programme, over 60 000 applications for over PLN 1 billion have now been submitted, 23 000 decisions have been issued, i.e. resolutions of the Management Boards of Regional Environmental Funds A few percent are, unfortunately, negative decisions, that's usually the case. More than 16 thousand contracts have been signed. So this program works. The establishment of the scheme that applications are dealt with within 90 working days... These deadlines shall be respected in all cases so that the implementation of this programme is carried out in accordance with the timetable. Probably some people would expect it to be even faster, and more conclusions, but I think it's the way it usually is with the start of every program. The best ambassador for such a programme, the best promoter, is a neighbour who has already received funding. Let's wait for the results. You can already see them, because payment applications are already several thousand and payments have already been made for several tens of millions of zlotys. I remember that in the case of the Rural Development Programme, following Poland's accession to the European Union, farmers submitted their first applications with great caution, had to be waited and encouraged. And in the next editions, the queues were already created in front of the agency's offices. I am convinced that such a mechanism will also work in the case of the Clean Air programme. The funds received by the neighbour will be the best incentive to submit proposals. So this program, I think, is going according to schedule. Just because we're setting up a thermomodernization, an exchange of furnaces for 3 million buildings doesn't mean that in the first year there'll be 300,000 of them. It's probably gonna be less. But in the coming years there will be more because others will follow the good example of those who have received these funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u90	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1198 and the report of the Commission In print No 1198 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Maciej Łuczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday we held a meeting of the Committee on the Environment, at which we discussed amending the Waste Act and other laws. The amendment of the Waste Act of 14 December 2012 results from the need to clarify urgently the provisions relating to the functioning of the database on products and packaging and on waste management, in short BDO, on the extension of which, among others. intensive work is taking place in relation to the creation of registration and reporting modules, as is apparent from the justification for the bill. The essence of the amendments proposed by this amendment is to remove the provisions relating to the use of paper form from the Wastes Act. The Act provides that the paper form of waste records, reporting and applications for entry, updating and deletion from the Register shall be removed from the register. Therefore, clarification of the rules on the functioning of BDO as an electronic system. The written form of the submission of applications will only be available to foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons involved in economic trade who have not established a branch in the territory of the Republic of Poland. During the committee meeting, the legislator tabled 5 proposals for amendments, including one editorial comment. All these amendments, with the approval of the Minister, were accepted by the committee. I would also like to add that in the second reading, 20 amendments were tabled at the 80th session of the Sejm on 12 June. These amendments were also of a more precise and orderly nature, they were adopted and the Sejm passed a law in the form of a government proposal with amendments proposed by the committee. 422 Members voted in favour, 5 against, and no one abstained. The Minister also informed that within a few weeks tests will be carried out on the implementation of this base for use. So that I ask you to adopt the law in its entirety with the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, rapporteur! My question is that we have been observing for a long time that we have become a dumpster of Europe. Of course, we have seen this through journalists. Why are we so late in dealing with such a burning problem when it comes to our society?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u94	It seems to me that the law, which will be in operation from January next year, will certainly provide more monitoring for different types of waste. Are we doing this late? Well, it's hard to tell if it's late. I think you'll tell the Minister. I don't think it's late. At the committee meeting we heard many positive voices about the base that is about to be set up. As I said, the Act enters into force on 1 January 2020. I think she's gonna sort things out and eliminate the illegal entry of trash into our country.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u95	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u96	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I'd like to actually say two words. The question was why it was so late. I think it's worth going back to the history of this bill. The waste management base has a long history, and efforts to create it have indeed lasted many years. The first law appeared probably in 2012. It was supposed to set the way to the waste management base. Multiple attempts by the previous government to build a base ended in nothing. In 2015, the law was modified by moving the date of its entry into force, which is really moving the construction of the waste management base by the next years. I'm not judging the reasons, but I'm stating the fact. Unfortunately, that's what happened. Of course, the next shift caused nothing to be done. I understand that there have been attempts to build an external company, and IT tenders are very difficult to carry out. Perhaps that was the cause. We've changed the concept. I've been the minister of the environment for over a year now, and I've changed my mind. We're not trying to make tenders. To build the base we use our own Institute of Environmental Protection, a research unit that is directly subject to the Minister of Environment. That's why the work has accelerated so much. Work on building the base over the last year has gained such a pace that we can actually say with full responsibility that the base will be launched to a very basic extent, namely waste records. Of course, it's already in place when it comes to business records, but this... It is not enough to register, to indicate that you are an entrepreneur producing or producing waste. The most important modules are those that will record the waste and track their route until disposal. That's why we need to change the bill. The aim is to introduce up-to-date, very real deadlines for the implementation of the waste management base, to impose an obligation on entrepreneurs to record waste electronically, to move away from the form of paper reporting of waste that has so far been functioning, namely the building of waste cards, etc. After the start of operation, this base will indeed be a very effective tool after 1 January 2020 to track the waste stream, even to gain knowledge about imports and imports. Although I have a completely different opinion on the issue of import. The laws on waste introduced in July last year absolutely prohibit the introduction, transportation of waste from abroad. Besides, we're effectively countering it. Attempts to import were met with a strong response, among others. Four thousand tons of waste has been returned to the UK. But let's not confuse things. Any consents issued by the Chief Environmental Protection Supervisor are consents to the introduction of secondary raw materials which are by definition waste. An example of junk. The scrap is by definition waste, but it is also an excellent and valuable secondary raw material, which is why imports of this type of waste are, of course, carried out. Such prohibitions cannot be introduced. These are waste which, as secondary raw materials, have the right to be transported in the European Union. Of course, they are waste in their definition, but bringing such waste... they have nothing to do with commonly understood municipal waste. Since July last year there has been an absolute ban, and the import trials have been effectively stopped, the waste has been returned, exported back. The base that will be created will be an even better, excellent tool to control this type of waste stream.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I can't imagine anyone against this bill. However, I always think that lack of knowledge is the greatest cost. Don't you think that when it comes to training those who will be responsible... Well, the bill should clarify and order a lot of things. Don't you think it's too small a volume of time to finally train a crowd of responsible people? I repeat, lack of knowledge, enormous losses and costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u99	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. We anticipate time for training, mainly entrepreneurs who will use this base, will fill it and will be logged in to this base. Internal testing of the waste management database is expected at the turn of July and August. External start-up, i.e. training for entrepreneurs, for users of this base, will be carried out since September. I think over three months is quite enough time. This is not going to be a very complicated issue, and businesses are currently filling out waste cards, except in paper form, of course, then they will have to get used to logging in the system, etc. But these three months... Well, we think it's time enough. If it is worked hard, it should be effective, such that from 1 January 2020, once the waste has been recorded through the waste base, it will be working well. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, one sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u101	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u102	My question, however, was in this direction... The idea was that those responsible would not defend themselves as if they had not possessed this knowledge. That's where my question was headed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u103	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u104	Mr. Marshal, I hope this is the time that should completely dispel these doubts. I'm sure both employers' organisations, entrepreneurs, waste producers... Moreover, there are declarations of various types of chambers and economic associations regarding their willingness to cooperate in this regard. They said that they would be very happy to cooperate in the organisation of trainings, instruction on the use of the waste management base. We recognise that the estimated time, over 3 months, is a time which, assuming an active approach, should be sufficient. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u105	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions to ask. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Władysław Komarnicki made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. The text of the act is contained in print No 1201, and the report of the committee In print No 1201 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the work of the committee on the amendment of the Act on agri-food promotion funds. The Act provides for the creation of a new fund, a Fund for the Promotion of Oleist Plants, aimed at promoting marketing, increased consumption and promotion of oil plants and their products resulting from the processing of rape, turnip rape, soya, flax and hemp, as well as honey, flower pollen, propolis and bee milk. The proposed amendment to the Promotion Fund Act, which responds to the demands of the oil plant industry, envisages the creation of a Fund to promote, as I have already said, marketing, increased consumption and promotion of oil crops and their products from the processing of rape, turnip rape, soya, flax and hemp, as well as, what is very important, bee products. Support from this bee product fund, which is a particular expression of understanding for beekeepers on the part of rape producers, is worth emphasising and justified due to bilateral relations, including the impact of bee activity on the quality of rape crops, whose share in the national oil plant area represents 95 and 97%. Bees, by pollinating rape, increase the yield by between 10 and 30%. The Fund is intended to support actions to inform about the quality and characteristics of, including the advantages, oil plants and processed oil seeds and bee products, activities to promote consumption, participation in exhibitions and fairs, market research, research and development to improve the quality of oil plants and their preparations and products and to increase their consumption, training of producers and processors and the participation of national industry organisations, including their representatives, in the specialised work of permanent and working committees of international organisations or members of the statutory bodies of those organisations, dealing with problems of the oil market or bee products. Payments of 0,2% will be made to the Oleist Plant Promotion Fund concerned. net value of oil crops subject to tax on goods and services. It is estimated that the annual impact on this fund will amount to nearly 8 million. 15% This appropriation is intended to cover the promotion of bee products. The promotion fund will only be managed by representatives of industry organisations representing agricultural producers and producers of processed products operating in the oil plant sector. Promotion funds played a positive role in the promotion of Polish food, contributing, of course, together with many other factors, among others. to increase the value of Polish food exports to more than EUR 30 billion. The solutions proposed in the bill will further increase the food security of Poland, increase the incomes of farmers, increase the competitiveness of Polish agriculture and reduce the deficit of feed protein. The Commission has unanimously adopted the proposed amendment and I am asking for its adoption in the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to represent the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Tadeusz Romanczuk is with us. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1200 and the report of the Commission In print No 1200 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report from yesterday's meeting of our committee on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms. I would like to say that the committee unanimously adopted the law without amendments and we ask the High House to support our proposal. However, at the meeting we discussed this law quite strongly. The Legislative Office had some comments. The Ministry considered that this law could function without any significant amendments. This is a matter of glitches that will not disturb much, and if changes are needed in the future, the Ministry will consider them in the next amendments. I must say that today this labelling system is voluntary. If necessary, economic operators who want to label, and so far they have... One could say that there is such a voluntary system today. He's a good example because the Minister is a milkman, so he's a very good example. If someone wants to buy milk without GMOs or butter without GMOs, it's a GMO-free stamp, which means that animals are not fed genetically modified feeds. If, therefore, all the standards imposed by the dairy are fulfilled, this can work. But now we have a law, and the law clearly states that it must be carried out... that there is also a duty, in case of doubt, to examine whether there is compatibility or not. Previously, there were no such imposed regulations. It is here just like in the case of the previously adopted Polish product law. The entities used the Polish Product label, and now it is standardized by law and must meet all requirements. That stamp, which was, fell out, and if anyone wants to use the "Polish Product" sign, must comply with all the legal regulations that are in the bill. The same is true in this law is the 2-year period of investigation to change the marking. Therefore, someone who will comply with the standards can apply the mark "GMO-free product" on the basis of this law. That's all I have to say. Certainly consumers who today want to choose products marked with this mark I stress: voluntarily, it is not imposed They have the possibility to identify them more easily. In the case of products which contain GMOs, in accordance with European Union law, it is mandatory to record that these products, plants or others, contain GMOs. Where there is no such labelling, this means that all products are GMO-free, and often consumers would prefer to have a clear label, because these warehouses, etc. they are written with such a small muffin that it is not always possible to read whether it is a GMO product or without GMOs. That's why I think this is such a commercial approach that responds to consumers' wishes... Because consumers in most, and in Europe, and in Poland, do not want products that are made of GMOs. That's it. I ask the High House to support me. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u109	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Minister Romanczuk, wish to speak on this matter? No. Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act of the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 1204, and the report of the committee In print No 1204 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present a law on the amendment of the Act of the "Teacher's Charter" and some other laws. On 25 June, the amendment proposed in the Act was adopted at a meeting of the Joint Committee on Science, Education and Sport and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The aim of the Act is in particular to introduce solutions aimed at improving the prestige of the profession of teacher. The aim of the Act is to introduce a salary increase for teachers, to introduce an additional start-up benefit for young teachers, to introduce provisions in the Act setting out the minimum amount of the education allowance and to shorten the path of the teacher's professional promotion and to return to the principles of assessing his work before 1 September 2018 taking into account the opinion of the parents' council. As a result of the changes made from 1 September 2019, the average salary of teachers will be increased by 9.6%. The provisions of the Act also provide that the trainee's trainee's internship for the degree of contract teacher will receive a one-off start benefit of PLN 1 thousand. This benefit will be paid by 30 September of the year in which the teacher started his internship. In addition, the Act indicates that a teacher entrusted with the role of a class educator is entitled to a functional allowance. This allowance will not be less than PLN 300. At the same time, schooling bodies, which are local government units, will be able to increase the minimum amount of the allowance for the performance of class educators by means of remuneration regulations. With regard to the teacher's career promotion and the assessment of his work as a result of the changes made, the mandatory deadlines for assessing the teacher's work will be abolished. The mandate to define detailed criteria for assessing teachers' work by means of the Regulation will be repealed. The criteria for evaluation of work will be set out in the Teacher Card Act. There will be a separation between the evaluation of work and the promotion of teachers. In terms of career promotion, the evaluation of the teacher's professional achievements for the period of the traineeship will be restored. The provisions on the allowance for distinguishing work for qualified teachers will be repealed. This change is a consequence of the departure from the obligation to assess work and to change the criteria for this assessment. There will be a shortening of the traineeship when applying for a promotion to the degree of contract teacher up to 9 months. There will be a reduction in the periods of school work necessary to start the traineeship for a further degree of professional promotion up to 2 years before the beginning of the internship to the degree of teacher appointed and to the year before the beginning of the internship to the degree of qualified teacher. The examination before the examination committee for the degree of contract teacher will be replaced by the interview carried out by the selection board. In addition, legislation on the promotion of teachers in Polish schools will be adapted in line with the changes made in the professional promotion of teachers. Provisions have been introduced which limit the possibility of abuse of fixed-term employment contracts concluded in relation to the need arising from the organisation of education. The provisions on the accountability of teachers in order and disciplinary matters have also been clarified so that responsibility for the conduct of offences and the child's well-being is not qualified as a liability in order. I ask the Senate to accept amendments to the Teacher's Charter Act without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u111	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would ask that question, Minister, but I see that the Minister is not here, and I will try to ask the Senator of the rapporteur. Well, I attended the committee meeting yesterday. First of all, the point is that there was a protest of teachers, and it probably started in January, and it was clear what the situation in schools was. And now such a sudden acceleration at the end without consulting, without cooperating with the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission, because there was no such meeting. And local governments, both the Polish Towns Association and the communes' union, protest because they believe that unfortunately, it will be the responsibility of financing these changes. Now what is it? The point is, of course, there are new tasks there, e.g. the internship allowance, which clearly follows from the law, should be financed... It's an art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, which says that changes in the tasks and competences of local government units follow with corresponding changes in the distribution of public revenue, etc. There was therefore a question to the Minister about how the raises for teachers will be financed. And the Minister replied that there would be no change in the budget, only within the department. And so there was a question to the Minister: where are the big funds in the education department? There must have been 1.3 billion zlotys. Where are the savings going to be? Where are these shifts gonna be to finance such a big raise for teachers? Local governments do not believe that this funding will be sufficient, and they fear that they will bear the cost again. It was emphasized that they had incurred significant costs, even in the order of 50% as regards the recent changes that have been made in schools, in general as regards subsidies for municipal authorities, to education that they are in the range of 40 and 60%. So they're still afraid they're gonna be... Therefore, the question is: what about financing? The fact that the raises are promised, you know. Why this mode of operation is known Because the elections are soon and the right raises for teachers, which should have been before, which could have been... That's when they were gone. And the question, then, is, what will be the financing of these raises for teachers?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u113	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u114	Mr. Senator, maybe I'll speak to you one at a time because you raised a few points. The first point is the question of the talks which, as the senator said, They don't roll. I would like to remind you that there have been talks in broad circles of trade unions, government representatives, various groups of stakeholders. On 7 April 2019 an agreement was signed between the government party and the representatives of the National Education and Education Section of the NSZZ.Solidarity. The agreement was signed during these talks and the parties agreed to speed up the salary increase and to introduce an additional increase from 1 September 2019. In this explanation, I would also like to refer to... because it's as if I'm going to what you said there was no raise. I would like to remind you that the first increase was over 5% in April 2018, the next increase was in January 2019. It is also 5%. The third tour of the increase was planned for January 2020 and this was also expected to be 5%. As a result of these arrangements, we decided not only to accelerate the salary increase from 1 September but to increase this increase, which will amount to 9.6% from 1 September. It's to sort things out. As regards issues related to additional youth benefit That's what I call it. 1 thousand PLN to start for each teacher who will start the promotion This will be paid from 1 September. The Minister made clear yesterday that there were assurances from the Ministry of Finance that there would be decisions to move funds from the reserve. That information was provided by the Minister yesterday at the joint meeting of the committee. So, Mr. Senator, just so we're clear, the raises were, and now we're introducing a third tranche, which is up to 9.6%. Is there anything else I haven't written down that you asked me? If so, then please... But I think those were the lines.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u115	Are there any further questions? Senator Shark. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u116	Thank you very much. Senator, I have two questions. If there's a problem, I'm asking you to redirect the question to the Minister, okay? [[Okay, here you go. Yeah, yeah, if you don't...]] Because what I'm saying is... you were talking about shortening your career promotion path... [[Yes.]] And this is a return to the pre-September 2018 rules. Then, despite the warnings of all the environments and teachers themselves, trade union representatives, you changed those rules, and now you're back to those rules. What is the reason to return to them or to change their positions? [[Like I said before...]] And the second question... [[Yes, please.]] And second question. I mean this extra benefit for young start-up teachers. This witness was also before, and now you are back to the same. Is it also a confirmation that it was a wrong decision to adopt other rules on supplementary benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u117	Thank you very much. I will, of course, try to answer, unless the Minister completes it. As I said earlier, the government side, together with trade unions and other stakeholders, including local governments and teachers, agreed on some changes. Of course, we are returning to what was, i.e. the evaluation before 2018, but taking into account the opinions of the social groups, mainly teachers. Yeah, it's at the request of teachers, trade unions, which is why we're going back to those rules. With regard to the path of career promotion, we shorten this path and now this path will look like a teacher who will start an internship for the degree of career promotion... For the teacher appointed this required period will be reduced to 2 years and this will be one year before the beginning of the course for the degree of the qualified teacher. As far as this question is concerned about the additional start-up benefit, there has not been such start-up benefit before. There was a development benefit. We're not backing out of anything, we're introducing a start-up benefit for young teachers who are starting work. Here, too, we meet the expectations of teachers who start work. We want to contribute in this way to the attractiveness of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u118	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, I would like to ask if you had the opinions of the trade unions during the committee's deliberations on the draft law. Were the opinions of the trade unions presented during the meeting? That's the first question. And the other. Was there a discussion on these union comments? Relationships make all kinds of comments here. I think the senator is familiar. And the third question. I remember that the senator was the rapporteur of this revolutionary law, which introduced a fantastic education system in Poland. Then I asked you as senator and director, a man experienced in this field, why you're extending your promotion time. Well, I'm not gonna quote that exact argument, but she was long, flowery. May I ask for a similar statement, an answer to the question, why are you shortening this time now? What happened at the time that the senator is now a hot supporter, as I understand it, shortening the promotion path, while when the first draft bill was presented...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u120	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u121	Yes, I'd like to refer to what you first asked. Opinions, comments on whether there was a discussion... Yes, there was a discussion. I keep going back to those conversations that were with the trade unions. The agreement was signed on 7 April. It is as a result of discussions with social groups that trade unions have developed certain principles and we have to follow these principles... Like I said, we cut the promotion path short. It was a clear request and trade unions and teachers. We just listen to what the various professional groups say to us. We introduced this in order to allow teachers a short career promotion path. We will continue to work at the round table, which, I remind you, was appointed by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, on very good solutions concerning both career promotion and evaluation of teachers' work. And then... I don't know if I wrote it down-- I think I answered everything. Unless the Minister adds something else.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u122	Are there any more questions? Your Marshal, Mr. Underneath.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u123	Thank you very much. If that's the question, I'm sorry, but I'm a little late and I don't know... I received a lot of questions from kindergarten teachers about so-called. Childhood allowances. This was the case so far and depending on the wealth of the municipalities ranged from PLN 100 to PLN 300. They are not foreseen in this amendment, which is what kindergarten teachers consider to be very harmful and clearly discriminatory teachers of this group of young people, with whom work is considered to be one of the most difficult. Does the senator know anything more about this? What's their situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u124	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u125	As regards the definition of the minimum amount of the class education allowance, this provision has been transferred to the regulation. There was a provision in the regulation. Also in the past, the allowance shall be payable for the performance of the duties of educator of the class. So that when it comes to this record, there's no change.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u126	Are there any further questions? Senator Czarnobaj volunteered. And then the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! Senator! I'm talking about preschool, so to speak. The fact that something wasn't there before, and now it's showing up and it's been moved... That's an argument maybe not very important, but there is one. Tell me as an experienced person when it comes to managing education, not referring to the fact that it wasn't before... Don't you think growing up in a preschool group is as important as raising a class in a school?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u128	Yeah, I think it's very important. This is a very important educational function.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u129	I was expecting an answer like that, and that's why the second question. Why haven't there been any extras for kindergarten upbringing?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u130	Like I said, there's a record that doesn't... [[He's been transferred, but...]] Yes, of course. Discussions are underway and the rules will be clarified. I think the Minister will explain the matter more. This wasn't discussed at the committee meeting yesterday, and I'm not authorized to pass on...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u131	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u132	Senator, what position did the Polish Teachers' Union take on this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u133	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u134	Mr. Senator, once again, I am saying that there have been ongoing talks with all professional groups and that, as a result of the agreement signed on 7 April 2019, we are making today's changes. And the Polish Teachers' Union - if you already ask - what I regret to say... [[Specifically.]] ...does not participate in the round table, where all changes, proposals, requests are discussed, which are accepted and on which the Ministry of Education will work. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u135	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u136	Did the law designers, apart from this round table, ask for an opinion from the Polish Teachers' Association?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u137	It wasn't discussed at the committee meeting yesterday, and I'm not giving...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u138	You're asking Senator Borowski a question. [[Thank you very much. I'm quitting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u139	I mean... I'm still sorry, 'cause here's a friend of mine who I'm so... The Polish Teachers Association of course participated in the work of the committee. For the record, all the groups concerned were present at the committee meeting. They were present and speaking. Anyone interested could have taken the floor... [[Voice from the room: How can you...]] ...on the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u140	If there are no further questions, thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Marzena Machalek, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education. Please, Minister, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Allow me to say a few sentences, extending or perhaps supplementing what Senator Margaret Kopiczko has presented. She said, I think it's pretty exhausting, but I think from our point of view, the Ministry of National Education needs a few things to be completed. Maybe I'll start with the mode because it was a question of whether this project was agreed. Of course, this project in the first version was a government project. As there was a expectation on the part of teachers of higher increases and that these increases could be realized in due time, i.e. by the end of September paid, the parliamentary procedure was adopted. I thank the Members for this, of course, because this will enable teachers to have their raises paid and to make appropriate adjustments in the budget and shifts. Thanks to such and not other entries in the Teacher's Charter, these increases can be paid out. And that's the essence of this mode. This mode as a parliamentary mode is a shortened mode. It would not be possible for the government project to introduce all the arrangements, although it is quite clear and quite obvious that this project was created as a result of social expectations. As a result of social expectations, this project has been created and will, I hope, be complemented by relevant regulations that will be examined in consultation with both the local government and the union. And the fact that they were not formally conducted, means that there have been no talks with local governments and trade unions, of course, is the result of an agreement, which has already happened here, with solidarity. I think, in the vast majority, this agreement is being implemented. We are aware that the expectations of the union site, not only in terms of teaching relationships, are always greater, but we are doing what seems possible today. And what I'm trying to say is that this is not our last word about teachers' salaries. Here we also asked why we were returning to our previous career promotion and why we were trying to change it. And I have to tell you senators -- senators and senators -- that if we were to have this discussion today, many of you would think that this path of promotion should be changed. But there will never be consent, there is no general consent... It is always the case that if some solutions are expected by parents, then the expectations of teachers and other local governments are different. Therefore, this initial decision to change the path of promotion, to extend it, was due to the fact that quite quickly teachers reach the highest degree of promotion of their profession, the title professor of education, is left practically such a void in terms of the possibility of promotion of teachers. Hence, this idea was quite positive and accepted by many parties, including the local side. He didn't get public approval, so we're back to the previous records, but I'm expressing openness here. I think we should all be open here. It is necessary to talk about the path of professional promotion of teachers, because it has been functioning since 1999 and is not ideal, has many shortcomings. We need to sit down again, discuss it again, and adopt some solutions, so that it's a promotion that's pro-quality, not just reflecting a teacher's internship. And this conversation is ahead of us. Probably all the critical voices that will be here will be right, although sometimes they might conflict with each other, because there will be as many opinions as there will be people to discuss. Both in terms of promotion and in terms of the remuneration of teachers. I'm gonna go back to growing up. This is really a matter for a system solution, because... we often emphasize that. I remember that as a Member, as a member of an education committee in which I worked for more than 10 years... Education law, education system law, the Teacher's Charter are repeatedly amended laws and it happens that their interpretation is not unambiguous. We are aware of the imperfections of these dozens Maybe even more of them were. The amendments and hence we have come up with such an initiative that we are implementing. We've created a law of education, a law on funding educational tasks, a law on supporting a child and a student, but these records aren't exactly perfect. And now I'm going back to the record on the function supplement for my upbringing. This is an allowance for a class educator. We leave this record, we move it to the bill, because it comes from a union agreement. We add here that the supplement is to be no lower than 300 PLN. In turn, the class teacher, what I'm explaining here... It's about teachers doing this job at school, it's kind of... We appreciate that value. What I'm saying is that only 3% of teachers were over PLN 300 when it comes to school teachers. Because when it comes to kindergarten educators, their point of importance is more... It's less educational. Class teacher is this additional function Not every teacher in the school is a teacher. In turn, every teacher in kindergarten is an educator, so here it needs to be separated in some way. That is why there is work to be done to clarify this. Here we determine the smallest amount of the education allowance, 300 zlotys, but these are subsidised tasks. Schools receive funding for salaries, local governments receive a subsidy. In turn, kindergarten is the task of the commune itself, so we did not want to specify it so precisely at the moment that the local authorities would not get the task which is financially unbearable. But in the future, there will be no obstacle to these local governments... Probably more than 60% of local governments pay an allowance for their upbringing, only that amount can already be freely shaped. We realize that it would be ideal if all teachers were to raise their wages very high if even this supplement we give was higher and applied to everyone, but we had to accept some solutions. We have a discussion ahead of us on how to clarify these provisions in the Regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u142	At present, senators may submit questions to a representative of the government on the agenda from a place of no more than one minute. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Your Marshal, Mr. Underneath. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u143	Minister, a little from the teacher's point of view... Teachers are concerned not only about the course of work on a project supposedly improving the teacher's material situation, but also about the fact that local governments are burdened to a large extent with these increases. I will just add and remind you that many teachers work in local governments, and in their opinion the local authorities are overly burdened. I will return to the question I asked the Senator of the rapporteur about this upbringing. What do you mean, class educators? Does this mean that only primary school teachers will receive this allowance for their upbringing and preschools will not? But there was this extra in kindergarten, wasn't there? Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u144	I tried to explain. Senator, the record is the same, we don't limit the rights to the supplement. The wording in the regulation was: class upbringing. This is now transferred to the level of the law and we add that not less than PLN 300. In this situation, local authorities can, of course, pay allowances for kindergarten teachers. We specify that the hard duty is to school teachers, while preschool education can be, so far, because 70%... of the local governments paid it out in more than 60%. The next step will be to clarify this in the provisions of the Regulation so that it is clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u145	I understand that, depending on the wealth of the municipalities, these allowances will either be or they won't be. Yes? Well, that's where we come in as part of the functioning of local governments. You know what it looks like in different local governments, and teachers demand I think you're right. That's fair treatment. After all, working in kindergarten is no easier than working in primary school and in others. Doesn't that affect me to say... I don't know, the feeling of those teachers who work really hard in kindergartens?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u146	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u147	Dear Senators, of course you can always create better regulation, wider regulation. At this level it is absolutely beneficial regulation, 70% teachers of schools receive an increased allowance. You're worried not all of us, but... It so happens that the school is a task paid with subsidies, and the kindergarten We can impose this 300 PLN, add to those tasks that are subsidised... But here we leave the gate to local governments, given that this funding does not come from the state budget, so that they can shape these allowances themselves. Would we want more? Of course, all of them. I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher all the time. On leave in connection with a duty And I'm always very respectful about the teacher's work, and I always say that it's... I was a Polish teacher. It's the hardest job I've ever done. In primary school. So is the work of a educator. We meet these expectations of teachers. They're not 100%. Well, we figured that's the best the local government can do, and we can somehow compensate for that, for example. The effects of the raise... We have the assurance of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance of a definite amount. They will be financed mainly by additional subsidies. We can't impose tasks on local governments right now, especially unsubstantiated institutions, which they may not be able to afford today, but that doesn't mean they can't pay... Besides, I kindly inform you that education is a common task of government and self-government. There are local governments that can pay even bigger allowances. The amount of PLN 300 is the amount of the minimum supplement in terms of education, so that local governments can pay a larger supplement. There's no harmonisation here. We can also talk about whether all teachers should earn evenly or whether salaries should be differentiated. There are very different opinions about this. The roundtables of the different environments show very clearly that teachers' salaries should be differentiated, that they should depend not only on their work experience but also on the quality of their work. Differentness always arouses a sense of injustice, but this injustice involves the fact that some part will earn more. I think it's definitely beneficial for most teachers. We have a further discussion on how to reward teachers at all. If we were to start now discussing how wages are shaped A basic salary, allowances, this would turn out to be such an anachronistic system, so imprecise and so emotional that in many cases I could admit that you are right. Only when we sit at a table with local governments, when we sit at a table with unions, then, believe me, it turns out that even in the bosom of trade unions, depending on what professional group in education they represent, are conflicting opinions. And we need to find some measure that doesn't satisfy everyone, but it will be a clear move forward, a clear improvement in the situation of teachers. Is 21% Increases together, since 2018 is not enough? I don't think it's a teacher's dream increase. I am convinced that teachers often earn less when compared to other professions with similar education. I don't think there's any discussion about that. But 20% In such a short time it's still... I'm pleading here for Minister Piontkowski's words because he was checking it out. This is the highest increase since 1989. This is negligence since 2012. Right away, we're not gonna change that in a year, and we're not gonna improve the situation of teachers. I guess anyone who cares about the welfare of their students and the welfare of their country knows that the school's teacher stands and that a well-educated... We need to discuss who goes to universities, how universities educate, how we have a motivational system that allows really good teachers, outstanding graduates to go to school and so that they can stay in this school. These are really big issues to solve, because for years, it has been a profession that has been undervalued both financially and... The prestige of the teaching profession after the 1999 reform has fallen very seriously. We all need to take care not only of the prestige of the profession financially, which is of great importance, but also of social prestige. I can assure you here. As a multi-annual teaching teacher at a large school in a small town, understanding the situation of the professional group That we take care of the raises. Like I said, it's not our last word. I'm sure all the comments that the senators are making here are well-founded. Not all demands can be met immediately. We will take into account in further discussions, such as a change in the way teachers are rewarded and promoted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u148	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u149	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You are always talking about the years 2013 and 2015 but let's remind you of the years 2008 and 2012 when there were significant increases for teachers. This must be remembered, because it was a moment when salaries actually increased significantly. You say, Minister, that everyone will gain. Well, that's true. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: They will not lose.]] Of course, everyone wants to make more money, there is no doubt. The only question is where to get the money from, where it's supposed to come from. And here are the concerns of local governments about the fact that there is no money for increases and that the costs will be transferred again to local governments. That was the opinion of local governments. You said there'd be budget corrections... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: Yes.]] ...that there will be shifts that there will be more money for education subsidies. Transfers, as we know, can only be made within the department, i.e. between chapters and paragraphs. So I have a question. If you can point to... I think we were talking about a billion 300 million, if I remember correctly. Where's the money coming from? Where's the savings coming from? Who are you going to take the money to make these increases without changing the budget? I would remind you that local governments also have their budgets, they also have a budget adopted for the whole year, and they would also have to change the budget in order to possibly develop the additional resources you were talking about. Then where are you gonna get the money? I understand that for the next few months, so by October, they'll be enough, but what happens next? Where's the money coming from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u150	I'd like a brief statement, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u151	All right, Mr. Marshal. Like I said, there'll be shifts. And it will be the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. I'm authorized to say And that's what I have to tell you. That these changes, which will concern budget transfers, will not be an amendment to the Budget Act, but will be made within the Committee on Public Finances, and will be prepared by the Minister of Finance. We are waiting for decisions, proposals from the Minister of Finance. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki at the round table assured that the money would be there.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u152	You're asking Senator Borowski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u153	I will refer to the Minister's statement on those 21 percent increases that were supposed to be the highest in history. Well, not what Senator Florek said. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: In a short time...]] Well, in a similar short time, those raises were 40%, so... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: No.]] I'm not saying 21%. It's worthless, but I would suggest not to spread that view because it's not true. And if anything, I would point out that these are raises. And the government has always referred to it, the Ministry has always referred to it in 2017. You don't know what's next. 21% spread over 3 years that is on average below 7% annual, while wages in Poland rise above 7% Annually, the relative situation of teachers is deteriorating. And that's all I wanted to say. As for quotas Did the Ministry estimate what amounts have to be transferred this year in the form of additional subsidies for these... How much will it be? Four months, three months? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: 4 months.]] Four, right? Anyway, it's about months after that nine-and-a-half-percent raise plus the parenting allowance, etc. Did the Ministry estimate how much this is going to take?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u154	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, we've got an estimate. This is about PLN 1 billion. And when it comes to... I don't want to enter into a dispute here anymore, but the raises you're talking about have actually happened, but in a long time. We are talking about a short time accumulation increase, about accumulation over time, you can say, not much more than a year. And about that... It's hard to argue with numbers, numbers. Indeed, at the time mentioned, there was an increase, but it was spread over many years. Let me remind you that it was related to the so-called. card hours. And for this increase I know, because I had the opportunity to work in the education commission and the local government, there were no funds. And then even local governments brought a draft bill to the subcommittee to oblige them to supplement the rules and recalculate the way... It was about changing the law on local government finances, because that was when there was a huge problem with financing those increases. So the argument about how much the budget gives... In fact, the state is government and government. There will always be a dispute about how much it is from the state budget and how much it is from the local government. Today these proportions for subsidised tasks are 30 to 70. Let me remind you that the increase in local government income is almost 20 billion. Therefore, we, considering that there is such an increase, huge but uneven, are proposing in the Teacher Card Act a provision which, however, will make the subsidy algorithm dependent on, let's say in general, the financial condition of local governments. And how he's gonna take that into account... Well, we have a discussion with local government corporations ahead of us. [[I'm just gonna make a point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u156	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u157	Well, the minister didn't want to go into polemics, but she did. Then I'm not going in either. Well, that's 40%. actually it wasn't in 1 year. I don't remember if it was two years or three years, but three years at the most... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: Four.]] Four? You're welcome. Well... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: I remember.]] If this was for 4 years, this resulted in an average annual increase of between 8 and 9% , and with an average wage increase at that time, which was a time of crisis, an increase in the order of 23%. Therefore, it was clear that there were graphs in this case. The teacher's situation is relatively improving. This is the graph I used to present. Teacher's fees were clearly above the national average, and now they are under the national average. The increases offered by the government will not improve, only make the situation worse, still because they are too low. So that's all I wanted to figure out, and the numbers don't lie here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u158	Would the Minister like to refer? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: No, thank you.]] The next question you ask is Senator Blackbay. [[Senator Czerwinski.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator Czerwinski was the first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions. One concerns leave for health reasons. He was also amended as part of a large cleaning bill. So we're going back to evaluating the teacher's work from the promotional path. Why wasn't it brought back to this? Was there no demand? The unions didn't want to change these new rules. Or didn't you just overlook it? Second question, more general. We are talking generally about teachers, about certain privileges under the Teacher's Charter. In some press reports, information has emerged that the resort is supposed to be considering the possibility of restoring the operation of the article. 88 cards. Well, maybe not the same article as the possibility of early retirement regardless of age, but because of the internship. Is that true? Is such work being carried out?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u160	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As far as leave is concerned, we are not making any changes at the moment. This was already before, as part of the previous amendment and implementation of the law on the financing of educational tasks and on the occasion of changes in other laws. We're just explaining how this vacation... who's giving a certificate or posting on this vacation, in quotes. If the senator wants to know the details of how to obtain and what has changed, we'll give them in writing. But we're not making any changes now. Well, I wouldn't want to go back to what I was talking about. It's a teacher's promotion case. I remember this, because I was still a delegate to the national section general assembly of "Solidarity" when there was a discussion about a new career promotion. Everyone with this promotion, which turned out to be very complicated, was hoping that it would also be called. promotion in the level of teachers. Well, it turns out it's started to be very bureaucratic, that it's really... Later, when I worked as a Lower Silesian education curator, I saw these wheelbarrows with documents that were transported in connection with the promotion, they were different types of certificates. It turned out that the rather fast path to getting promotions makes this glass ceiling and there is no further motivation. There was therefore an attempt to modernise the promotion. It has not met with positive acceptance by the teachers' community, and we cannot do so forcefully and against the background, so we have restored what is, but with the announcement that there is a discussion ahead of us about what should be a promotion, how should the teacher be promoted, and perhaps there would be a 1st degree promotion, i.e. appointment, then there would be specializations or other pro-quality allowances. But you do realize, ladies and gentlemen, that this is going to be a difficult discussion, because in every situation, someone is gaining, someone is losing, someone is going to feel... in a motivational situation... here, in the case of this path of promotion steps They're really replacing the internship. - Yeah, you could say that. - Mm-hmm. 'Cause actually how much work you do... Well, there's no way we're gonna get another degree of promotion without getting it. Surely the question to be discussed is also how much a young teacher should earn at the start so that he wants to tie the future to this profession. There was a start-up bonus here. This start-up allowance is, as I recall, 30 million zlotys in the budget. The accommodation allowance was 5 million in the annual budget and this development allowance entered the average. So when it comes to teacher pay pools, they're still there. So that this is an additional benefit to encourage young teachers. Of course, before we talk about what a promotion should look like. I don't think this is gonna be an easy conversation. [[Now you're asking...]] [[Sorry, that second question, about the possibility of going on vacation without...]] Oh, that's right. Well, there's no such thing today... Of course, there's a discussion. If it were to happen... But this is a discussion so far, she's not at the level of preparing anything at the Ministry of National Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u162	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u163	Mr Marshal, Minister, I am returning to the financial issue, the issue of remuneration, because it is one of the main elements of the dispute. There may also be disputes over other issues, and they can be spread over time, but remuneration is an element that determines the strength of peace. Minister, could you tell the Minister how much it's going to be... Because I'm not on the committee, which is why I'm sorry, but I don't know. How much will the teacher's basic salary be, according to the table?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u164	Then I'd have to have... It's obviously in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. I'd ask you to give me that justification, and I'll read it. I can say what I remember. Because I don't know everyone by heart... [[Okay.]] I can say that the average salary of the diplomat, the one with the highest stakes, will be PLN 6,000 100. And the individual... It's in the explanatory memorandum, of course. Here you are, my coworkers... I can, of course, read all these data from the table, but they're in the explanatory memorandum to the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u165	So, as I understand it, 6,000 100 zlotys is going to be a basic salary... [[No, it's average.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: Not basic. That'll be the average salary of a diplomat.]] Oh, with all the extras, the overtime... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: With all the additions, yes.]] Good. That's pretty much what I've got right now. And the second question, Minister, is about wages. Does the Minister have a number that illustrates the average salary in education in 2018 or 2019, after the raises? And one last question. Minister, as Minister and Teacher, you said that I wrote it down here. You have deep respect for the profession of teacher. Would you mind telling me what elements of this respect you're talking about? Is it just in a declarative sense or is it also... My respect is expressed by... as if I could hear such an argument... She's important to... [[But it has nothing to do with the bill.]] I'm asking a question about the Minister's statement, Senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u166	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! It's already up to you to assess how respectful I am. But my work for education as a teacher, deputy mayor, Lower Silesian vice-curator, member of the education committee, government committee, now secretary of state who is working on solutions, in good faith, in a discussion with... I also prepared... The reform of vocational and vocational training has been prepared under my supervision. So that, I think, many of my actions indicate that for education, for teachers I have Do we even have one in the ministry? A great deal of respect. But of course, everyone can have an opinion about it. I've got a salary table in front of me. Here is what basic salaries and average salaries will look like at the various degrees of promotion. So the intern's teacher, the one who starts working... The main remuneration is PLN 2782 and the average is PLN 3338. Contracting teacher: basic, PLN 2862, average, PLN 3705. Appointed: basic, i.e. without any additions - 3250 zł, average - 4806 zł. Diplomated: basic 3817 zł, medium, as I said 6141 zł. Of course, that's the average. There are teachers who earn more, there are teachers who earn less. There's something like an equalizing supplement that shows how much a teacher has to achieve. This is the result of the Teacher's Charter for a particular degree of promotion in its local self-government unit. These are, of course, complex salaries. It's rare which teacher, unfortunately, concerns the trainee's teacher. It only earns what the basic salary is. These additions, of course, are... At the moment, an allowance for parenting comes in. As I said, the vast majority of teachers had this low supplement, below 200 PLN, 170 PLN. And over 300 PLN received only 3% of teachers. [[Mr. Marshal, yet...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u168	Are there any further questions? [[Mr. Marshal...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u169	Because I also asked the Minister if he had such calculations, a number that shows the average pay in education. There's some data from previous years. Do you have the data for 2019 if you... Because you should sum up all these...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u170	I, of course... We'd have to sum it up... We don't calculate it, but if your senator is very interested, then of course we'll count it through the SIO and put it in writing... [[In writing, yes.]] ...how average it turns out. But she won't say anything, because it's really... If the average at the various levels of promotion speaks little to some, let alone the average of all levels of promotion throughout Poland. Well, it's gonna be a calculated... Of course we will, because it is our duty to answer the senators' questions, of course we will be happy to count it, but I think this information average will tell us little. The average wages in the national economy are now growing by analogy, but it is good that in Poland wages are growing very rapidly, at a rate at which they have not increased so far. As a result, budget workers are actually a little behind. But this is also the result of a long-term freeze of salaries, not only teachers, but also other employees, e.g. curatoria, voivodship offices, prosecutor's office... Well, it's really low wages, probably all of them... We care about teachers here, but I think that any minister who talks about his department would want these salaries to go up in a determined way.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u171	Anyone else want to ask a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Florek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My teaching internship was short, I used to teach professional subjects, and I also had contact with school, but that was a long time ago. But, of course, I particularly observed the protests of the teachers that took place. I think they started in January, as I recall. And, ladies and gentlemen, during these protests, you could see that the government was going a little bit against it, that it wanted the slightest raise, if anything, because it didn't anticipate it this year. In other words, they were only supposed to be from 1 January next year, and therefore, without seeing the possibilities, also the financial ones, he continued these talks. Yeah, but with the rescue, the education solidarity came, which, to be honest, blocked further opportunities for raises, because she agreed to those terms that were proposed and signed an agreement. Therefore, such a rapid legislative path has been applied so that these increases can be introduced as soon as possible. Of course, without proper opinions, especially local authorities, and this is mainly the case, such a path has been followed. And that's 9.6%. raises since September have been announced, at the moment we are proceeding, 300 zlotys for education, 1 thousand zloty of welfare allowance for start-up This supplement was also, but in a different form, now it's called a different For trainees and shortening the career promotion path, i.e. back to what was before September 2018. And the local government here is strongly protesting, mainly because there is a committee of government and local government and such important topics, especially regarding finance, this committee is to deal with. Unfortunately, this committee hasn't taken care of this case. Now when it comes to subsidies, about additives, e.g. The internship allowance is also... Of course, there is a law, and there is also a constitution that clearly speaks in the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 that changes in the tasks and competences of local government units follow with appropriate changes in the distribution of public revenue. And I think it's obvious that these changes should happen, they should be in the budget. But what do we have? Well, we have that there will be no budgetary changes, but there will be redeployments. The government didn't secure any funds either, because how could they know that there would be a raise like this, and they're afraid that the whole weight of the raises, as always, will fall on them. At the committee meeting there were examples of how it was in previous years, what the issue of subsidies looks like, as far as it is sufficient. So that local governments have concerns, and probably just fears, about these increases. As for the fact that teachers make too little money and that the raises should be substantial, we all agreed. Besides, Mr. Marshal Borowski made it clear that unfortunately, these increases, even compared to what was before, do not keep up with the average wage. The whole problem is how these increases will be realised. The Minister said that there would be a shift within the Education Department. You spoke today about PLN 1 billion, at the committee meeting there was about PLN 1.3 billion, you said there would be these shifts, that the Prime Minister promised. What do you mean, the Prime Minister promised? That's what the budget is for, the budget changes, the budget sets things up. If you give jobs, if you say there will be increases and a bill is made, then you have to secure the funds. And now they're... Now we know only that they are in the Education section and that there will be shifts. We'll see who's gonna take the money in this section and see if there's that much money there. After all, it is about PLN 1 billion. From what I remember, we've made these shifts before, and it was billions of them, so it certainly doesn't impress any of us. There was also talk of childhood. Self-governments raised such a case here, that especially small schools... I remember those little schools, the country schools, where there were a few students in the classroom. Education According to the Act, there will now be a minimum of PLN 300 everywhere. Self-governments say that so far they have paid differently for their upbringing, 50 PLN, 100 PLN, 200 PLN, as much as they had funds, it was somehow differentiated They raise that they would not do it... They will have to compensate everyone for this amount up to PLN 300, and of course to give more, and this is a minimum of PLN 300... Minimum 300 PLN. Okay. But where do we get the resources to continue raising these extras? It's gonna be hard. It must be said that these 300 zlotys will probably get everyone and it will be difficult to give teachers more. And one more thing, I mean. The principles of promotion of teachers. I'm not going to repeat these thoughts, but I'm going to say that we've been having a lot of discussion about this, too. Well, what did it turn out to be? We should listen to each other, review our statements from the time we passed the previous law, and what you are saying now, going back to what we said before. There is a great concern of local governments that the introduction of these increases will be at the expense of local governments, and given the changes that are expected, it should be considered that this concern is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u173	You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to say a few words not as a teacher or a person who worked at school. For almost 20 years I have been taking care of, among others. managing education and looking at education, and I still look at it, taking into account all the elements, but I looked at it to a large extent from the point of view of the parent, the grandfather of people who are very close to me and go to school, the Minister. And I think that in this discussion it is also worth listening to the voices of those who are not only teachers, but also know the school, know its problems with home and family messages. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd ask you to-- that's very disturbing. Now a few words about the bill. Minister, you said why the bill is parliamentary - you have to do it quickly, September close, October even closer, so you had to do it quickly. Why wait until January, right? After all, it was known that the school year starts in September, and the election is in October. What the hell happened? Did you find out now? You should've planned this before, done it. Therefore, you are planning as much as anything else, and then at the last moment, a draft of the parliament without the opinion of social and other factors that could express their opinion on it. And translation: listen, what, you don't want to give teachers a raise, we're all waiting in blocks to give them a raise, and you don't want to talk here. This, first of all. Secondly, what you picked up, Senator Florek. If we are talking, Minister, about the stability of the state, financial stability is also one of the foundations of local governments. And when you ask if there's money, 1 billion zlotys... we look, we move. Well, if there's a bill, you should say, yes, there's a record, one billion zloty... that's what you're gonna get... you're gonna pay 20% more. Or 10%. Because that's what it takes to be honest with your partners. I'm going back to a very important thing, Minister, namely, the educator's allowance in kindergartens. I personally believe that the education allowance in kindergarten should be the foundation of law in Poland. He has not been for many years - and I regret it. But since we are already making changes here, since you are proposing a good change, it is necessary to put things in order, to introduce what is lacking. You are making a good change by introducing the whole reform. You didn't bring it in right away, so now you're introducing a parenting allowance into the bill. Therefore, I believe that an allowance should also be included for pre-school educators. And I'm not gonna justify it because the Minister, as a teacher, as a teacher, as a minister, definitely supports it. I personally believe that the better teachers in younger classes and kindergarten, the easier it is for the student to learn later. It works in many cases, but it works in the scientific system - there are also such statements. It should therefore be a priority for the Minister and the Ministry as a whole to pay attention to pre-school education. Therefore, I will make an appropriate amendment so that this 300 PLN is also saved for educators in kindergartens. Why is it, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, so important that this is the case? Because if I'm listening to law and justice politicians today who say that governments want to break up a unitary state... Well, there are voices, maybe you're not following them. For the 21 requests that the local authorities have reported, the first statement is that the local authorities want to break up the unitary state... I suggest that those who preach this read the legal interpretation exactly, which is the unitary state. Because a unitary state is either a unitary centralized state or a unitary decentralised state. You're saying the unitary centralized state. That's okay, but treat everyone alike. If we are talking about 300 PLN as an upbringing and you want a unitary centralized state, then let's introduce it equally to everyone, as we believe that preschool education should also be. As far as the issue of the law is concerned, as I have already said, trade unions, as I read before today's meeting, have a lot of comments about the implementation of this law. It's just like last time. Remember? At 9:00 a.m. the bill came in, at 11:00 a.m. there was a committee meeting, until 3.51 a.m. we were sitting, the next day at 9:00 a.m. a quick vote, and at 12:00 a.m. the President signed − 656 pages of the bill. Now it's a little less, but the pace is similar. And what you often pick up, Senator Florek, will turn out in a moment. We talk, we talk, and you don't listen anyway, and then you come up with a similar proposal. Well, we've thought about it. I asked the Senator of the rapporteur why, when we said not to extend this path of promotion, this is a move in the wrong direction, you said no and here there were various arguments. Today the Minister said a very important thing, which was at the heart of this extension - that too much and too fast teachers were promoted, and therefore it had to be extended, because then there is a correspondingly smaller percentage of teachers who are going to be promoted. Now, speaking of general matters, I will say this: everything you do, and this law is also an example of this - how you introduce it, what arguments you use for changes in the law - is an example of chaos that you cannot master. And two more words about pay. Minister, I got this chart from Marshal Borowski in the previous debate. I'll give you an address where you can find it. It shows how much the teacher's salary was, that is, this line rising, compared to the national average in the national economy. And I'd like to tell you... The authors of this study calculated that in 2018 this is 97%. That's why I asked if what it was like... But I calculated so quickly that now that it's all in place since September, it's probably the end of the year that the average in all education with all the extras, all the overtime and all the stuff and all the stuff, and all the stuff, and all the other stuff. - to this national average. In other words, the State reached the 2016 level and not the 2012 level. So tell me the truth, Minister. And since you're not telling the truth, I understand you're missing information. We'll deliver it. What was the rate and percentage increase system of wages in 2008 and 2012 and how much was the average in total education compared to the average in Poland, and what is it now? And I'm waiting for the minister to tell me how much after the raises, and I'm gonna put on this chart and see how much it's gonna be on this average. You were talking about respect. Minister, I may argue wrongly, but I believe that one of the basic elements of expressing respect, especially for teachers, doctors and all other public service professions, is remuneration. And four years show you're waking up at the end of your term. And you wake up because there are choices and you just have to speed things up and say, well, not only do we give, but we still have a plan to get to that salary. I'll give you an example. 2 days ago, this information was published: Butan decided to set up 2 groups of highest earners from 2019 onwards, and I am talking about the budgetary sphere in this country. It will be health professionals and teachers, in general the environment of people working in education. This shows the perspective of the state. If you are talking about the fact that we give teachers and the profession of teacher respect, make it clear not only in a single bill, but in some perspective. And that's what's missing. And in the aftermath of such introduced laws, not discussing them in the long term, only doing them ad hoc, just on the basis of today, you have to do it in order to implement from September, because there is a certain electoral calendar... Trade unions are their own. As I asked the Senator of the rapporteur, I heard: 'No, we spoke in April.' From these conversations it turned out that an agreement was signed with the Solidarity Agreement and the others were still talking. This is what conversations and consultations look like. All of this, Minister, translates into a situation which today prevails in Polish education. And as a senator of the opposition, I should tear up my clothes here at all, and I say one thing: Minister, the idea of a round table is a good idea, maybe in another formula, but really in Poland today the rulers should sit down for a fair conversation with everyone. What should the education system in Poland look like? It is a pity that when we invited the rule of law monitoring team to the meeting in Poland and we had twice the subject of education, and were presented the positions of the world of science on what you are introducing... I know that respect for people with professorship titles is different in different situations, but it was worth listening to it to show that you are preparing us a nice pate when it comes to Polish education. And when you listen to it today, you read it, it's... [[Time's up, Senator.]] ...the situation in Polish education... As the marshal says, the time for good education is over! We really need to sit down to a reliable, good version and prospects of good Polish education with well-paid teachers, of course in a certain perspective, and to adopt certain standards that will improve what is happening at school today. I think that not only those who praise you are getting to the Minister, and I would like the Minister to listen first and foremost to those who have a lot of critical comments. They may not be considered, but it would be worth listening to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u175	Thank you, Senator. You have the voice of Senator Zientarski. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult for me, as chairman of the committee of the local government, not to speak on a matter which is essential to the local government. After all, it is on the shoulders of the self-government that the implementation of this law is mostly dropped. If you're talking about a round table, some extraordinary discussion forums, and you're ignoring it or not, I'd say you're ignoring those institutions that are called to do it every day. I'm thinking of a committee of common government and self-government... I ask why, in a normal way, not extraordinary, round table or dialogue committee, etc., but normally, as with the basic issues of important government and self-government issues, this issue has not stopped? And only the representatives of the government... The position of the Polish Towns Association was particularly outlined at the committee meeting. It was dramatic, ladies and gentlemen, because we had absolutely no specific answer to specific questions at the committee's meeting, from where the money, from which specifically, so to speak, the scope of this budget compartment... Nothing. There's just gonna be a... there's gonna be a shift, no way, from where... Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is completely ridiculous. Maybe we can find something. Maybe we can't. And then it's said that actually 300 zlotys for class teachers. This is the statutory minimum that is being introduced here, for details. But local governments will be able to... Because on the charge that actually local governments wanted to hail, so that it wasn't that we were using a vagina, it was just grabbing merit, because it's demotivating if everyone gets the same... What is the motivation to be a better teacher then? There's an argument: they can give you more. Yeah, but what's that? If such a pot is intended for these allowances of PLN 300. And I'm going back, ladies and gentlemen, to this problem that Senator Czarnobaj has just raised. I, too, have made such an amendment so that both class teachers in schools and kindergarten educators have this supplement. Because, ladies and gentlemen, educators in kindergartens also keep journals, and they also carry out their education. I won't quote, but I realized that I'm not the only one The position of the Polish Committee of the World Organisation for Pre-school Education OMEP, a nationwide association where the rank of this profession, the educational rank, the exercise of this direct care is mentioned, but also the outrage that this proposal deprives teachers of a kindergarten allowance for upbringing. They say nothing changes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's changing because I talked about it on the committee and I'll say it again. The law has a completely different power, a different basis, and the basic interpretation is linguistic interpretation. If classes aren't in kindergartens, then it's obvious that kindergarten teachers are excluded. We ask: why? Why are they off? In view of this dramatic position, as I said, the Association of Polish Cities is, please, so that as part of the election campaign Law and Justice invites you to the prom, only that a colleague will pay. Well, that's the situation, ladies and gentlemen. Because, I'm sorry, we don't know exactly what... Well, that's just ridiculous. And by saying that nothing changes, of course... And not wanting to support this amendment Although there were also votes on the part of the Law and Justice during the discussion to support this amendment, but later, after the proposal or before the proposal for adoption without amendments... Well, of course, it must be adopted quickly, and absolutely no amendments can be valid here, because the point is that the propaganda sound should already exist now. That's all it's all about. It's not that it's a bill that's properly prepared. I, of course, make this amendment. We believe that when it comes to the elements of the teacher's raise, yes. But when it comes to certain errors, which are discriminatory here, and above all when it comes to the transfer of this to local governments, counting the same as in this mess with the eighth classes, etc. "On the responsibility of local governments who manage... And the government says, so to speak, the boobs to the awards, saying, "We're doing fine." No, you guys aren't doing so well! You bring destruction, and you bring it to the simple self-government. But how much can these self-governments do? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u177	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Mammatov and Komarnicki have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the Senators Zientarski, Borowski and Czarnobaj. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u178	Thank you very much. The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the 80th Senate meeting to the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws will take place today immediately after the announcement of the break in room 176. The second communication: a joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Act of the Teacher Charter and some other laws will take place today 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u179	I declare adjournment until 4:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 58 to 16 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u180	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On your desktops you will find invitations to the jubilee meeting on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the first meeting of the reborn Senate of the Republic of Poland, which will take place on 4 July at 1 p.m. in room No. 217. I would remind you that the next eighty-second Senate meeting is scheduled for 10, 11 and 12 July 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point on the appeal of the Secretary of the Senate and that this item be considered as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the election of the President of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The draft resolution prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs is included in print no. 1213. I would also like to inform you that the proposal to elect Senator Mieczysław Augustyn as President of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has been welcomed by the Seniors' Convention. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs at today's meeting, after consulting the common opinion of the Seniors' Convention, recommends that the Senate adopt the following draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic on the election of the President of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. - I'm sorry. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, §2. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. I would now ask Senator Antoni Szymański to speak and present Senator Mieczysław Augustyn's candidacy as President of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! First of all, I would like to say that yesterday was the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Senator Jan Rulewski proposed a candidate for committee chair, Mr Mieczysław Augustyn. No other candidates were reported. During the committee meeting, all the senators present voted in favour of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn becoming chairman of the committee. My information about Senator Augustine will be brief because, I think, we all know Senator Augustine from many speeches about the widely understood social policy here in front of the Senate auditorium. Therefore, only a few information that may be relevant. In 1998 Senator Augustyn received a specialization in the organisation of social assistance at the Social Services Development Centre at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in Białobrzeg. He was the designer of the Social Assistance Home. John Paul II in Pila and its director in 1990-2005. He initiated the establishment of the Pilski Bank of Food and the Wielkopolska Bank of Food, he has been the President of the Management Board of the two associations since they were established. Between 1996 and 2005, he was part of the board of the Polish Federation of Food Banks. Between 1998 and 2005, he served as the chairman of the Councillor of the City of Piła and during 2002 and 2005. He was a member of the State Higher Vocational School Convention in Pile. He is co-founder of the Foundation for Humanitarian Aid in Pile, and from 1991 to 2005 he also served as President of its Management Board. He is the Vice President of the Association of the Volunteer Centre in Pile and the Pro-Senior Association established in 2001, which he was also a co-founder. In the 6th Senate, he was deputy chairman of the Committee on Family and Social Policy and the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. During the 7th term of office, he chaired the Committee on Family and Social Policy and was a member of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, and during the 8th term he was chairman of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and member of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn belongs to the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any calls, I can't hear them. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the election of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn as President of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Who among the ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: The apparatus doesn't work...]] Isn't it working? It's not working. Yet... Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 70 were in favour, 2 against, 6 abstained. [[Voting No 4]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the President of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. I would like to ask Mr Mieczysław Augustyn for an approach to the Presidency table at the moment. I'd like to give you a resolution. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Applause]] [[Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the appeal of the Secretary of the Senate. I inform you that the Marshal of the Senate has received a motion from Senator Mark Pęk, Marshal Mark Pęk, to resign from his duties as Secretary of the Senate. In view of the above, the Senate Marshal made a request in print No 1211 for the cancellation of the Senate Secretary. Would any of your senators like to speak? I can't see and I can't hear the calls. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the cancellation of Senator Mark Pęka from the function of Secretary of the Senate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 75 against, 2 against. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appeal of the Senate Secretary. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending the excise duty Act and certain other laws, the Energy Efficiency Act and the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 1203 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 57 were in favour, no one opposed, 21 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Act amending the Law on excise duties and certain other laws, the Energy Efficiency Act and the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 1196 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committee meeting took into account the amendments tabled by the committees and were dismissed other amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u186	Thank you very much. Now I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I recommend that the amendments tabled by the rapporteur of the majority be adopted, Senator Silence. These are very important amendments. E.g. one of them, which was so widely justified both in plenary and in committee meetings, opposes the introduction of a 100-percent penalty for the imprecise fee to be paid. This was invented, and it is not known why, that if the attorney pays an imprecise court fee, which the court does not appoint. He, the proxy, did not precisely calculate it without calling for an addition, would receive a penalty which would consequently increase the costs of the proceedings. These costs will be charged to the defendant, in accordance with the rules of the trial, completely without justification. Another very important amendment I reserve that I will not discuss all of them about the exclusion in economic proceedings of the possibility of filing a mutual suit. The aim of this amendment It was therefore justified to speed up the procedure. The speed of proceedings involves concentration of evidence. At a time when a request is justified in economic proceedings and we have evidence that when the parties have arrived in court, there are plenipotentiaries, there is a court, etc... There's a possibility that the defendant owes me. Yes? Otherwise, I'd have to do a separate thing. Instead of one, there's two things to do. Does this process speed up? I don't think it's an extension. This amendment eliminates the exclusion of the possibility of filing a counterclaim. These are the two most important issues which are reflected in these amendments. Others are of smaller caliber, but also important, which is why I ask for the support of these amendments, which were formulated by various legal environments, also by Senator Cichoń, who claimed that one of these changes even violates the principles, human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. Do Senator Zbigniew Cichoń or the other Senator rapporteur want to speak yet? Senator Jan Rulewski may still speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, some dispositions, which are a proverbial spoon in a barrel of honey, have been included in this law, which makes great progress in relation to the current state of affairs. I am afraid that the effectiveness of this law will be significantly reduced, that the law may even be ineffective. I am particularly concerned with those provisions that bring back the legal solution that we, as Senate in 2008, have eliminated from the legal order. That is the fact that if a professional representative, i.e. a lawyer or a lawyer, does not pay the appropriate court fee, the legal remedy which he has lodged, i.e. an appeal or a complaint, is rejected. So you shut down a man's access to a courthouse, an opportunity for a second instance to investigate his case. We rightly eliminated this in 2008. I remember the words of the outrage of Senator Romaszewski, who listened to my presentation with a certain element of disbelief at the time. I do not hide that at the time I was the initiator of the deletion of this unfortunate record. We've done this effectively. The Sejm accepted this, assuming that nothing had to do with the substantive settlement of the case, whether the fee had been paid correctly or with any shortcomings. Well, now, unfortunately, we're back to that, no matter what the Senate did earlier. So that even in the name of a simple respect for our own House, for the Senate, which made such a decision in 2008, we should adopt such a law, That's what I think. It doesn't allow it to go back to that state of affairs that makes the whole processing a little absurd. Although a small adjustment is envisaged here, it is foreseen that if a court fee is paid twice after the appeal has been rejected, the court will recognise the case. But where did the double come from? And the question is, is the justice system supposed to replace the actions of the tax authorities and raise money? For what? I think it's necessary. And I appeal to you to accept this amendment, which I have tabled here. I would like to add that the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg considers such restrictions to be unacceptable in the Poitrimol case against France to be a breach of the Article. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights, i.e. the right to settle his case by an independent court. That is why I am so stubbornly appealing to you to accept Amendment 3, which concerns the deletion of point 38 in Article. 1. As a result, Tall... Not Your Honour, but Your Honour... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[High Senate.]] ...please take into account other additional amendments that also concern access to court. Namely, one wishes to introduce a court fee of PLN 100 on the application for the drawing up and delivery of the justification of the judgment for the party. I would remind you that it is only from that moment on when the delivery takes place that the 14-day deadline for the appeal is counted. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is also in line with what I said earlier: if this fee is not paid, then it will not be possible to appeal. I'm asking why we're going away from those rules that have been in force for decades. And I'm already doing my job, thank God, 40 years. It used to be that the court calculated the amount of the fee due and called for the payment of the fee, and there were no problems, and now supposedly speed up the proceedings is that the proxy is to calculate it itself. It'll probably make it faster. Well, how many days is it gonna be faster? I think it's a little bit like making proposals that have nothing to do with reality. That's not good enough. I would like to add, ladies and gentlemen, that what is different is the requirement of a professional attorney to know the law, the procedures of proceedings, and what else is an incidental, additional issue related to judicial fees. Well, what does one have to do with the other? There are countries, for example France, where there are no court fees at all. When I talk to my fellow French lawyers and I say that we have to pay a certain amount of money to investigate the case, they ask me: how do you not pay taxes? I say, well, we pay. Then they: why do you still charge for the functioning of the justice system? Yeah, but that's the reality. It is therefore necessary to apply the right measure to everything, and it is not possible from something that is secondary, additional to the procedure of the procedure, i.e. the issue of fees, to make a matter of principle and language in importance, which will determine whether the person who goes to court will have a case recognized by the other instance or not. Yet, this really leads to unfair decisions and a great sense of harm. I also propose, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment to the article which provides for a specific revolution in the service of court papers. So far, the defendant's address has been indicated, the court has sent a lawsuit to the defendant. It will now be right, because the rule is that this lawsuit is sent requesting the defendant to respond to the lawsuit. And that's how it all worked. And at the moment a provision is made that if such a consignment is not received twice, the reason is that it is obliged by means of the bailiff to carry out this service, while the bailiff is to charge 60 PLN plus some more lump sum for the use of the car. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm worried that this is gonna block the court's operation. Because on the basis of the individual cases that we sometimes hear that the package wasn't picked up by the defendant's side, there was a default sentence, and then there was a problem with reversing the situation... Well, you cannot, on a case-by-case basis, create a legal standard that departs from the general rule, from a rule that operated for decades that sent a consignment with a sue to the defendant's party, and the defendant's duty was to collect the consignment. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if we introduce this regulation, which is proposed, I can already imagine that people will systematically refuse to receive these packages in order to avoid being brought before a court and to involve the opponent in such a complicated procedure of hiring even a bailiff for such service. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] Similarly, the other amendments, in particular one in economic matters, aim to restore the general principle that mutual action can be brought in the case of these economic cases. It is not known why it is said that, in the interests of speeding up the procedure, the general principle that mutual action can be brought is excluded in economic proceedings. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is where you're most asked to make such a counterclaim acceptable. Because, as a rule, in economic matters, counterparties have a lot of contracts between them, and it is often the case that they are both debtors and creditors. And what's the point of refusing to bring an action against a man who's been sued, giving him $100,000, in a situation where he claims that the man who sued him owes him $150,000? After all, he's been asking you to settle this case one time... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your conversations quiet.]] ...not force him, the defendant, to bring a second case, this time about the 150 thousand PLN. Well, these are the things I think it's necessary to do. [[Applause]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, is in my opinion beyond any ideological dispute. I simply make these comments from the point of view of practice. And I think we should do everything we can to ensure that this code, which introduces a lot of decent things to speed things up, for some justice, for example, that the jurisdiction of the court is changing in such a way that weaker parties, for example. people who make some loans or other commitments to some huge companies do not have to go to Warsaw to sue, because they usually have their headquarters there, only they can bring actions at their place of residence... These are very positive solutions that need to be applauded, but, as I say, let's not put this spoon in that honey barrel that's supposed to be this new procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u190	Thank you, Senator. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voices from the room: The apparatus is not working.]] [[I'm sorry, for what? For rejecting?]] We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted in favour, 21 senators voted in favour, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 seeks to properly convey the intention of the legislator by clarifying that the obligation to reimburse the costs of the process may be imposed on a party that behaves unfairly. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, 2 against, no one abstained, 75 against... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll say it again. 77 senators voted, 75 against, 2 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 2 aims to ensure consistency of the rules on the appointment of time limits for persons residing outside the European Union. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 3 removes the provision which provides for stricter rigors for professional agents, including the obligation to pay an additional fee in the event of incorrect payment of the appeal and its rejection for this reason. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 41 were in favour of the amendment, 28 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was accepted. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Amendments 4, 6, 22 and 23 should be voted on together. Amendments 4, 6, 22 and 23 aim to maintain the existing rules for the service of lawsuits and thus remove the rules governing the service of bailiffs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, 33 were in favour, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] Amendments were not accepted. Amendments 5 and 24 should be voted on together. Amendments 5 and 24 aim to eliminate the solution that professional plenipotentiaries are obliged to provide themselves directly with pleadings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 49 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] Amendments were not accepted. Amendment 6 was voted in conjunction with Amendments 4, 22 and 23. Amendment 7 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, all supported this amendment. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 corrects too wide a reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 9 complements the normative gap resulting from too narrow a reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 15]] Amendments 10 and 20 should be voted on together. These amendments shall maintain the free of charge nature of the request for service of the reasoned decision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, 31 were in favour, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 11 seeks to eliminate the error of referring to 2 provisions governing the composition in which the Supreme Court considers the complaint. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 74 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 12 takes into account the principles of legislative technique determining how the provisions containing calculations are to be formulated. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, all in favour of this amendment. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 13 removes the provision, which is a repetition of the regulation contained in the earlier editorial body, and Amendment 25 covers the consequences of this correction. Amendments 13 and 25 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, all in favour of amendments 13 and 25. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 14 eliminates the grounds for rejecting the action for finding that a final decision is unlawful by the Supreme Court, since that condition is already the basis for rejecting the action by a lower court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, all in favour of Amendment 14. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 15 seeks to preserve the possibility of bringing an action of mutual interest in economic matters. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 78 senators voted, 38 senators voted in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 21]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 16 aims to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Constitution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 17 corrects the error in the designation of the reference provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 18 deletes the repetition which is included in the same provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 19 eliminates from the scope of reference a provision which does not specify the types of claims but merely procedural issues. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 20 has already been voted on, including Amendment 10. Amendment 21 seeks to give the catalogue of provisions for the reference of the correct scope, adapted to the institution for the reimbursement of claims which the witness is entitled to. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted in favour of this amendment. [[Voting No 26]] Amendments 22 and 23 have already been voted on, including Amendments 4 and 6. Amendment 24 has already been voted on, including Amendment 5. Amendment 25 has already been voted on, including Amendment 13. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the bill in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. [[Is it all there right now?]] [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] Listen to what I'm saying, it'll be clear. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, 56 were in favour of the bill with amendments, 9 against, 13 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Environmental Protection and the Act on Crisis Management. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1206 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 63 were in favour, 12 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law and the Act on Crisis Management. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The Environment Committee has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act. It's a senate print no. 1198 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted together. Amendments 1 and 2 correlate the terminology of the Act with the Act on the provision of services by electronic means. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 29]] Amendments 3 and 4 should be voted together. Amendments 3 and 4 eliminate the shortcut from the provisions and then specify precisely the extent of the data to be provided by the obliged entities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 5 amends the rule eliminating a non-normative part of it. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 Senators voted, 77 were in favour, no one opposed, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 6 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 7 removes unnecessary transitional regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 77 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 8 aims to ensure that reports drawn up through an individual account in the database on products and packaging and on waste management do not require signature, enter into force on 1 January 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, all in favour of the amendment. [[Voting No 34]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 were in favour of the resolution, no one was against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, 76 were in favour, no one was against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: a law on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from those organisms. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft law in which it calls for this law to be adopted without amendment. It's a 1,200 A senate print. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 74 were in favour, no one was against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law on the labelling of products produced without the use of genetically modified organisms as free from these organisms. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sport Committee and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 1204 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Margaret Kopiczko, to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The proposals submitted by Senators Zientarski, Mr Borowski and Mr Czarnobaj were not passed at the joint committee meeting in support of the proposal to adopt the law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u192	Thank you. Would any of your senators like to speak again? No one's checking in. We therefore proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, 61 were in favour, 8 against, 8 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 80th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statement submitted to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[Senator Libicki.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: It's already in place.]] Senator Libicki. There you go. Senator Libicki will speak first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My senator statement is addressed to the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, Mr. Zbigniew Ziebrara. The case is highly complicated, difficult, I think it's pretty hopeless, but I'm taking this intervention as the last resort in the situation of the gentleman who came to me. Well, Mr. M.D. came to me. living in the municipality of Duszniki, in the district of Szamotulski, in the Wielkopolska Voivodeship. This gentleman is a pretty helpless person, and he presented me with various documents that would indicate that he was quite easy to dispose of his assets. That's how I'd put it. His lawyer who represented him. It was quite long and complicated to proceed with a request to the prosecutor's office to initiate an investigation into this provision that talks about bringing someone into an unfavourable regulation with their assets. The D.A. in Shamotula refused to initiate such proceedings. This attorney is the D.A.'s order. He sued the District Court in Szamotuly. It was in 2010 and 12 August 2010 that the court in Shamotula decided to uphold the decision of the prosecution in this case. The case is so difficult that, as I said, Mr. M.D. He's a pretty helpless person in his life. It is unable to fully describe the circumstances of this case, it has very stingy documents, difficult to read. In fact, the only document he made available to me is a very illegible copy of this order of the District Court in Szamotuly dated 12 August 2010. Here is also the signature of Act II Kp 210/10. I would like to convey this to the Minister, even once again, that, for my view, this is an absolutely hopeless situation. But maybe the Minister, with the right tools, will find a solution to this complicated, difficult case for Mr. M.D. Help. Thank you very much, and this vague copy of the resolution I allow myself to pass on to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u194	Thank you, Senator. Senator Klein will speak in order to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Interior and Administration. Mr. Marshal, people, entrepreneurs, residents of Łeba have been coming to my office for a long time, who are paying attention to the safety problem during the summer season. I've been doing this for years. I often spoke to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration asking how police work is organised in tourist cities such as Łeba, Ustka, Władysławowo, Darłowo or others. These are small cities in the out-of-season, where there are small police stations or police stations, but during the summer they become big cities Up to 100,000 people stay at the peak of the season in Leba once. Today, at the end of June, there are about 20,000 tourists in Leba. And to my question, how is it in such cities, big ones at that time, organized police work, I actually get an evasive answer every time, saying that there are additional police officers, that there are listeners coming from the police school, etc., etc., etc. But in practice, it's like this. I'm talking about the Bend again. If we knock, we'll come to the police station after 3:00 p.m., we'll find it's closed. It is similar on Saturdays and Sundays. The greatest threats are in the afternoons, evenings, nights, especially during weekends, and at that time in such places as Łeba these police officers are very few or not at all. People who report to me They are entrepreneurs, locals say there are people who have been permanently disturbing silence for many years, running discos, running big and very loud events, ignoring other entrepreneurs working in the neighborhood, running guesthouses, hotels, etc. Police intervention in these matters The idea is that someone should try to silence this extraordinary and illegal noise always ends in nothing. Lately, even a policeman accepting a police report from the district police station said This conversation is recorded that it is completely helpless that there are no police officers that cannot intervene in this matter. A few days ago, in Łeb in connection with the issue of safety during the summer season, a meeting was held with representatives of the District Police Command in Lębork, the Regional Police Command in Gdansk, representatives of the Police Station in Łeb. On the question of how they intend to fight permanent noise for the residents, a burden for guests, a burden for entrepreneurs, they spread their hands because they are helpless. He is also listened to by those interested, those who make noise. Seeing such statements, they simply say that our country is not dealing with the most elementary security issues. So far, I have not taken the floor on this matter, but the situation is serious enough that I ask the Minister to really take care of this matter to oblige the Chief of Police and, through him, the Provincial Commandant to resolve this problem. The police can't be embarrassing to you, to all of us. Wherever there is a need and where it is appropriate to intervene, the police should be in place and serve the citizens in accordance with their role and function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u196	Thank you, Senator. You will speak to Senator Silence in order to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a statement to the Minister of Agriculture on the flood risk in the Boche district. I would like to ask for a more decisive and effective implementation of the flood protection project in the Oder and Vistula basin. It's about sub-component 3. C-Fair and active protection in Raby's water catchment area, contract No 3C. Raba's programme. Dry tanks and other hydrotechnical facilities. That's the name of the project. Sorry about the long quote. I was approached by the chiefs of the Boche district and the mayors in the area, as well as by the convention of the elders asking for help, because there is a danger of flooding in the Boche district. They are concerned that the planned investments in flood protection are not being implemented and that, as they write here, funds from the loan were secured several years ago, among others. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-26-senat-81-1.u198	Thank you, Senator. Now I'm asking Senator Secretary to read the messages. There's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eighty-first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The first sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 16 minutes 54]]
