ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Agatha Borowiec, Arkadiusz Myrcha, Arkadiusz Marchewka and Waldemar Buda to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members of Arkadiusz Myrch and Arkadiusz Marchewka will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Arkadiusz Myrch. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u2	Good morning. I would like to inform you that today there will be meetings of the following Commission: - Public Finance together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Infrastructure - hour 10, - Health-- hour. 10, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs, together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, at 3 p.m. 13, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 13, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Health - h.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - to the Energy and Treasury together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 16, - Infrastructure - hour 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Foreign Affairs - hour 17. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Team of Friends of Oder - hour 10, - Parliamentary Team - break up with plastic - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Construction of the express road S74 - hour 11, - The Members' Team for the New Constitution - at 5 p.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Spa - hour 12, - The Krkonoše-Jizera Parliamentary Team - at 3 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Road Transport - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Team - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Motorcyclists and Quads - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 5:15 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Volunteer Workers - h.m. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u3	Thank you very much, sir. The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft law on ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of members of the European Parliament in direct universal elections, annexed to Council Decision 96/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976, printing No 3239. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, - about the Medical Research Agency, - the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector, - about amending the Construction Law Act. Those reports shall, respectively, be in prints 3241, 3221, 3215 and 3209. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities (prints Nos 3119 and 3216). I would very much like to ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u4	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Committee on Economic Affairs and Development at its meeting on 19 February During her first reading, she considered a government draft law on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities from print No 3119. The project aims to implement European Union law. Amendments were tabled during the first reading. One Polish County Union - did not receive the support of the commission and government, one amendment of the Polish Chamber of Telecommunications - it also received no support from the committee and the government party, 28 amendments from the Legislative Bureau, mostly editorial - received most of the approval of the government party and committee, and three amendments from the Law and Justice Club - also received approval from the committees and government party. Thus, the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies recommends and presents to the High House an amended draft of Print Law No 3216 for further procession. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u5	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Witold Czarnecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present to the High House the position of my club in relation to the proposed law on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities, Seym printing Nos 3119 and 3216. The draft law adopted by the Commission on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technology implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and is part of the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States. The draft law is also part of the government's "Availability+' programme, whose main objective is to improve the quality of life and ensure the independence of citizens who, due to age, health status or disability encounters various kinds of difficulties in everyday life. The most important thing in the proposed law is that it ensures digital accessibility of public entities' websites and non-governmental organisations aimed at promoting people with disabilities, older people, as well as health assistance and protection. Persons with disabilities should be particularly concerned by the State, including the interest in accessing digital goods. Increasingly, the activity of the state and its institutions is moving to the digital world, and in this ongoing digital transformation, people with disabilities and older people must not be ignored. The draft law therefore counters social exclusion, which makes it a perfect part of the Europe 2020 strategy. The Act indicates the need to ensure the availability of a page, for example, in the form of such functionalities that a person who cannot use a computer mouse will be able to use the keyboard to move from one side to the other, from the bookmark to the bookmark, increase or decrease the font or increase contrast. This is a small technical challenge and how much needed in practice. But it's not just purely technical requirements that prove digital availability. The Act requires that the content itself be presented in an understandable manner. How many times, ladies and gentlemen, we have keyed the websites in search of information, going from bookmark to bookmark, from link to link, entering more and more looped appeals, and often, feeling deceived, we have left the site with nothing. Thus, the Act gives everyone the right to simple access to the pages and their contents. Of course, this is already happening, also in the administration, but it is necessary to step up work in this direction and this is what this law is doing. However, it should be stressed that the draft law at the same time offsets the need to ensure digital accessibility and the need for a proportionate burden on public entities and non-governmental organisations mentioned by me. The provisions of the Act indicate that where the availability of a digital website or material contained therein would be disproportionate to the expenditure, this availability may be provided in an alternative manner. Sometimes it is enough to read to someone interested in its content over the phone, and sometimes it is enough to send it a file in a friendly format, e.g. to the e-mail address. In the case of deaf people it is possible to provide contact by means of a sign language translator via electronic communication. The Act does not restrict the catalogue of alternative forms of access. It is important that an elderly or disabled person can get acquainted with the content. High Seym! To conclude and sum up my speech, I would like to say that my parliamentary club supports the bill submitted, which has been delivered to ladies and gentlemen in Seym Papers Nos 3119 and 3216. At the same time, I am placing on your hands two amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u7	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u8	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities, prints no. 3119 and 3216. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law is the implementation of the requirements of the European Union. The aim is to implement into the Polish legal order Directive 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. The Internet is a common good. Today, we are also facing challenges in the fight against digital exclusion. Especially in this case, this applies to people with disabilities and dysfunctions. According to official data, there are about 5 million people living in Poland, which represents more than 12% population. Ladies and gentlemen! According to regulations adopted by 2020 at the latest, government and local government websites are expected to reach full availability. This principle of accessibility should be understood as principles and techniques that should be applied when designing, creating, maintaining and updating websites and mobile applications so that they are more accessible to users. The regulation introduces rules of action for administrations. First of all, the most important is the information provided by the published document and not the document itself, so in the case of unavailable files the citizen will be entitled to call or send an email and ask for them to be read. The information that has legal implications must be absolutely accessible, i.e. that information should be adapted in the first place. The principle of feedback is also introduced: the first rule of access to all information published by the Office, e.g. a body publishing content on social media that does not guarantee technical accessibility will have to publish a copy of this information on its website. Ladies and gentlemen! The first step for the office in fulfilling its accessibility obligation is to create a declaration of accessibility of a website that will guide the disabled to move on the office website. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will support the regulations introduced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u9	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u10	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Tuesday's debate on this law lasted almost four hours, and in principle it ended because Mr Czarnecki applied for an immediate move to the next point, otherwise it would probably still take time. On the surface, it seems that this bill does not raise any doubts. We all want the availability of websites to be as high as possible, especially for those who are not fully operational. However, when it comes to the details of the implementation of this law and the question of how the government theoretically approached only the direct transposition of the European Union directive, it turns out that it is excessive in many places. Firstly, the catalogue of entities raises doubts. This was pointed out by the Polish County Association, as well as by the representative of the MBP present at the meeting. We explained that MBP are subject to this law and for them it is easier, but for example. for small associations whose representatives were present at this committee meeting, it is no longer easy. The Ministry estimates that the cost of adapting the parties to this law will be between 1 000. $30,000. zł. For a small association that can afford to rent a room and cover the basic costs, this is a big problem. As a result of the discussion we came to, it is difficult to say, agreements, but to recognise the possibility to use templates proposed free of charge by the Ministry, which templates will be available to associations. Not exactly the representatives of the associations convinced that. They raised the question of the cost of living then these parties. And I'll be honest with you, I understand these associations. They are set up for certain purposes, they have limited resources - often it is really hard work and great involvement of these people - and I fear that this law, firstly, we impose additional requirements on them for the creation and maintenance of this party, and secondly, as has also been raised at the committee's meeting, it is very concerned that, as a result of failing to comply or not to fully comply with the requirements of this regulation, they will be punished, which is very significant for them, from 5 000. PLN up to 10,000. zł. So that there is no full satisfaction, Minister, that we have handled this matter completely. The second important issue that has been dealt with is the issue of schools, kindergartens and daycares, which, if the district side ensures availability in the required form, will no longer have to do it themselves. And the third thing is an additional obligation to make a declaration of availability. The Directive clearly and clearly presents a catalogue of requirements and adds another one to it by the Ministry. In the opinion of the section discussing this at the committee meeting, it is unnecessary, it introduces additional bureaucracy unnecessarily. But in this case, we've come to an agreement. So that it is really crucial for us to have this issue of small associations and organisations that work and which will have problems with the implementation of this directive. And I'm still counting on the ministry to find a way to deal with these problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u11	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u12	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Directive aims to achieve the objective of increasing the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies based on common accessibility requirements. As a result, citizens will benefit from greater access to services and information provided by public sector bodies through the possibility of ensuring more complete and more effective accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications. It should be stressed here that the proposed changes in accordance with the spirit and letter of the implementing directive are also intended, which is very important, to equalise the opportunities of people with disabilities in the use of public entities' websites and applications. The area covered by the proposed legislation is currently subject to legal regulations in Poland, partly at the statutory level - says the Act of 17 February 2005 on the informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks, and partly at the level of implementing acts, i.e. regulations. However, as the studies show, only 50% public entities comply with the requirements of the above-mentioned regulations. There is therefore no doubt about the need to introduce national laws which implement the above-mentioned Directive. However, attention should be paid to the need to modify certain provisions of the proposed bill, and in particular the scope of the regulated entities - says the article. 2 (4) - so as not to create an additional catalogue of entities that goes beyond the requirements laid down in the Directive. This aspect, in my opinion, rightly draws the attention of the Polish Districts Association in the opinion sent to the chairman of the committee. It also seems too overzealous not to take advantage of the possibility offered by the directive to exempt schools from these obligations, for which under Polish conditions the costs of implementing these provisions are quite high. I am convinced that it is better to increase the funding of teachers' salaries than to impose more costly responsibilities on schools. Although the Minister explained that it would be possible for the municipalities to take over these tasks from schools, I did not find specific records on this subject. I hope it's gonna be in some kind of amendment. The proposal also introduces an obligation to draw up a declaration of availability, which goes beyond the mandatory framework of the Directive and, in practice, the extended scope of information contained in the declaration will unfortunately result in its illegibility. In this respect, the European Commission, within the framework of its powers, adopted an implementing decision of 11 October 2018, establishing a model accessibility statement in accordance with the Directive. As I said, we will, of course, support this project. He is very necessary, very important, but we would also like you to consider supporting these amendments, which were, in fact, tabled by the opposition clubs at the committee meeting, but were rejected by a majority. I hope that the compromise amendments tabled by Mr Masłowski will meet with your approval. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u13	Thank you very much, sir. And, please, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing the 3119 project on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities. My previous speakers have already said a lot about the doubts we had both as an opposition and as a social side. That's my opinion. I ask you, in accordance with the principle: European law plus zero Polish legislators, when implementing EU legislation, should reflect the European Union's intention without introducing unnecessary, unjustified, excessive regulation. In this case, I believe that you, as a ministry, have taken advantage of the opportunity and have introduced, in addition to the regulations required by the European Union, additional ones for some of your own, unknown goals. a declaration of availability. In my opinion, when it comes to schools, kindergartens, associations, it's a burden for them that shouldn't be. Moreover, some of these regulations are unsystematic. I think you wanted to add a few recipes again, and you did it too fast, because in my opinion, for example. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Point 7 (2) is missing three words: by means of electronic communication. Although we reported this during the committee's deliberations, it was unfortunately rejected. On the other hand, I believe that - as my previous speakers said - this is too much a burden for schools, for associations that will have to include these declarations of availability. And now that we were discussing this at the committee meeting, the Minister assured that the Ministry would prepare a free template which schools, kindergartens or associations we are talking about here will be able to place on their website and thus comply with this requirement. Only that this is such a guarantee, but, as Mr Cieślinski said before, there is nothing in the bill about it. It reminds me of the moment when we introduced the GDPR law. I remember asking Minister Zagórski to assure entrepreneurs that they would not be punished if they did not meet these requirements in the first months of the GDPR. The Minister then said: Relax, Mr President, entrepreneurs can count on the discretion of the office. That's my favorite word. And it seems to me that now we can also rely on the discretion of the office or the discretion of the ministry. Since there are no such entries in the bill, if for some reason this template does not appear on the website on time, then - I guess and I count on your discretion - you will not punish all these institutions with penalties from 5 to 10 thousand. On the other hand, there is no record of this in the law. That's also what we reported... At the committee meeting together, as an opposition, we tabled amendments which, as has already been mentioned, were rejected by the governing party. However, we do not give up and once again make amendments to the Article. 2 (2) 4 in order to exclude those associations which act in the interests of their members and not in the general interest, as it is in the provision of the Act: for the general good. We are counting on you to accept these amendments. Rather, we will vote in favour because, of course, we must comply with these EU standards. It's clever, the state has added a few laws, and we're under the wall. But against... On the other hand, I hope at least that if you support these amendments, you can count on our favor. If you don't, I think it's gonna be hard to talk about some common accord. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u15	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I fully share the voices of my previous speakers from the opposition, who spoke about the extension of this law, both as regards the scope of implementation of the directive - here is the issue of the declaration of conformity - and the question of the number of entities covered by this regulation. I am afraid that these provisions will join the group, to the pool of rules not used or dead primarily because of the costs, because this act is brought in without awareness of the full costs of the obliged entities. Here's a specific question. It is mentioned that a public body may not comply with the regulation of the act in the event of excessive costs if it does not carry out tasks for the benefit of the elderly, the disabled. What do you mean by excessive costs? Tell me what it's gonna be like. [[♪ The bell ♪]] how will this be determined? Who will know what it is to him is excessive cost, etc.? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u17	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to see action to enhance the accessibility of websites. I would like to ask whether these activities will be accompanied by the promotion of educational parties, not just containing administrative information. Does the Act contain requirements to ensure access to information for visually impaired and blind deaf people? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u19	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have such a basic question. Is this bill supposed to do more damage, or is it supposed to work for good? Well, Minister, I've been running an association for 15 years. It's a small association whose budget is within 6,000. per year. There is an information page for members of the association. Now the association also provides free legal assistance under grants. And now I'm like, "How is this going to go on?" Because I know what it's gonna look like. Do you want to teach us to avoid the law? Because I'm gonna tell you what it's gonna look like. Well, I'll write this page in my personal name and avoid it. Is that why you make the law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u22	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the over-dimension of these regulations, which stem from European law, has become a standard. And I must say that I regret to say once again that unfortunately, those European Union rules that are supposed to make life easier, Poland, adopting them into its legal order, are so complicated that later people wonder why we need these European Union rules, since they complicate our lives. However, these provisions of the European Union are maximum, I would say, poor as regards the need for regulation, and most of these regulations are due to the bureaucratic needs of our officials, and that is, of course, wrong. And I think that's the case with this bill. But I'd like to ask for such specific support. I remember there was this program run by the Ministry of Digitization, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which allowed one of the foundations to prepare templates. Is the Ministry planning such a programme to ensure that the institutions carry out the obligations under this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u23	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer this question, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Mrs. Wanda Buk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u24	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, First of all, I would like to thank you for the very smooth process on the bill at the first reading at the committee meeting on Monday. Thank you very much for the factual and substantive, long, exhaustive discussion that has brought much and explained a lot. This project had to be discussed for a long time, because it is an important and good project. As we have said, as has already been said here, this is a project, which is the first draft law under the "Availability+" programme. As of today, there is a regulation on the National Interoperability Frameworks, a regulation on WCAG, but only less than 50% of public entities' websites apply to these regulations. That's why this bill is so important. For those of us who are lucky not to live and not function with disabilities, it is more difficult to imagine the life of those who on a daily basis in a different reality because of their limitations must function. And here I find it very difficult to agree with what the Members have said above all, that is, that the bill is, however, oversized. Ladies and gentlemen, we must take into account the limitations and disabilities of those who function in our society. As it has been said here today, these people are quite a few, and we must meet them. And that's why there's this bill. The data was dropping today. And it is so important that today, however, we take into account their limitations. Now I'm gonna answer the questions one at a time. Mr Wilczyński also raised the issue of over-dimension of the law. He said that this bill was prepared without cost awareness. He also asked what excessive costs were. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have actually done these analyses, we have said how much it will cost to adapt the parties. Of course, it all depends on how extensive the website is. On the other hand, the Ministry of Digitalization will provide all those who run such websites, not only templates, but also e-learning training and webinars, thanks to which website editors will learn what to do. These are not primarily IT activities, they are largely editorial activities, which will allow people with disabilities to move on these sites and have access to all information. There have been many words about declarations that are supposed to be excessive. Mr Masłowski also spoke about this. You said that we have come up with some additional obstacles, restrictions that we impose on the operators of these sites. This is not true, because the directive, yes, has a narrower catalogue, while the implementing decision that has been issued for this directive already provides for a much broader one. And in fact in this executive decision we have mandatory requirements and optional requirements and we in the draft law, after a long consultation with the social side, after a long consultation with persons with disabilities, have decided that we will actually include this information as mandatory in the declaration of availability. But is it really information that is so burdensome to enter? Please pay attention to the content of the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 (6). The following additional information is provided: information on the availability of the public entity's architectural premises for disabled persons and information on the accessibility of the sign language translator via electronic communication. Are these really so far-reaching, additional requirements that result in re-formation? No, these are just two additional information, whose inclusion in this declaration costs little to the person who prepares the declaration, while for people with disabilities they are really crucial. You have also raised the issue here, the subject matter of the subject matter of the law and small associations, which may have negative consequences of having to adapt their parties. The question was asked, also by Mr Wilczyński, what are excessive costs. Excessive costs are those costs which, if incurred, would significantly impede the functioning of the organisation concerned. However, please also pay attention to the very content of the bill that says that if you... Mr Jachnik gave here an example of his association. Please pay attention to Art. 3 (1) (a) Point 2, paragraph 8, which states that the Act does not apply to the content not used to carry out the current tasks of a public entity and not updated or submitted after 23 September 2019 to reconstructions. Moreover, in the bill we made a fairly long deadline for adapting these pages, because it is 2023. There were also positions on Article. 7 and alternative possibilities to provide access to digital content. Please note that in the article. In paragraph 7, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: The 2 directory we created is an open directory. In particular, there will certainly be other opportunities that will allow public entities to provide access to these content, which we have not been able to predict today. Once again, I assure you that, as amendments have been tabled, we will have an opportunity to discuss the scope of the subject matter law. We are declaring openness to the discussion here. I hope that we will be able to clarify a lot more, clarify our common positions, and we will work out a compromise, because this, as I said, is an important act. We must bear in mind those who function in a more difficult reality on a daily basis than we here in the Chamber, as I am looking at today, to a large extent have come to function. Thank you again and I would like your support for the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation 2016/679 (Prints 3050 and 3197). I would very much like to ask Edward Siarka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Joint Committees, I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation 2016/679, print No 3050. At its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Sejm sent the draft to the Joint Committee. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights have examined the bill and requested its adoption. In the course of its work on this draft law, the Commission amended the title of the Act to: Act amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). During the work on this draft law, during the work of the subcommittee as well as the joint committees, a number of substantive amendments and several dozen legislative and editorial amendments were made to the draft law. Since the law regulates the use and processing of personal data in many areas of our lives, numerous organisations and institutions have submitted their comments to this project. The most difficult issues faced by committee members were data profiling issues with the protection of sensitive data at the same time. I hope, as rapporteur, that we have managed to ensure effective protection for our citizens of their personal data. I request that the report submitted and the entire bill be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u27	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Marta Kubiak, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u28	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 presents to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation 2016/679, print No 3050. Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, hereinafter referred to as the GDPR, shall apply from 25 May 2018. It aims to establish a legal order which in turn aims to ensure the effective application of GDPR rules. To this end, many other laws also needed to be amended. In view of their number, it was decided to do so in the draft law on the introduction of the Personal Data Protection Act. It is up to each Member State of the European Union to ensure its effective application in its legal order by adopting the relevant internal rules. The main objective of the bill is to adapt the Polish legal order to GDPR, mainly by deleting provisions that are contrary to GDPR or which duplicate GDPR solutions. The draft law examines the need to regulate the catalogue of data at the statutory level, where the processing of personal data has been addressed, for example. the keeping of public registers. It has also been established whether the task laid down in the law generally applicable in a precise and unambiguous manner can be derived from the need for the processing of specific personal data. Where the task cannot be interpreted as meaning what personal data are processed during its execution, it appears necessary to supplement the substantive provision. The project also includes solutions that respond to a large number of actions aimed at using the personal data protection reform to mislead data controllers. It shall act against possible cases where information containing false information on the legal need for action has been sent to them. The proposal therefore proposes to amend the Penal Code by judging that the threat of unlawful prosecution is not only a threat to criminal proceedings, but also another procedure in which an administrative penalty may be imposed. One of the most important amendments introduced by the GDPR law refers to the Code of Administrative Procedure. It is an information obligation which the public administration will be able to implement in the first letter replying to the request. The draft provides that the office, after receiving the letter and preparing the reply, should send it together with a letter informing about the processing and protection of personal data, together with deadlines and other important information, for example. a judicial instruction on the time limits for the lodging of appeals. Such ones, among others. the arrangements provide for a draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure the application of Regulation 2016/679, known as GDPR. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of a bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u29	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There isn't. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u30	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Joint Commissions: Administration and Home Affairs and Justice and Human Rights leaned on the report on the government draft law adapting the Polish legal order to the GDPR, among others. by deleting provisions which are contrary to the GDPR or which GDPR duplicate. Already at the outset, it is necessary to emphasize the fact that the procedated law of the Polish Parliament amends the existing wording of 167 laws in the relevant parts. Hence, government submission can undoubtedly be called as necessary and difficult at the same time. At this point, it is appropriate to stress the fact that the amendment of individual laws will entail the imposition of rights and obligations on the authorities of the State, as well as to a large extent affecting individuals. In view of the number and nature of the amendments necessary for the introduction into the Polish legal order to comply with Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016, it was decided to make them in a single legal act. The draft law also introduces provisions which constitute restrictions on GDPR and which have been introduced in accordance with Article. 23. They were introduced only to the extent necessary for the proper performance of tasks by the data controllers. As a few examples of a general nature, it is necessary to specify at the statutory level, and in a precise, closed catalogue of processed data, which already arises from constitutional standards. The legislator shall indicate situations in which a separate data directory should not be created as it results from the task itself. Where the task cannot be interpreted as meaning what personal data are processed during its execution, it is necessary to supplement the material provision in order to ensure that the processing of precisely defined data can be carried out; as an example, I give the requirements to be met by the applicant. With regard to the processing of personal data in administrative proceedings, it was considered excessive and not intended to create such regulations in sectoral legislation which empower the investigating authority to process personal data already in the course of this procedure. The proposed amendments to the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure are intended to implement the Article. 86 GDPR, as well as regulating the disclosure of personal data in accordance with Union law. In this case, too, the powers of the complainants in relation to the processing of their personal data have been specified. A separate provision regulates the activities of special services for which the special provisions will not apply. In particular, the functioning of the petition law has been examined and it has been specified that the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure will apply to the area not regulated by that law. The legislator guaranteed the right of access to an independent and impartial court established by law, which in relation to the judiciary of the Republic of Poland means directly access of the citizen to the court. The Enforcement Act in the administration provides for obligations for certain persons to keep data confidential. The processing of personal data in the State Fire Department will concern candidates for service and present and former firefighters, which has been subjected to the GDPR regime, indicating that the controllers of the data of these persons will be all the managers of the organizational units of the State Firefight. As the last one, I would like to expose the High House to the amendments to the Pension Supply Act for Professional Soldiers and their Families. The amendment of the Military Supply Law consists in supplementing the catalogue of bodies and institutions obliged to assist and provide information to military pension authorities in matters of defined benefits. This is particularly important in the absence of contact with the recipient or in the event of life confirmation or the date of death in the event of return of correspondence. This seems to make the work of military authorities much easier and to prevent unauthorised persons from receiving benefits. High Seym! [[♪ The bell ♪]] A deep and factual analysis of such complex matter seems necessary and necessary, so the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats does not see the need to deny it and will vote in favour of the report of the Joint Committee on Printing No 3197. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u31	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure the application of Regulation 2016/679. High Izbo! The Personal Data Protection Regulation has been in force since May 2018. Therefore, in Poland there is a procedure for implementing the provisions ensuring the application of this Regulation. A law has been implemented which provides for broad regulation, while this draft law contains detailed sectoral arrangements for about 170 laws. This is therefore an extremely broad solution and it is difficult to fully discuss this draft law in the form of a club position. However, I would like to say that these are absolutely essential solutions. Protection of privacy, which is guaranteed in Article. 47 of the Constitution requires these regulations to be adopted in a special way, in such a way as to ensure that they are of the highest quality and effectiveness. I must say that during the committee's deliberations and also the subcommittees, all the Members who were involved also took this very seriously. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for some kind of openness to the arguments of both our opposition and the social parties, which have led this law to be much better in the end than in the original version presented to Parliament. One of these things, which is important and worth highlighting, is the right of the citizen to receive information on the reasons for the decision taken by the bank, for example. grants a loan. This is so important that citizens have often faced such a situation that they have received a credit decision, for example. without a detailed explanation, which meant that they were in fact unable to address this effectively. Of course, one can wonder what this is important in the context of personal data, but it matters. It has for the effective implementation of precisely these rights defined by the constitution and by specific laws. This is important and these solutions are needed as much as possible. There are doubts, of course, because during the committee meeting it was also raised whether insurance undertakings would be able to reasonably estimate risks as a result of the adoption of the provisions of this law. To be honest, I'm not entirely satisfied with what was taken during committee meetings. I would expect the Ministry to continue working with the social side, but risk assessment has a direct impact on insurance premiums paid by persons who conclude contracts. Therefore, proper estimation, use of information, personal data in this estimation is necessary. I also want to raise the question of the processing of personal data by institutions that are not financial institutions. At the committee meeting, we also raised the issue of institutions that make assets available under an operating lease agreement. There are still doubts as to whether these institutions can use personal data from the Anti-Fraud Platform, and I must say that these doubts remain. Of course, it is a question of defining the right to use these personal data properly, but I also encourage the ministries to lean significantly on this problem, because it is about the financial security of citizens, also about the financial security of organisations such as companies that do so, working in this area. Finally: a separate issue is the issue of implementation. Well, we really have a lot to do. There's no time to talk about it anymore. [[♪ The bell ♪]] but in general in Poland these rules are implemented in a way that is significantly beyond common sense. I call on the government to take decisive action to correct the situation with regard to the implementation of personal data protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u33	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Please ask Mr Mark Wójcik, the PO-KO question. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you a question about a case that one of the voters pointed out to me when he came to see me on call. Well, the situation is something like this. The phone company, as a result of a mistake, found that the client owed her a debt. After many months, this matter was settled. It turned out that the telecommunications company had made a mistake, but it had already sold the debt to the debt collection company. This recovery company sold another company and as a result the citizen who knew that he had not done so after the entry into force of the GDPR law, because this is the case, hoped that his personal data would also be protected. That's why he addressed various institutions, among others. The D.A.'s office, for help in this situation. The prosecutor in the official letters refusing to initiate proceedings draws attention - the justification is very simple - and indicates that the recovery company processes his personal data, because he does not know that the debt does not exist, because he does not know anything about the company's mistake [[♪ The bell ♪]] Telecommunications. Are you planning any action to counter such practices?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u35	Thank you, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you something else. What will be the estimated additional burden for micro and small businesses due to the obligation to provide statistical data? Is such parameters defined e.g. by analogy to the data on filling in the GUS forms? On this basis, it is possible to estimate the time needed to organise the new planned obligation and therefore determine the estimated costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u37	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, Mr Karol Okoński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So yes: First of all, I wanted to express my sincere thanks to all of you for your cooperation at committee and subcommittee meetings. It was a hard work, but it seems to me that it is in the spirit of wanting to get to the best sound of the rules, and I think that we are all happy with these effects. And now, ladies and gentlemen, there were few questions in each group's speeches, and I am actually only referring to the two issues raised. In fact, the issue of the lessor was discussed at the committee meeting. And as at the committee meeting, I have to maintain what we said earlier, which means that the catalogue of these companies is open. We are not in a position to identify precisely which entities would be affected by the proposed regulation, and therefore we cannot give them exactly the same powers as other institutions offering financial services. Hence this approach, not another approach, consulted with the Ministry of Finance, of course. As regards the implementation of the rules, it is true that in many cases the reality or interpretation of the rules probably exceeded everyone's expectations, hence our way of dealing with this, the way in which we help in implementing the GDPR is a number of guides published by the Ministry of Finance, which are the result of the work of working groups for particular sectors of public administration, the health sector, the education sector or the financial market. These guides have been accepted positively and are some kind of guidance on the implementation of the law. Of course, the Office for Personal Data Protection does its work here, which also publishes recommendations and guidance on implementation. The Act has been in force for less than a year now. I hope - and I think we are seeing - that this level of rationalism in terms of the application of the law is increasing and that the provisions of the law currently under review, which also clarify certain issues, will also contribute to the fact that we will no longer observe the absurdities that actually took place at the implementation stage. With regard to Mr Wójcik's question about this particular case, an example, which is not related to the law, but, on this occasion, quoted, on the basis of a brief description of the situation that you have presented, it seems that the citizen has the most right to object and demand the deletion of his data. If this request is ineffective, in my opinion it qualifies as the basis for a complaint to the Personal Data Protection Office. So that I think that's your advice to the patentor. [[It wasn't effective. He tried.]] We will not avoid a situation where certain companies do not actually apply these rules or apply them improperly. Then, first of all, the investigation of its rights remains, and if they are not respected, the complaint. With regard to statistical data here, such practice was adopted, also applied in other laws, that we assume that the period required to maintain a certain continuity of research is 100 years, and so it is also established in other laws concerning it, so it has been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u39	I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Edward Siarka, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Thank you very much. In one sentence, I wanted to sum up the discussion that we are having today from the Parliament's stand about this project. Well, this is a very difficult matter that deals with many aspects of our lives. With this one document, the bill actually changes in almost 150 legal acts. It is a wide matter that concerns us in many places and in many areas of our lives. I must say that there was a great deal of interest here in NGOs who participated in the work of both the subcommittee and the committee. I wanted to thank all those who sent us comments very warmly. As far as possible, we tried to use all the materials you sent us. I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry's team for their long-term work on this project, the Legislative Office, which has shown great activity here in terms of work on this project, and all your Members, the clubs, who have ultimately been unanimous on the adoption of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a 10-minute recess... Excuse me, we'll finish this point first. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 08 h 10 min 17]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act (Prints Nos 3120 and 3214). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I submit a report to the Committee on Infrastructure in print No 3214 on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act, print No 3120. High Izbo! The Infrastructure Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 19 February 2019, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft. Two amendments were tabled during the meeting, one was accepted and one was not accepted. On behalf of the committee, I would like to inform you that we support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u43	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u44	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! I don't see the Minister. High Izbo! [[He's at a committee meeting.]] It's a collision, Mrs. Marshal, but it would be good if another deputy came. [[He's trying.]] In the law on amending the Road Transport Act, we implement European regulations which concern the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Carriers. These provisions, which we implement in the Polish legal system, concern the introduction of reciprocal access to similar electronic registers of road operators in other Member States of the European Union. What is the significance of these provisions? They increase safety on European roads, because, as the main inspector for road transport, our national, will gain access to electronic registers of our neighbours from the European Union, other Member States, so similarly its counterparts in the Member States will also be able to check whether the carrier has a valid licence, whether the vehicles that carry out road transport have been allowed to move. These rules increase road safety and security. There's no doubt about it. The bill has been consulted. There's one thing that deserves attention. An obligation shall be imposed on the elderly and the main road transport inspector to report to the register of undertakings authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator, information on registration numbers and the country of registration of vehicles authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator declared on the list of vehicles. The Starosts are also involved in this system. Entrepreneurs at the committee meeting asked to extend the deadline for vacathio legis. It is worth noting that the government implements these regulations, it integrates into the Polish legal system practically after 3 years. These provisions in the European Union were adopted in 2016. They waited three years. Entrepreneurs ask for 3 months more on the vacathio legis. We therefore propose an amendment for the Act to enter into force six months after the date of the announcement. But it is also worth noting that work is currently underway in the European Union on important decisions from the point of view of the whole transport industry. Mr Ertug's report was adopted, which could cause the well-developed road transport industry in Poland to encounter barriers, barriers that concern cabotage. We talked about this in the Infrastructure Committee on another occasion. It is worth that, while working on this bill, the Minister, who is not here today, can tell us what he looks like... [[He's at a committee meeting.]] But we work in Parliament, in the Ministry... [[But in Parliament, at the committee meeting. This committee is in parliament.]] ... There are many Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, he is alone. We would like to hear at what stage [[♪ The bell ♪]] there are works aimed at reducing cabotage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u45	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Puda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u46	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Road Transport Act. The proposed amendment to the Road Transport Act of 6 September 2001 results from Poland's need to comply with the obligations imposed by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) laying down common rules for the interconnection of national electronic registers of road transport operators. This project aims to ensure the availability of relevant data in the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs, known as KREPTD, kept by the Chief Road Transport Inspector, for all competent authorities of other Member States. The proposed law amends the provisions on the possibility of transmitting the specific data referred to in the Annexes to the revised Regulation of the European Union to the system. The draft law also provides for provisions aimed at clarifying the current rules relating to the keeping of the national electronic register and ensuring its proper functioning. The provisions of the proposed law will apply only to events occurring after the entry into force of that act, therefore data on registration numbers and countries of registration of vehicles authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator, notified by the trader after obtaining such authorisation in the list will be transmitted to the national register by the obliged undertaking in this case to that undertaking and will report those data after the date of entry into force of the proposed law to any economic operator. Similar data on the status and type of Community licence or the number of vehicles notified to the licence will be transmitted to the register of operators authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator for whom inability to manage transport operations has been established and will be collected when the decision to establish the manager's inability to manage transport operations becomes final after the date of entry into force of the Act in question. Information on registration numbers and vehicle registration countries will be transmitted to the register of the information system operating in the Central Road Transport Inspector when the main inspector issues an authorisation to pursue the occupation of road transport operator. If the Starost is authorised, the data shall be transmitted to the national register by that Starost. Taking into account some of the amendments that I have presented, both the nature of the law itself adapting the law to the regulations of the European Union and the content of the rules, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the effects of the law and supports this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u47	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the gallery a group of local self-governments from Nasielska and residents of Nasielska who host the Sejm at the invitation of Mrs Anita Czerwinska. [[Applause]] Now, please take the floor of Mr Paweł Szramka, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u48	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I also greet our guests at the gallery. As for the bill, I don't think there's much controversy here. My previous speakers have already presented practically all the matter that is contained in this project. I agree with the amendment made by Minister Grabarczyk. That's what the social side was talking about at the committee meeting. I think that this extension of the deadline by 3 months will somehow not make it much more difficult for us to introduce these new rules and may make it easier for our entrepreneurs to carry out this process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u49	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u50	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats will support this government project. We consider it appropriate, necessary, necessary. It will lead to the harmonisation of the system and the inclusion in the system of our information concerning carriers registered in our national registers, as well as entities from the countries of the European Union. This is a normal, good action that will certainly contribute to improving the state and safety. At the same time, I would like to express my support for the proposed amendment to extend the transitional period to 6 months. We say that we are listening to the voices of our sovereign, our voters, and so the actors involved and the representatives of the carriers were at the committee meeting and expressed their will and request. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u51	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Road Transport Act - after presentation of the report of the committee. High Izbo! The project concerns ensuring that relevant data are made available in the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs to the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union. This register kept by the Chief Road Transport Inspector is kept as similar registers are kept in other countries and, of course, on a reciprocal basis, the data included in our register will be available to the authorities of other countries as well as the records kept by the authorities of other countries will be available to our body. This is all in the interest of the transport industry, of course, in the interest of road users. Such a register, which also contains information on how road transport is carried out, of course contributes to improving both economic issues, competitiveness in this difficult market and safety issues, which I think is in the interest of all of us. That is why we have also worked with particular attention on this bill. High Izbo! During the committee meeting, as mentioned by my honourable speakers, the social party proposed that the date of entry into force of this draft law should be 6 months after its adoption. We agreed to this conclusion. As Minister Cezary Grabarczyk presented the amendment, we presented this amendment together during the committee meeting, and I, on behalf of my club, also present this amendment to your marshals. Please. I have to say... I address the President of the Rozonca. The point is that the majority lean on these amendments and accept them. The transport industry, Mr President, should be our eyeball. This should be the industry we support in particular. After all, we all agree, and Mr President has also said many times that this is the industry that has realized the Polish dream of wrestling Europe's markets. At the moment, businesses carry out almost 30% of transport. We know that in the European Parliament, other countries are looking at this with concern and are taking measures that are going to make it even harder for our entrepreneurs. I think that, in order to meet the expectations of the transport industry, we need to adopt this amendment and extend the deadline for entry into force of the rule, because this will help our entrepreneurs. Today, at this difficult time when our representatives of the transport industry are fighting on this increasingly difficult European market, they must be supported. Even if the fact that these regulations can come three months later than originally planned is only a small bow towards them, it is worth doing so. I call on the majority to give a positive opinion on this amendment, to accept it and to give our transport entrepreneurs an even better chance to deliver. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u53	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u54	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have that doubt, and I would ask you to explain it. Is the scope of data that will actually be transmitted by the relevant authorities of the Member States of the European Union to the ERRU system different? If so, does the proposed law provide for a greater or more cost-effective scope compared to other EU countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u55	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u56	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Taking advantage of the fact that Minister Wild appeared in the Chamber, I would like to reiterate that we are talking about the transport industry. This is an industry about which Mr Suchoń rightly said that she had realized the Polish dream of power. We have really conquered the European market. But now, in connection with the work on the new directives, the Ertug project has been adopted, which significantly limits the possibility of cabotage in European countries. We talked about this recently at the committee meeting and I would like to get an answer to the question: What the Polish government, what did the government of Law and Justice do to prevent these harmful rules from coming into force? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u57	Thank you. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Nicholas Wild. [[Can I have another one?]] Excuse me, one last question will be asked by Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u58	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to refer not so much to the bill as to our work. Mr President, I will address you. Mr Grabarczyk rightly pointed out that there was no Minister at the beginning of the debate. You said you were at the committee meeting. Let me point out that we should also be at this committee. That is why, for my part, it is such a request that, in the future, we should try to put together enough of these timetables so that we can participate in committee meetings, because there is equally important information being discussed there. Then we could bake two birds with one stone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u59	Now I ask Mr. Nicholas Wild, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I would like to say that it is true that the transport industry is our eyeball. That is why we are taking these well-known actions, which aim to move away from adverse decisions put forward by certain groups within the European Union for the Republic of Poland and Polish entrepreneurs. On the other hand, going back to the law that we are dealing with today - the basic issue that was raised in speeches is the matter of vacathio legis, the time of entry into force of these provisions. There were two arguments raised here. The first argument was whether entrepreneurs would be able to prepare for the new regulation at that time. As I understand it, the second argument was whether local governments could handle it. Starting with something easier and more obvious, I would like to inform you that the project has received a positive opinion from the joint government and local government committee. For the interests of the self-government, the three-month deadline is acceptable. Let me briefly address the issue of deadlines in the context of business interests. Already during the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, the Social Party changed its position and partially withdrew its expectation of extending it from 3 to 6 months. Why was it initially expected to extend time? Because the social side, i.e. our entrepreneurs, imagined the legal effects of this law on their business in such a way that the law imposes certain updating obligations on them. They're afraid they won't be able to make it in three months. During the committee meeting we explained in a way, I think, quite unambiguously, that the law does not impose updating obligations on entrepreneurs. Of course, it imposes certain obligations on the public, while obligations concerning the increased scope of reported data relate to new entries. Now, back to the beginning, I'd like to say that transport businessmen are our eyeballs. Their interests are in no way affected by the 3-month vacathio legis. Let us defend the interests of Polish entrepreneurs, but let us defend them where they really need this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And what are these well-known actions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u61	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development on the Parliamentary draft law on the Research Network Łukasiewicz (prints 3114 and 3227). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I present a report on the parliamentary draft law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. The draft is contained in print No 3114 and the report of the joint committees is published in print No 3227. The project entered the Sejm on 10 December 2018. The Sejm at its 76th meeting on 17 January 2018. pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for its consideration. The main objective of this project is to increase the level of research carried out and thus facilitate cooperation between science and industry, as well as to profile the activities of institutes in terms of applied research and implementation, which is intended to stimulate economic development. The direct objective is to create from the ground up, through institutional transformations, an efficient, extensive organisation for conducting and commercialising applied and industrial research and implementing the economic policy of the government. During the examination of the draft law, 18 substantive amendments and 8 amendments were adopted, which do not change the substance of the draft, because they are legislative and editorial in nature. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on the Economy ask for the report and recommend the adoption of a draft law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u63	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Iwona Michalek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland's development needs, in particular those related to the need to increase the level of innovation of the economy, require the creation of an effective research facility, which will work on the most necessary economy and society's technologies. Members have taken the initiative of a systemic solution to meet the need for a strong research organisation, the Łukasiewicz Research Network, which will focus key technology institutes with recognised national and international potential. The primary objective of this organization will be to conduct research of key importance for the development of the Polish economy and science, which will translate into innovative solutions commercialised by industry. The network will set up 38 research institutes supervised by ministers of the economy, energy and digitalisation, which will operate in sectors with high innovative potential. The added value of the creation of the Łukasiewicz Research Network will be the effective coordination of actions undertaken so far at the level of individual institutes. The network will group 8,000. researchers and technical staff, who will often have unique competences on the scale of the industry. The Act creates a mechanism for combining these competences in the process of training staff for a modern economy through the possibility of extensive cooperation with other actors in the science sector in Poland, e.g. Colleges. It should be stressed that such activities are directly in line with the constitution for science already in force since October, where the aspect of good professional training of graduates for economic purposes is identified as one of the main missions of the higher education sector. The creation of the Łukasiewicz Research Network according to the proposed submission will also break one of the biggest problems of the Polish science sector, i.e. its fragmentation. Research activities will be monitored and evaluated by the network centre on an ongoing basis, which will allow for ongoing response to emerging potentials of new technological solutions, on the other hand, it will allow for rapid abandonment of projects that are not successful. This will not only contribute to a more rational management of public funding for science, but will also enable quick decisions to support new ideas that emerge much faster in innovative solutions than a normal administrative system is able to respond. To sum up, the proposed Law on the Research Network Łukasiewicz, in my opinion, in the assessment of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is a golden measure combining administrative capacity to minimise market risk in the development of innovative solutions with the effectiveness of large economic organisations, which are most successful in a globalised economy. Dear Marshal! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I make six more amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u65	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Vladimir Nykiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There isn't. In that case, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15. There isn't any either. Mr Krystian Jarubas, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u66	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the parliamentary draft law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz, print No. 3114. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! And the government could also be addressed using the term Dear Kings of Chaos! Chaos, because we've got another project ahead of us based on it. It is a draft law establishing the merger of dozens of scientific institutions into a network coordinated by Centrum Łukasiewicz. The parliamentary initiative, ladies and gentlemen, replaced the government project at the end of the year, which was withdrawn from parliamentary work in November and the Ministry of Science had already had to explain it extensively. It was supposed to be a good change - what is it? Another project, which is mostly in line with the proposal adopted by the Government at the end of 2017. The network is expected to implement projects in priority areas from the point of view of country policy from the outset and commercialise their results. However, this does not mean that everyone likes it. Among the critics there was among others. Main Council of Science and Higher Education. It has doubts as to whether the provisions of the Act will guarantee the implementation of the Łukasiewicz Research Network mission and ensure its effective functioning and management. The Council notes that the project does not clearly define the way in which the President of the Centre Łukasiewicz would indicate institutes for cooperation during the implementation of tasks. The Council also challenges the provision concerning the full responsibility of the Director of the Institute included in the network for the implementation of the annual business plan and the financial plan. It also critically addresses the issue of approval of these plans by the President of the Centre of Łukasiewicz, who is also competent to amend these documents. There is an inconsistency here, because the law also states that institutes retain legal personality. There's more inaccuracies. Centrum Łukasiewicz will be a unit of the public finance sector, and network institutes are not. The Act does not specify the posts on which the staff of the Centre and the Network Institutes will be employed. This is not the end of doubt. They are also held by the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland. These also concern the lack of discussion and the need to present a full analysis of the impact of the regulation. The Rectors rightly noted that it is not clear why 38 research institutes should be included in the network. The associations are also concerned about organisational issues. The task of Centrum Łukasiewicz is among others. commercialisation of research and development results. However, each of the network institutes has identical tasks. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a solution poses a risk of natural competition between the various institutes in the network and the centre in terms of who is to organise and finance commercialisation and who is to benefit from it and under what conditions. In addition, Centrum Łukasiewicz will be able to settle such disputes in his favour. Doubts, as you can see, a lot, and a little time to realize. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats negatively evaluates the proposed project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u67	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Vladimir Nykiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law on the Łukasiewicz Research Network. It should be remembered that on 5 January 2018 a government draft law on the Research Network was introduced into the Sejm: Łukasiewicz. This project was later withdrawn. On 10 December 2018, the Parliamentary draft law on the Research Network Łukasiewicz entered the Sejm. The project has the same structure and most solutions as the government project. In fact, it's the same justification. The question is, who really is the author, what has practical consequences, because the question is who should be asked questions. During the committee meeting, a member of our club asked a question to the Member representing the applicants. This one found the question inappropriate, and then the minister answered it. So the practical meaning is that you don't really know who to ask with a question. The word "network" would indicate that it is a type of organization with such a networked shape, but the standardization of the project indicates a clearly hierarchical arrangement. An official factor dominates the research network, which is to be a highly centralised organism. The President shall be appointed by the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science. No contest mode is required. The requirements to be met by the President are not excessive. In fact, the minister can cancel the president whenever he likes. Due to the shortcomings that are more numerous than I have presented here, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition has tabled amendments. There's a number of them. We propose among others. to delete the purpose of the network, which is to shape public awareness of advanced technologies. Let them do the research on this network. In addition, we propose that the President should be selected by means of a competition, have a degree of doctor-habilitated and have more professional experience in the public sector and in managerial positions than is foreseen in the current view of the project. We propose to increase the number of representatives of the scientific community at the College of Advisors. We propose that there be representatives of science on the board. We propose that the Director of the Institute should also be selected by means of a competition and have more experience in managing staff teams. We propose that he speak English, because as long as the President of the Centre of Łukasiewicz should know him, nothing like that is said here. We propose that the staff of the network institutes be up to 50% the composition of the Board. We also propose that the approval by the President of the Statutes of the Network Institutes should no longer be accompanied by the approval of the Rules of Procedure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u69	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz, print No. 3114. Proposed by the Ministry of Higher Education and Science - because that is indeed the case, and the parliamentary project It is only the elimination of certain procedural obligations and the acceleration of work on legislation, which has long been in the corners and ministries, and the Sejm - the solution for setting up a group of selected research institutes is a bad solution. Of course, we should agree with the initial thesis that many scientific institutes operating in Poland carry out activities far from research and implementation of their results, but this is not a reason to treat this condition with centralist and sometimes voluntaristic solutions. First of all, it should be pointed out that the act centrally entered into the network of Łukasiewicz institutes which did not agree to this. I know at least one such institute, which is significant in science in Poland, which nobody asked about this matter. Another issue is the obvious contradiction of the tasks and role of the Centre of Łukasiewicz with the idea of the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. The Act imposes large reporting and bureaucratic obligations on the Centre, which will be costly - bureaucracy will eat even more of the budget allocated to research - and will duplicate already over-developed administrative and financial reporting, which research institutes implement for many actors: ministries, central units and control units. The competence of the Centre and its President are far too wide. In a competitive economy, the Act proposes drastic centralisation of power and decision-making, e.g. with regard to the appointment of directors of institutes and as regards merger, division or liquidation of institutes subordinate to the President and the Centre. Defining the tasks and areas of the Institutes' activities, it was quite drastically reduced the ability of the Institutes to conduct business activities. Institutes have infrastructure and competence often not present in the Polish economy due to its quite large innovation delays compared to technologically developed countries. This potential must be exploited. This bill doesn't provide for that. Because not only is seymphoric arithmetic clear, but above all the method of making is known to all, we know how the process over this law will end. It will undoubtedly be accepted. However, in order to save what we can, we propose as a Kukiz club15 amendments to the contested law. They concern at least three issues: criteria for the appointment of the Deputy Director of the Research Institute, rules for the evaluation of the scientific activities of the Research Network Institutes, maintenance of the powers to award degrees on the same principles as in research institutes, as specified in the Law on Higher Education and Science. At the same time, I also inform you that the amendments you have proposed to Prof. Nykiela is supported by us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I'm making corrections to your marshal's hands. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u71	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the parliamentary draft law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz, print no. 3114. I will no longer abuse Members who have signed this project because all the criticisms have already been raised by my previous speakers. I wonder why this project was abandoned so that it would continue to be a government project. I don't think that, by consulting a new project, controversy will trigger the disappearance of a colon. I think that's what everyone would agree to. This shows that it is not the first time that Law and Justice are causing confusion. For the record, I agree with the Professor, with the Member, who is the author of this. It fits into such a trend of Law and Justice, so as to centralize the state as in the times of the Polish People's Republic, when everything was decided by the Central Committee. And this is another example of how you want to have power over everything, and the minister wants power over how research institutes will work. The question is whether, in fact, these 38 institutes that are supposed to go online are the ones that should be there. What about the ones that aren't online? Of course, you can assure them that they can continue to work together and be such support for the entire network, but there are concerns that these institutes will fall because they will not be able to count on support. These concerns are perfectly justified. The fact that you are resigning from the competitions for positions that are important not only for science but also for the economy, and in general for the functioning of the state, we are used to it. Here is a confirmation that it will be the minister who will point to the president of the network and that it will also go down, there will be further appointment of directors, there will be no competitions, there will be nothing, because why, you have to fill your people with everything you can. I don't know how many more free stools are left in this country, but I don't think there's much left to fill with law and justice. We therefore believe that this is indeed not a good solution. If, during the work of the committee, and I am convinced that this will be the case, all the amendments, even the most reasonable ones, tabled by the opposition clubs, are rejected, surely the Modern will not support this project. We will see at the committee meeting, who is the author of this project, whether there will be a discussion of the amendments with the Members who signed or with the Minister who will answer the questions, because we really have huge doubts about what it will look like. So that, given both the negative opinions of representatives of opposition clubs, as well as the negative opinions of the environment that... On the one hand, we may be aware that some defend the status quo, because some research institutes do not really meet the standards that we would like to require, and they defend themselves against these changes. Nevertheless, you can't just put them all in one sack and treat them all equally. Therefore, we will also take into account negative environmental opinions, negative opinions of other clubs. Therefore, as I said, if these most important amendments, which will at least somehow improve this project, are not adopted, the Modern Club will be against this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Circle of Members Now! You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Every time a project on science and higher education is presented in this room, we meet with various protests from the scientific community. I would like to emphasise, remind and consider today, because we still have work to do in the committee after second reading, the comments of the General Council of Science and Higher Education and the RASP. First of all, they point to doubts as to whether the provisions of the proposed law can guarantee the implementation of the mission of the research network and ensure its effective functioning and management. The functioning of the network should be based on proven models for the management of such projects, and there is a risk that there will be no synergies in this case. KRASP asks why 38 institutes are included in the network. On the other hand, there is a very high rank of members of the board, which is not reflected in the tasks of the board again, because we can recognise that they are purely formal and bureaucratic, as we are talking about approving plans, opinions of institutes, approval of companies, merger of institutes. The Network should be supervised by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs in agreement with the Minister responsible for Science. Another issue that is raised is overemployment. The number of about 100 people is indicated and it is difficult to expect such an entity to carry out good coordination and research activities, including commercialisation. These are Krasp's comments. This is the question of how the distribution of the benefits of commercialisation will be carried out, because I assume that this will be possible. I mean, there will be situations when individual institutes cooperate, carry out research, and the distribution of benefits resulting from commercialization will belong to the entire Łukasiewicz network. I would very much like to ask you to respond, to these comments of the General Council of Science and Higher Education and of the KRASP. I, in my first reading, paid attention above all, and this argument I maintain that the centralisation of research institutes is worrying. This is still valid after the first reading of the committee. Nothing about this has changed. I just think, given the experience we have so far with the Law and Justice, which are particularly specific areas of public life - I think - that this will be a big setback when the Łukasiewicz Institutes are launched, but these effects will not be, and for business they will be miserable. So I'm asking you to reconsider. I am submitting an amendment to the Article. 97 point 3 on the form of employment, appointment and employment contracts, because there are formal and substantive divergences in the new law on higher education, as the experts point out. I'm putting them in your hands, Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u75	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions about the project submitted. First of all, how is the matter of employment to be developed in connection with the creation of the network and the centre? Will the number of people receiving remuneration in connection with the operation of the network be at the level of the total number of people achieving such remuneration today within institutes that are expected to enter the network? The second issue, the network, in particular its heart - Centrum Łukasiewicz, will have a centralized opportunity to influence research and development policies in Poland. As we know, from the recent events described widely in the media, economic espionage in today's world and the impact on the development of modern technologies is an important part of the agency activity of many countries. Therefore, at this stage, should not the Law establishing the Research Network include provisions requiring its management to work in particular with the Internal Security Agency and, at the same time, require the ABW and other counterintelligence services to protect such a sensitive institution? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u77	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have such a brief question about this magic number 38. Why will these 38 institutes be part of the Łukasiewicz network? Will it be an open network, or will it be possible to aspire to it? How? And I would like to ask you one more question, because here I hear that many institutes are defending themselves, that is, complaining, protesting against this bill, and from my information it appears that these are institutes that are contesting the ones that are really living out of the fact that they are renting rooms and not from their research achievements. That's why I'm asking what's going on with these institutes. Will they continue to function as they have so far? Will it encourage them to do more work, not just [[♪ The bell ♪]] Life from what they rent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u79	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u80	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not know why Mrs Michalek asks the Minister because it is supposed to be a parliamentary project. I will therefore address the rapporteur. Here's the question. There's 38 people online. How was the consultation? How many institutes have they talked to? How many institutes have agreed to go online? The point is that we should know exactly which institutes refused to join the network or expressed a negative opinion on its accession. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u81	Thank you very much, sir. And please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Minister Piotr Dardziński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If you don't mind, I will start by answering Mrs Iwona Michalek's questions, supplemented by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, about this thread, which also appeared in other speeches - the number of institutes and the processes in which it was consulted. The proposed concept of the Łukasiewicz Research Network was consulted with all stakeholders. In the form of a parliamentary project, it was sent for monthly consultations, which were not shortened and included all the representatives of the institutes. So that the institutes could learn about this project. The results of this consultation were graciously quoted. We have the comments of the General Council of Science and Higher Education and the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland. I would like to point out here that most of these are not opinions rejecting the project itself. These are opinions that relate to detailed doubts or questions, while they do not reject the very idea of establishing the Łukasiewicz Research Network. No other protests were brought in the context of this public consultation. Then what we can presume means that both the Council of the Central Research Institutes and other bodies representing the research institutes of this protest are missing. The criterion for joining the Łukasiewicz Research Network was the decision of the Minister's Supervisory Institutes. Ministers have for many years, not since this government's term of office, been overseeing individual institutes and carrying out their control and supervisory functions in relation to them, which we actually duplicate in this law, i.e. we do not change anything here. The competent minister, after consulting his directors of institutes, decided which of these institutes would be included in the Łukasiewicz Research Network, which means that the decision to join the Łukasiewicz Research Network was taken by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, and this is the vast majority of institutes, as well as the Ministry of Digitalization and the Ministry of Energy. It was a decision made by the ministers in consultation with the directors. All the directors of institutes who have been declared as being able to create the Łukasiewicz Research Network have been consulted on the detailed arrangements proposed in this Act. At least, I think we've met four times with all the directors. Any one of them could have made comments. I also pointed out at the meeting of the joint committees that some of the proposed amendments, which were tabled by the trade unions, were... In fact, we could agree with these proposals, but that would mean that we would have to withdraw the solutions that we introduced into the law as a result of a public consultation, in other words: we have taken into account those comments that the directors have submitted to us as more functional, and even if today another part of the environment would like to change them, we are already in these common arrangements. These 38 institutes represent very much different institutes. Of course, there are also those that have a slightly less optimal income structure, as we might expect from them. I allow myself to be slightly rhetorical... gentleness towards these institutes, because - this is very important - we, after a deeper analysis of institutes, came to the conclusion that it is not the art of closing institutes, the art is to exploit their potential. Very often these institutes, which are in a very difficult situation today, actually save their budget by renting office space. With a better governance structure and opportunities for use, e.g. from both staff and infrastructure resources of other institutes, they can start working much better. That is why we do not want to eliminate, close or stigmatise only institutes, but rather to combine them and use their potential in the right way. The network is, as Mrs Michalek asked, open. You'll be able to approach her. The decision will each time, as consistently from the beginning, belong to the competent minister supervising the competent institute. It is also a principle of network cooperation with external actors. As you have pointed out, we have a special provision that talks about the possibility of establishing partnerships, which is particularly important, with universities, because it responds to the problem that you have reported, the problem of degrees and academic titles. The Scientific Personnel in the Research Network Łukasiewicz will be able to develop its academic career paths, but in this case we would like to take advantage of the powers that universities will have. We think it's a mechanism. not only more attractive and effective, but also strengthening cooperation between universities, institutes. Are we dealing with any protests? This law was whether these solutions were consulted with the environment for so long, that I think we are all in a situation where we would like to be resolved, as if the consultation process itself, to be decided and verified, to verify how these mechanisms work, rather than to continue to discuss them only and exclusively. Mr Piotr Pyzik asked about the structure of employment. As a rule, new people will appear at the Research Network Centre of Łukasiewicz. This will be a very small centre, taking into account comparable French or German organisations. On the other hand, employment issues are regulated in accordance with labour law, employment issues in research institutes, research institutes of the Łukasiewicz Research Network will be subject to the same regulations that other institutes are subject to, i.e. labour law will not violate any requirements here. I understand that this is a bit of a question referring to how many scientific staff will be in the Łukasiewicz Research Network. In the first period this number will be the same as what it is now. On the other hand, any questions that concern such issues, my or our answer is always the same. The decisions will be made by the directors and the center. If policy is to be further shaped, it is not a question of the decision of the Ministry. And that's how I hope I answered all the questions. If I've left one of them out, I'm asking you to forgive me and, of course, we'll give you... [[Distribution of benefits...]] Distribution of benefits in the network itself. [[Yes.]] I mean, here's the rule. Oh, I know that, actually, one of you has been paying attention to the fact that the legal form is inconsistent, I think it was Mr Brynus that we have a network... The Centre of the Research Network Łukasiewicz is a state legal entity, and research institutes of the Łukasiewicz network have their own legal personality, not state personality. This is due to the fact that most of the budget of the Centre will be a public budget, because the Centre itself will not deal directly with commercialisation. And I'm referring here to the problem of distribution. The centre is not, as if working at its own expense, to work at the expense of institutes, i.e. to be such a classic support institution. On the other hand, as for the structure of the distribution of funds, which is our internal algorithm, this will be the subject of negotiations and discussions between all directors. So the directors of the College together with the future president of the Łukasiewicz Research Network will determine how the funds will be distributed online, and please note that these funds will consist of several levels. Level one is the grant that institutes are getting today and it is already being paid, which is the basic budget that is the budget of each institute. There are also funds that will be allocated to specific projects implemented within the network. And there will still be budgets for special tasks that will be built in consortia. Each time the decision will be a collegial decision, and he will manage the process of obtaining consent, this discussion will be moderated by the President. If you ask me if this is possible, I can tell you that in one of the companies we supervise, there are, for example, companies. investment panels introducing a culture in which none of the managers of an entity within the company can purchase any infrastructure or equipment unless they obtain the consent of all other managers. In this sense, the president, the director of this company, does not decide personally, but says: You must agree on what is really needed by our entire organization. We would like to move this model to a higher level in the future. As you can see, this is not a matter of centralization, it is simply a matter of coordination. Today, institutes don't have this mechanism. And the potential is great, and even during the previous parliamentary debate, I mentioned the first reading that in this respect we are proposing solutions that are similar or similar, I would draw attention to those that operate in Germany or France. We have VTT advisors, which is from a very efficient Finnish network. The experience of Finland is particularly important to us, because it is a country that has also made up for some kind of arrears. It has a much smaller structure compared to such a powerful organisation as Fraunhofer, and can be so effective that it ranks fourth in the ranking of those who make the best use of funds from Horizon 2020. So we take advantage of our experiences, we critically approach them and apply them wisely to our reality. Let me stress once again: the fact that only part of the institutes are part of the network, in my opinion, is an advantage. This can be seen as a practical attempt to verify whether commercialisation processes cannot be carried out in a different mode than they have been carried out so far - without the liquidation of earlier ones. If we have commercialisation in universities, research institutes that remain in the old regime and throughout the Łukasiewicz Research Network, we will be able to analyse and compare which of these solutions are most effective. Since I am pleased to be the representative of the Prime Minister for the reform of research institutes, I can, of course, stress on this occasion that all institutes are equally valuable to us and we will also support those research institutes which will not operate within the Łukasiewicz Research Network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. And please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Lydia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Many Members have asked the question of who is the author of the project. I would like to stress that its authors are a group of Members, but it is not difficult to note that the matter of this parliamentary project concerns the world of science and is connected with it lively. The support of the Minister for Science and Higher Education is absolutely on the ground and shows that both Members and the Government are committed to one thing: to pursue a strategy for responsible development, because its introduction aims primarily at linking the world of science with the world of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the potential of research institutes has not been fully exploited. Polish institutes lost on this and did not exploit their capabilities. Therefore, thank you very much for all the substantive votes and for today's discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u85	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Health Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products, print No 3244. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on the Agency for Medical Research (prints 3106 and 3221). I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A few words of introduction. The establishment of the Medical Research Agency was justified by the need to create institutional support for the organization and financing of analyses and research in health care, which will contribute to the innovation of Polish medicine. The Agency is to support the development of research in the field of medical sciences, health sciences and the development of medical technologies, including, what is very important, non-commercial clinical trials on medicinal products and medical devices. It is also intended to support epidemiological research and modelling on the basis of large public data collections in health care. All of the functions listed here and similar to those of the Medical Research Agency are important, but it seems that the most important function is to arrange, organise, coordinate and finance non-commercial clinical trials, namely clinical trials, which are not funded by pharmaceutical companies or companies operating on the medical devices market. Such public institutions, such as the Medical Research Agency, operate in many developed countries and have a moderate and inspiring impact on clinical research markets, including. by undertaking research which does not fall within the scope of concern. In many countries, they allow development potential to be built in the sphere of national health systems, increasing the revenues of public entities in these countries. The interesting thing is that some of these foreign institutions have signals of waiting for the appointment of a Polish counterpart, which will be the Agency for Medical Research. It must be remembered that the strength of the Polish health system is the medical staff with a high research potential and well developed research infrastructure. It is prepared to conduct high-tech research. In short, it's time to set up a medical research agency. The government project on this issue was slightly modified following work in the Sejm. The main changes are as follows. Firstly, the principle of appointment of the President of the Agency was introduced in the procedure of the competition procedure, while, of course, maintaining all the high requirements for the candidate that the project provided for. Secondly, it was decided explicitly, not by default, to transfer to the acting President of the Agency during a transitional period, i.e. in the period before the appointment of the President, his statutory powers, i.e. the statutory powers assigned to the Head of the Agency. Thirdly, a number of amendments have been made in order and legislative terms. Most of the votes of the Sejm Health Committee rejected the nine amendments tabled in the course of the work, which eventually became so-called. minority proposals. On behalf of the committee, I hope that on behalf of the entire committee, I am convinced that the law on the Agency for Medical Research needs to be adopted quickly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u87	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to warmly welcome the ladies from Piotrków Trybunalski, who are in the Sejm today, because they have bid out invitations to the Sejm, supporting sick children in the action of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. Thank you very much, ladies. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u88	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club Law and Justice a position regarding the draft law on the Agency for Medical Research, print No. 3106. The project concerns the definition of rules for the functioning of a funding and organisationally supporting research in the field of medical sciences and health sciences. First of all, I would like to point out that the establishment of a Medical Research Agency, the main objective of which is to develop innovative activities in the field of medical sciences and health sciences, is part of the government's strategy for responsible development. The increase in R &amp; D expenditure, which will ultimately translate into health benefits for patients as well as the increase in the importance of innovative sectors of the economy, is another step towards equalizing the potential of Poland and Western European countries. Non-commercial clinical trials, which account for only 1% today all clinical trials conducted in Poland, give researchers a unique opportunity to solve problems posed by the ordering party, which is not only driven by the desire to maximize profits. In countries with agencies similar institutions, the percentage of non-commercial research often exceeds 30%. Non-commercial research, unlike those commissioned by international pharmaceutical companies, allows to find new indications that have not yet been applied in the case of already functioning medicines. It is also a hope of recovering from rare diseases for which commercial solutions will never arise. A strong Agency for Medical Research provides an opportunity to verify the results of other studies, of which up to 40% according to data presented by leading journals It doesn't work again. Can Poland really afford to spend hundreds of millions of zlotys on products that have been authorised on the basis of such data? That's a question I'm gonna let leave unanswered. In the future, the Agency for Medical Research will also be about the strength of the Polish economy, in which the medical sector can be one of the pillars of innovative activity. According to a study conducted in the United States, every dollar invested in research and development translates into nearly $15 in revenue from the sale of new drugs. Polish patients deserve to have access to medicines produced in the country. The pharmaceutical industry brings multimillion-dollar profits and creates high-paying jobs. It is time for them to appear not only in Paris and London, but also in Kraków, Bialystok and Rzeszów. Establishment of a new institution It's always an investment. So the question arises: Can we afford to make such an investment today? The Government of Law and Justice once again points to the direction of development of strong Poland. It will only be strong thanks to institutions that will be able to undertake ambitious projects. Medical Research Agency is not an experiment, it is a proven concept based on experience, among others. the experience of the United States and Great Britain. Ensuring stable and long-term funding for research projects will attract researchers from around the world and will allow ambitious projects to be carried out. We want the next generations to inherit the philosophical stone, not the poop stones. Minister! Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above position, the Law and Justice Club recommends the adoption by the Sejm of a draft law on the Agency for Medical Research. In the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on behalf of the Club Law and Justice, I submit an amendment to the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u89	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that after I heard that this building of the agency fits into the strategy for sustainable development and gives the Polish economy strength and that the next generation will leave a philosophical stone, it is actually unknown what to answer. The Act was intended to systematize the problem of financing medical research with the focus on non-commercial research. And that is the only thing that has been included in the law on the creation of agencies, a small thing, namely that there is a specific financing of these researches. Because this problem needs to be solved, he's already tense today. And indeed, doctors must have a source of funding in doing this research, and we support it. But the agency to be created will be managed by the President appointed for 12 months by the Minister. We said this, we fought for it: Make this president choose by way of a competition, however, so that people will start, submit documents, and the competition committee will analyze, select the best president who will answer. The answer is, there's gonna be a president from the contest, but after 12 months, because for now we're the CEO. So it's a post-election contest. What else do we see in this bill? What this president now or rather p.o. Will the CEO be able to do the agency and everything? She's gonna initiate a study. Very well, but she'll do it herself. And how? Who knows? Because not a word about it is in this law, which means, what tools, what instruments. We don't know, no information. Ha, what else can this agency do? She will buy companies and companies in Poland and abroad. A very good president, appointed by the minister, will buy a company. Because if we come up with something innovative, this philosophical stone of Mrs Krynicka, that's what we're gonna earn, but we're gonna have our companies and partners, we're gonna keep them, we're gonna finance them. As he found out, his little CEOs will be in these companies because we'll have them. Great. We'll also work with patients, but once the patient organizations report their candidates, we'll dress them up, pick the one we want him to be. It would be best if he were one who supported the philosophy of law and justice and supported this strategy for sustainable development, and would be on the board of foundations. The foundation board will be set up within two months. It is not known what she has been doing all year round. The president will do because he has already done everything, but there will be one president It's our choice. What are the most important sources of funding for this agency? Budget? OK. But the most important source is a copy of the National Health Fund. How's that? With the money that should be used to fund the treatment of patients. Patients object to this. It was yesterday that the representatives of the oncology organization Alivia said at the committee meeting: Look, there is a drug introduced into the drug program, there is a drug program, only patients don't get it because the National Health Fund says this: treat this medicine, but we won't give you money for it, because we don't have it. Practically every day on Facebook, on Twitter, on all TV shows, we have information everywhere: give support for patients' treatment because the fund doesn't exist. People need to take it out of their pockets and give it to them. You need to be sued for the treatment of a child with cancer or for the treatment of this patient in a drug program for which there is no money, from a drug program for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. High Izbo! Great words, upper fly, philosophical stones - at the expense of what? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The cost of treating patients. The Platform Club will not support this bill. We're reporting, Your Marshal, the corrections I'm putting in your hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u91	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I represent not so much the environment... i.e. I don't represent the environment of doctors, scientists, researchers at all. I represent the environment of patients. We look with great surprise and disgust at the level of non-commercial research in Poland. It is indeed outrageous that we are solely devoted to research financed by the companies, which has directly consequences such that neither the Minister nor the doctors nor the patients really know what is being given to our children, what is being given to us. We don't know that because no one's investigating it with our money. This is researched for the company's money. Trust in pharmaceutical companies is a little smaller than the Minister's, but not much. In fact, patients stop trusting, because where do we get that knowledge if the research is funded by one of the parties? Now the Minister is submitting a project. In fact, it's not known how much money, it's hundreds of millions of zlotys, it's supposed to go to the agency. Exactly. The agency of what? Medical Research Agency or medical research funding agency? In the first year, the Minister wants to spend a few million... [[50.]] ...for everything: equipment, rents, jobs, but not gold for equipment that can be used for research. Unless it's some kind of intellectual research that doesn't need equipment, but I think it's a waste of money. Today we have three institutions in Poland that can carry out this type of research, which the Minister spoke about in this bill. Why would the Minister want to call a fourth? So there'll be jobs for the fourth board of directors, for the fourth president? Reading this law literally gives the impression that the president of this agency is already elected. The bill is to enter into force after 14 days and immediately after the next 2 weeks the entire financial skeleton, the conceptual skeleton, is to enter into force. It means there's someone here. That's what they're talking about in the halls, Minister. It's not a secret. I would very much like a bill that will set up a reliable institute, a reliable agency that will really be on behalf of Poles, not on behalf of companies, examine what we are giving to our children, our parents and patients, but this law, Minister, does not even promise that. I'm not saying it's a guarantee anymore. This bill doesn't promise that. This bill will actually create another institution to hire your colleagues. We hesitated, we discussed at the club, whether, with regard to this bill, to vote against or abstain, to give you some credit, but in my opinion, Minister, your resort has already exhausted that credit. We're not. I won't be able to support that. I wish that in fact in Poland non-commercial research would represent at least a dozen percent, as is the case in all European countries, but not this way, Minister. Just hand over the money to the institutions that are already running it today, they can run it, they have the staff, they have the equipment, they have the know-how. You really don't need to create anything new. Since the mixing of tea itself, Minister, it doesn't get any sweeter. We need to put some sugar in there. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u93	Thank you very much, sir. I wanted to welcome Piotrkowski Szczecin Szczecin of Scouting Teams together with KPH. Welcome. [[Applause]] And now I invite Mr Jan Łopata, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u94	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the Agency for Medical Research. High Seym! The government's initiative in this area, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, aims to lay down rules for the functioning of a funding and organisationally supporting research in the field of medical sciences and health sciences, including. initiated by healthcare management institutions, and thus ensuring dynamic, as it is written, development of medical sciences and health sciences and related improvement of the functioning of the health care system and the increase in the innovation of Polish medicine, of course for the benefit of patients. The Agency's main objective will be to finance research and development projects in the field of medical sciences and health sciences and interdisciplinary projects for medical purposes, which will be selected through a competition - that is further from the justification. In addition, the Agency will be responsible for issuing opinions and expertise in the field of medical sciences and health sciences to public administrations. The establishment of a Medical Research Agency is justified by unsatisfactory reasons - it is worth quoting once again: it is justified by unsatisfactory levels of funding for scientific research in the field of medical sciences and health sciences and the need to provide institutional support for the financing of analyses and research in health care. Its creation will ensure the development of medical sciences. Period. So much for that. All good, wonderful arguments, the bright future of the institution, which will be, because it will probably be so, the Agency for Medical Research, and Polish health services in general. But, High Izbo, Minister, we all know that's not how it works. The condition of a given area of social life is not dependent on the number and name of the institution. Nor will the level of funding for research and the health system depend on the establishment of another institution. But with the fact that the level of funding is low, unsatisfying, we have to agree, because this phenomenon is unfortunately intensifying. We get information - and requests for intervention - about the deteriorating condition of independent public health establishments, whose total commitments at the end of the year last year, 2018 is about 13 billion PLN. There is also a very dynamic increase in commitments due. That's almost PLN 2 billion. As regards the commitments of the third quarter of 2018 compared to the commitments of the first quarter, this dynamic is as much as 120%. It's a very disturbing phenomenon. Payment obligations due for medicines and medical materials are already more than 50%. It's a direct threat to patients. By quoting this data, I do not want to present here a catastrophic vision, nor do I want to deny the need to set up this new institution. The point is - as before it rained - that it should be within a different framework, on different terms. I would also like to call for reasonableness and priorities, for priorities to be set, and this is where I am heading my vote. I also want to support these voices in the discussions that say that every penny directly reducing resources from the National Health Fund is making the tragic health situation worse. High Seym! I say this without enthusiasm, but unfortunately I cannot support the draft law establishing the Agency for Medical Research. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u95	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Drafts of laws, like the one that is being processed today about the Agency for Medical Research, should serve the development of Polish medicine and support of research conducted by our specialists. I am pleased that some of the proposed amendments to the Act were introduced during the work of the subcommittee. At the beginning of my term of office, I would sincerely believe that the shortcomings in this project were caused solely by oversight. However, following recent years, I am aware that the desire to elect the president of this institution by appointment was deliberate. Fortunately, the strong opposition of a large proportion of the members of the subcommittee resulted in the withdrawal from this dubious idea. It is a pity that the requests to define requirements for candidates for individual management positions, as was highlighted by, among other things, The Sejm Analysis Office has not been completed. I suppose it's supposed to make it easier to fill these jobs with the right people. For such actions, which the Modern considers absolutely unacceptable, we have gotten used to it. However, the worst part is that in the same opinion, the Sejm Analysis Office also states: the proposed regulations do not sufficiently guarantee impartiality in the selection of projects. This may mean that in the next state institution, party nominees will be free to decide how public money is spent, most likely passing it on to projects and research close to the world view of rulers. At this point I would like to draw attention to the amendment which I will place on your hands a marshal on behalf of the Modern Posel Club. This amendment guarantees, and not only allows, the participation of experts in the evaluation of projects. National scientific institutions should serve as a role model for the substantive preparation of workers and public spending. Therefore, competition procedures and objective criteria affecting the selection of funded projects should be natural and the involvement of experts in their assessment should be mandatory. Unfortunately, under the rule of law and justice, the ideology of health care is progressing: the elimination of the in vitro programme, step by step introduced conscience clauses for various professions involving work with patients, the elimination of private healthcare providers, as was the case with the Law on the so-called. hospital networks, or the allocation of PLN 100 million to the programme of naprotechnology. These are only a few examples of the treatment of the health system as a private office. We are now witnessing the creation of an agency with a budget of several hundred million zlotys a year, and its President will be able to freely allocate these funds, for example. for non-commercial research on the effectiveness of naprotechnology. However, the same budget could be used primarily for faster access to specialist doctors. Ladies and gentlemen! We are all beneficiaries of medical research, regardless of the values we have. Their funding should be a priority for us. To this end, we should take the example of ready-made solutions in other countries. The British Medical Research Council, which is the equivalent of the newly established Medical Research Agency, is financed by subjective grants. So, if we want to develop research in Poland, we should finance it in the same way. Currently, due to many years of negligence, non-commercial research in Poland is only 2% the market, while in other countries it is almost 30%. Due to the numerous doubts I have mentioned, Moderna believes that although the development of medical research in Poland is desirable and very important, the law in this form is unacceptable. We will vote against this project. I'm making an amendment to your Marshal's hand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u97	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of questions you are asking? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, asks as the first question. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u98	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, there is a lack of non-commercial medical research in Poland, but I have the impression that this law and the Agency for Medical Research is not the case. It's about the place, it's about the position, it's also about the new institution that this crew will be able to fill. This is really very sad, because you want to spend your money on treating patients for the functioning of the Medical Research Agency. Write-down of 0,3% The income of the NFZ is to take the money used by Polish patients, seniors as part of geriatric care, which lies, Minister. Alzheimer's patients are treated in care and care facilities with an underestimation of approximately 40% and you are creating a new institution whose tasks are de facto carried out at the moment by the National Centre for Research and Development. Isn't it better to use these resources? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a different purpose? Isn't it better to leave these resources in the NFZ and put them to real use for the treatment of our seniors? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u99	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Will you support the amendment that I have before me, which concerns the separation of non-commercial research from the fund for these research within research and separation agencies, including in the competition, from a whole range of other applications? According to the provisions of the Act, standing in line for non-commercial research that will not bring any profit to the company... The benefit from these studies will only be obtained by a patient, who is often not treated according to modern therapies when these studies are not conducted in Poland. In fact, at the moment, there's no way that without terribly dwarfing feats, asking the sponsor, which is the rector, who doesn't have any money for it, and paying off-budget centers... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will you support this amendment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u101	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Asking for funding from the National Health Fund budget. It's been here several times, but I would like you to confirm this: Are you familiar with cases that in 2018 a lot of hospitals are not paid for medications in terms of schematics and drug programs? These amounts are quite large on the scale of Poland as a whole, while the state provides for a write-down of 0.3 from the National Health Fund budget. For the year 2020, it is over PLN 250 million. This is a lot of money that could be used for something else, as my previous speaker said. At the moment, you're giving away money from a national fund with a light hand, which I don't think it's appropriate to use. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u103	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the substantive reasons for setting up a new entity within such a very large public administration. Could the same tasks, for example. perform a new cell in the arms of the NCBR or any other entity already in existence? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u105	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask if there are similar agencies in other countries that support non-commercial medical research. If so, do we anticipate cooperation with such agencies? Are such agencies simply asking us any questions and requests that we set up a kind of institution that would enable them to cooperate? I would like to ask how such agencies affect the development of medical potential in those countries, and how this will translate into the development of this potential in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u107	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The dispute raises, as is the case in this Chamber, the issue of the transfer of funds from the health fund - the marginal amount of... [[Not marginal.]] ...that's 3 for non-commercial clinical trials. Simple question: Will Polish patients receive indirect or direct benefits? For the sake of order, I would like to remind you that phases three and four of the clinical trials are simply about the treatment of patients, often with medicines or medicinal products authorised, only to check some of the new aspects of the effects of these medicines. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u109	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Name: The Agency for Medical Research sounds so proud and it would seem that we should all agree, in principle, that non-commercial medical research should receive support today, but here ends the enthusiasm of actually all parties, as it turns out, the Parliament hall. There are many questions, some of them are already dead. Someone said a marginal amount from the National Health Fund. This marginal amount is the equivalent of what we spend on all vaccinations reimbursed in Poland for children and adults, so is it a marginal amount? So let's add the second marginal amount that we want to allocate to these purposes, and let's give to Polish children, the Polish society modern vaccines, which are available today on the market, and which we were supposedly unable to afford when we introduced, for example. Pneumococcal vaccination. That's one thing. Second... [[♪ The bell ♪]] One more question. Secondly, when do we find out what the readability of research applications will be? Because today, there is absolutely nothing from the bill except that it will be full discretion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u111	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u112	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the Act on the Medical Research Agency is being processed in the Polish Parliament. Such agencies are set up in various European countries, including the United States. Research is a driving force for the development of European economies and world economies, which increases the quality of medicine. My question, Minister, is: What are the chances for the Polish economy and for Polish patients connected with the establishment of the Medical Research Agency? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u113	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! However, as we can see, the most emotional issue is the question of funding this agency. Indeed, it might be wiser to strengthen the NCBR and place professionals there and make a much stronger health path than it currently is. However, taking this money from the National Health Fund raises doubts, even among PiS Members. So I ask you to think about it, all the more so that from the information we have, we also learn that the famous law, the so-called. Act 6% GDP also does not fully meet the expectations of this system. It turns out that expenditure for 2019 is planned in accordance with the principle, only that the allocation of this money is to be allocated by 2017, and therefore there will be a reduction in the amount of appropriations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to protect health. In addition, taking money from the National Health Fund causes us great concerns. So the question is, why don't we go back to the NCBR? [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am also one of those who have high hopes for the establishment of the Medical Research Agency. I hope that, in the near future, the Polish medical thought will finally find its translation into the emergence of new medicines, finding new treatments or obtaining very important data. My question concerns the so-called. interdisciplinary research, which is related to different fields of science. There are such areas common to medicine and veterinary medicine. I will give two examples: zoos, that is, animal diseases and people that are transmitted from animals to humans, and for example. the issue of antibiotic resistance, the emergence of bacteria that are resistant to antibiotics, where there are also relationships between the world [[♪ The bell ♪]] veterinary and the world of human medicine. Will veterinary operators or in conjunction with human medicine entities be able to aspire, apply for funds from this newly established institution? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u118	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! During the first reading of the draft law on the Medical Research Agency, all clubs supported the idea of setting up such an agency. [[That's not true.]] Specially for this committee meeting you arrived Prof. Marian Zembala, former Minister of Health of the Civic Platform Government. I'd like to remind you of the Professor's words. I quote: The Agency for Medical Research would develop science and medicine; this initiative should be supported beyond divisions. The same was true of the former Prime Minister Kopacz and Professor Chybick. Ladies and gentlemen! It was only at the session of the subcommittee that Prof. Radziszewska, punishing Prof. Chybick, who, as a result, had missed the session of the subcommittee, that she convinced her to change her mind. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! Question to the opposition: What happened that you changed your mind? [[Those are questions to the opposition?]] Who, and how, convinced Mrs Radziszewska that you are so torpedoing this bill? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The questions are for the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u119	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Apart from the money that might go into the research, I'd like to say that the money alone that goes to the administration, the things that aren't for anybody but your colleagues that you're gonna hire there... Yesterday at the Health Committee meeting we heard that 10 PLN, 7 PLN per day, to finance the presence of a parent with a sick child, exceeds the possibilities of the Polish state. Don't you think it would be better to put the money that way? Second question. There's an article in this law. 29. You know him. The agency was supposed to be doing non-commercial research. That's a great thing. In this article you write that the agency will be able to establish companies, include shares in companies in Poland, but also in tax havens. Is this really about research? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course this agency is extremely needed, and of course it will fill the gap. This is necessary to ensure that what is being discovered in Poland can be used by Polish companies and not by foreign companies. In addition, you are unlucky - I am addressing colleagues from the Civic Platform - because I have worked in the Health Committee for several years and I remember how you took the funding of these vaccines from ministerial money and threw them into the National Health Fund. Check it out, that's the facts, that was the bill. The funding has been transferred to the National Health Fund, so now don't cry crocodiles that something will be taken. This notabene money goes to patients too... [[Promile.]] ...but there will be some funding from the National Health Fund. Remember that, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because this bill is really necessary and it's too bad you changed your mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u123	Thank you. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u124	Thank you, Marshal. Obviously, there's a problem. Even PiS Members do not understand why this task, namely the financing of non-commercial research, those unsponsored, cannot be entrusted to the entity that is already there. Because you can do it, and we're all for it. We declared it at the committee meeting and declare it today. Yes, money for this non-commercial research, please, can be transferred from the budget and please entrust it to the entity that operates rather than create a new entity. It hurts and it hurts more that you're taking, and it's not promile, from the National Health Fund money, where there's money for treatment. Why? Because the finance minister doesn't want to give you out of the budget, he doesn't want to consent to this agency of yours. What's the problem? 1,300 million PLN for TVPiS - only this tip, just 300 million, please, for this agency... It won't be a problem. [[And there's the agency.]] We'll back it up then. It's not for regime television, it's for patients' treatment. [[Voice from the room: On TVN and the Gazeta Wyborcza.]] And I will only answer one thing, Mr Marshal, Mrs Krynicka. Mr Prof. Zembala said it in his name and ask him. Perhaps he has the feeling that he has not fully completed what he started, that he has not fully solved the issue of financing non-commercial research. Maybe I'm using an excessive term, but maybe he's got a moral hangover that he didn't finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u125	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u126	And we support that, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u127	Okay, Member, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u128	We do not support the creation of an agency that consumes patients' money. And basta. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u129	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Janusz Cieszyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u130	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for the questions. While most of these issues have already been explained during the committee meeting, if you would like to come back to this, let's talk about this here too. We start with Mr Szczerby's question: Isn't it better to use these resources for a different purpose if there is a National Centre for Research and Development? Ladies and gentlemen, the answer to this question is very simple and it is a pity that the Member is not in the Chamber to hear this answer. [[Oh, dear, rude.]] Today we spend 1% on non-commercial research And in the West, it's 30%. And this shows how the current institutions that carry out tasks in your assessment similar, but in our view unlike... [[We know it's different in your opinion.]] And this has been raised several times during the committee's deliberations. If we look at the laws on NCN, NCBR or other institutions that operate in the research ecosystem or medical technology assessment, we can see clearly that these objectives are separate from the objective of setting up a Medical Research Agency, which is clearly indicated in the law, and this is intended to carry out innovative activities. Mrs Chybicka asked if we would support the amendment on the allocation of the fund for non-commercial research. Madam President, we fully agree that non-commercial research should be financed, that is very clearly stated in the Act, and it is also worth looking at the justification, where we clearly point out that the funds from the write-off from the National Health Fund will be earmarked for non-commercial research. I'd also like to correct some inaccuracies right away. Ladies and gentlemen, in the impact assessment of the regulation, we are very clear that in the next 10 years most of the funding for the functioning of the Medical Research Agency will come from the state budget. And the purpose of introducing such a financing instrument as a deduction from the National Health Fund is to introduce a stable and predictable source of funding that is necessary to carry out multi-annual projects. Mrs Gelert asked about the funding of the National Health Fund for drug programmes in 2018. Of course, all invoices that will go to the National Health Fund, which are correctly presented for settlement, will be paid. Recent activities related to the closure of the year at the National Health Fund are still ongoing. You all know very well that an institution with a budget of more than PLN 80 billion must account for the zloty from this budget. According to the Act, the National Health Fund still has time for this settlement. And you know very well that this is very big money, it concerns very sensitive things, because it is the financing of drug therapies. That is why the National Health Fund needs time to carry out these accounts, and they will be carried out on the dollar. Mr Pyzik asked whether the National Centre for Research and Development could not take over these tasks. As I have already said, the National Centre for Research and Development performs other tasks and is in the current state an institution which generally distributes funds originating in the European Union. This task does well. This, on the other hand, is a separate task with the tasks we predicted for the Medical Research Agency. Therefore, in our view, the establishment of such a cell would not meet the condition that we place before the Agency for Medical Research. Mrs April asked whether such institutions function in other countries or if we are planning to cooperate. They're functioning. We also talked about this during the work of the committee and the subcommittee, among others. It's in the United Kingdom and the United States. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an institution we call blind. We have already talked to representatives of these foreign institutions, there have been a number of visits of both our representatives in the United States and representatives of foreign institutions in Poland, during which we have already discussed future perspectives for cooperation. So that this international component in research is extremely important, because Polish science will be strong not when it develops only in its own sauce, but just when it will be active in the international arena. Mr Dziuba asked whether the Agency's effects would be only indirect, forward-looking, or whether we are talking about a direct positive impact on the patient today. Polish patients will be able to participate in the clinical trials that will be conducted by the agency. So that they will benefit from its existence and functioning precisely through the possibility to benefit from the benefits that the Agency will provide in the course of these studies. Mrs Gądek asked about the competitions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear in the Act that each competition takes place under the programme, and the Act clearly states that each programme must have measurable objectives and action plans. This is written in the bill. That is why we take this professionally, we show you that such requirements are already set at the level of the law. We do not say to you: Take our word for it, this will be done by a rational president. No. This is clearly stated in the Act: In order to be able to spend any money in the competition, the programme must first be described, set out the real, measurable objectives of the programme and then present a plan for its implementation. And only then can we talk about spending any public money. As for Mr Wróblewska's question, what are the chances for Polish patients and the Polish economy, ladies and gentlemen, there are opportunities for us to finally have an instrument for conducting non-commercial clinical trials in Poland, research which is not currently being conducted. As I said at the outset, it's about 1 and 2% for the time being. Not 30%, as if we were expecting it. Ms Malecka-Libera also asked about the NCBR. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are already pointing out some other institution to deal with this, let's see... In my view, none of these activities are close to what the Medical Research Agency is supposed to do, but it would probably be closer to the activities of the National Science Centre. Therefore, if you are already suggesting such ideas, I really encourage you to look at how these institutions are currently operating and at least try to get to the nearest one with regard to the ABM project. With regard to Mr Szulowski's question on interdisciplinary research, of course they will be possible and, of course, the agency's objective is interdisciplinary cooperation, which is also possible in the veterinary field. Now, in response to Mr Skutecki's question, I must admit that he has exceptional merits for spreading false information that directly affects the interests of Polish patients. I hope you're aware of that. What you're saying, and what you said when you presented the club's position, where you questioned the validity of the research... I strongly encourage reflection. [[It's not research. It's just...]] [[Financing.]] No, no, no. I listened exactly to what you said. You questioned the validity, you questioned the results of the research on which the treatment is currently being conducted. I think you should really think about whether it's worth saying things like that from the Seym Hall, because people who are here at the gallery who watch it on TV or in Intrenet listen to it. And they later wonder, " If someone has said that what a doctor ordains us, and yet we have doctors in the courtroom, is based on unconfirmed tests, should I be treated? ' Based on this type of fake news - and you know it perfectly well - people do not take treatment according to current medical knowledge. I really encourage far-reaching reflection. Are you sure this is the place to say things like that if you don't have very hard evidence? I think you don't have them, because you keep asking the ministry questions, which clearly means there are still some gaps in your knowledge. On the other hand, to answer your question, would it not be better to give this money to feed the children, I would say this: you were at the committee meeting yesterday and remember the discussion. This project was directed to the subcommittee just to work on it, so that it meets the expectations of all countries, patients' expectations. And I hope that from the subcommittee he will return in such a form that you will all accept him, that this is an important goal for the child who goes to the Polish hospital to be there with his parent. You're also asking about starting companies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a research project. It is also an economic project and it is normal for such an institution to include shares in companies. Please read the project carefully. This is not about setting up new companies that will take care of things, it is about giving them the opportunity to set up companies, also in cooperation with foreign investors. In such a situation, it is normal to include shares or shares. This is normal economic practice, this is how other development institutions work, which function successfully in Poland. And one last question. Mrs Radziszewska asked if it was better to leave this money in the National Health Fund. Dear Member, we have been talking about this since the beginning of our work on this project. This is in our view the idea that long-term return will be made to patients. We are very clear about where the money comes from, what it can be used for, and ensure that the National Health Fund money does not go to purposes other than non-commercial clinical trials. Therefore, in our opinion this is an investment which will ultimately pay off Polish patients. In view of the above, I have exhausted the subject, I have answered the questions and I encourage all of you to support this project, as presented by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Correct, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u131	Please, Mrs Radziszewska, in the procedure of correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u132	The Minister misunderstood what I said. Firstly, if we would like to entrust money to an institution that is already there, then of course the laws should be amended. Don't pretend you don't know that. Secondly, we do not oppose the financing of these non-commercial researches, we just say: yes, of course, but not at the expense of Polish patients. You say that this project is also an economic project, so you will be buying companies and companies, and for further information, it is not known according to what criteria, you will be giving money to companies that already operate. Minister, this is supposed to be a science program, not an economic program. Realize Economy in another way, but not with the money of the NFZ and not with the money that should be transferred to the treatment of patients. You said professionally. We just know that you have professionally solved the problem of dental treatment for children in small towns: 16 dentobuses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's all I'm gonna say because it's a shame and a vulgarity. [[And how did you solve that for eight years? Zero.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Skutecki is yet to be corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u134	Minister, either you completely misunderstood me or you're manipulating me in a very ugly way. I'm absolutely not against research, much less non-commercial research. How can you say that? I'm just showing it, Minister. You mentioned that we don't have that I don't trust those researches that are being conducted today, right? That's exactly what you were talking about. If you buy a book and choose the best book, do you suggest what's written on the cover or an independent review? If you buy a car, do you check what the manufacturer says about it or what the independent tests say? That's what I'm talking about. I want to believe that you are making decisions - you, well, the institutions under your control - allowing any medicine in Poland to be placed on the market with your research. And you don't have those tests. Mostly you don't have them, because you admit that there's only commercial research funded by those who produce it. How can you trust them? How can you trust them completely? That's all I'm talking about, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u135	Thank you very much. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Tadeusz Dziuba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u136	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Speaking on behalf of the committee, I hoped that the establishment of a Medical Research Agency would be supported by all Members of the Health Committee. As we know from the club's speeches, hopes have turned out to be flaming. Therefore, I feel obliged to say three things. Firstly, it is not a coincidence that in civilised countries, institutions of this kind have been set up, which are particularly involved in non-commercial clinical trials. It is not a coincidence that in those countries where such institutions operate, the share of non-commercial research is significant because it represents about 1/3. In this way, institutions such as the Agency for Medical Research in these other countries have a moderate impact on the market for clinical trials and, above all, they are intercepting technical progress by keeping it in a given country. Secondly, it must be made clear that clinical trials are also phase 3 and phase 4 clinical trials. And a phase 3 and a phase 4 clinical trial is nothing else, in short, like treating patients. Clinical trials directly serve the treatment, so that is why the National Health Fund should be used in a fraction of the amount of money. And finally, third thing. Those who are so worried that the National Health Fund will finance an institution that will deal with Polish non-commercial clinical trials, I would advise you to look at the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber about 10 years ago, on the control of hospitals that conducted clinical trials. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this check shows that the National Health Fund is funding, only in a private way, clinical trials commissioned by pharmaceutical companies of course. So I think the solution proposed by the current government is a hundred times better than what we're dealing with today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u137	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position towards the government's draft law on the Agency for Medical Research. During the work to date on this project, it has been repeated on several occasions that currently only 1% Research in Poland is non-commercial research, and companies, which is obvious and understandable and profit-oriented, conduct research in areas that are cost-effective for them. The establishment of an institution which, in carrying out its assigned tasks, will fulfil the current deficit of non-commercial clinical trials is therefore, in my opinion, an extremely valuable initiative. This draft law sets out rules for the functioning of the Agency for Medical Research, the main purpose of which will be to finance research and development projects in the field of medical sciences and health sciences, to provide opinions and expertise in favour of, among others. public administrations and the initiation and development of international cooperation. Solutions included in the project such as e.g. the appointment of the President of the Agency by means of a competition by the Minister for Health, the statutory empowerment of a number of competences which the candidate must have, or the obligation to prepare an annual report on the activities of the Agency, serve in my assessment to maintain the highest standards of its operation. I have no doubt that ABM, as a specialist institution dedicated to supporting and developing medical research in our country, will not only increase its number but will be crucial in disseminating access to the latest medical technologies. And easier access to innovation, better and more effective treatments are invaluable benefits for patients. Therefore, I do not think that there are entirely reasonable reservations raised with regard to the funding of the agency. According to the project, its activities are expected to be financed entirely from the State budget in the first year. In the following years, when the Agency's activities are already in effect, a part of the appropriations of 0,3% the planned revenue due on health insurance contributions will be transferred from the National Health Fund. This is the money that will be returned in the form of benefits to patients. It is also important that, thanks to the work of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, there is an extraordinary increase in expenditure on the health care system, which in 2024 is as high as 6%. GDP. When we talk about financing health care, there will always be a lack of satisfaction, but with every next small step we are closer to the goal and it is in my opinion that we should be positive. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u139	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws, - amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, - to amend the Environmental Law Act. The reports shall be in prints Nos 3242, 3245 and 3230, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on a draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland on legal protection and legal assistance in civil, family and criminal matters, signed in Helsinki on 27 May 1980 (prints Nos 3110 and 3151). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland on Legal Protection and Legal Assistance in Civil, Family and Criminal Matters, signed in Helsinki on 27 May 1980. The Marshal of the Sejm sent this draft law to the joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. What's the project about? High Izbo! These are only two articles. The first is the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to terminate the agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland on legal protection and legal assistance in civil, family and criminal matters signed in Helsinki on 27 May 1980. The project mistakenly says that it's nearly 30 years, and that's nearly 40 years. There were discussions at expert level and representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Finland and Poland. There is, of course, consent to the termination of this agreement by the other party. However, I will recall some facts. The Republic of Finland has been a member of the Council of Europe since 1989 and Poland has been a member of the Council of Europe since 1991. I am talking about this because certain directives on legal protection and legal assistance in civil, family and criminal matters have already excluded many provisions of this agreement. Finland has been a member of the European Union since 1995, Poland, as we know, since 2004. High Izbo! First of all, there are a number of provisions common to all the Member States of the European Union in this respect. These are matters of enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters, enforcement of decisions in matters of parental authority, matters concerning the Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union. Since 2000, there is this convention. Therefore, it can be determined that this agreement is already a dead provision and should be excluded from legal trading. Other things are happening, for example. a European Investigation Order. It was perhaps a question of the application of the procedure, because it is worth knowing that the Constitution of the Polish People's Republic did not provide for the ratification of the international agreement with the prior consent expressed in the Act. We have the rules of the article. 89.91 of the Constitution which governs these matters. High Izbo! On behalf of both committees, I request the support of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u141	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, we take into account the facts that my previous speaker mentioned, i.e. issues such as the fact that almost all the provisions of this bilateral agreement have been replaced by provisions of other treaties or EU law, we take into account this query, the detailed analysis that the Ministry of Justice, the National Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs carried out, which resulted in the conclusion that the agreement has practically ceased to apply, and we take into account the consultations that my predecessor, the previous speaker mentioned, which I might clarify. With the Finnish side they were carried out at expert level 2 years ago and a year ago at the level of the ministries of justice and it was found that this could be withdrawn from legal trading in an appropriate manner. The point was that the party initiating the consultation process in this case was Polish, and therefore we are proceeding on this road. The agreement was concluded 38 years ago, and on 16 October 1981 it entered into force. An important aspect of today's procedure is the fact that this has been done in accordance with Article. 29 of this deal. The Agreement was concluded for a period of 5 years and in accordance with Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The first sentence shall be automatically extended for subsequent five-year periods. The nearest period is 16 October 2021. Therefore, the implementation of this procedure almost a year and a half before that date seems appropriate. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will, of course, vote for this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u143	Thank you. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club in relation to the contested law. We realize we're working on a deal that's already 40 years old. There's no PRL. Poland and Finland are in the European Union, they have adopted Community law, the acquis communautaire. In the meantime, the provisions of other treaties or provisions of EU law have replaced the provisions of this old agreement in practice and we are saying an international agreement that is no longer relevant in practice. Therefore, the Civic Platform - Coalition Club supports the termination of the agreement between Poland and Finland of 27 May 1980. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u145	Thank you. Please, Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern. [[This party's gone. Oh, no, it's still here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, it is simply adapting our legal-treaty base to reality, unifying it with reality within the European Union, therefore there is no controversy here. The Modern Club will vote for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u147	Thank you. Please, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law, like the speech of this speaker, should be brief, understandable and clear. There should be as little law as possible and as much common sense as possible. This law we want to introduce is good. Why? Because it reduces the amount of law, reduces the number of conflicts, reduces the amount of confusion in law. Therefore, in order for the performance to be short, we are in favour of this law being the law, because it reduces the amount of nonsense that we have to read every day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u149	Thank you very much. Please, let's get to the questions. If anybody wants to sign up, come on in. I'll close the list after the first question. The first question will be asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. [[Voice in the room: He's on the phone.]] Are you done talking to me? Time - one and a half minutes. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u150	Contract agreements, but I wish justice was over. Sorry about that quote. My point is that Finland is, however, a Scandinavian country, and we have recently had uninteresting experience in the field of law, you can say, family. It's also about Jugendamty. My question, which concerns the clarification of this family issue, is this: Will our citizens in this area certainly be well supplied? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u152	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The proposal concerns termination of an agreement where all the provisions have become meaningless by replacing them with new cooperation instruments or by not applying them in practice. This concerns the agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland. Minister! My question is: How many countries in Europe do we have such post-peerel agreements that we want to resolve? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We'd have to solve the Polish People's Republic at all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u153	Thank you very much. I ask for the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is short, the questions are short. Out of respect for the High House, I'll try to make my answers short, too. The nature of this project is not controversial. [[Applause]] I will answer Mr Pyzik's question. I think that after this agreement has been repealed, the situation of Polish families, Polish children, as regards everything that relates to mixed relationships, problems that sometimes arise, will be improved, because there will simply be no confusion about what legal regime to apply. It will be a regime resulting from multilateral relations, not from an agreement that, after 40 years, actually causes a lot of confusion, does not bring anything good, which, in fact, sounded in this Chamber. I would also like to add that we are dealing very intensively with matters relating to the care of families and children abroad. As far as Scandinavian systems are concerned, fortunately not all are like the Norwegian system. Therefore, in the case of Finland, there are no problems in this area. After the entry into force of this law, we do not expect any more problems. As for such post-peerel agreements, which remain, I will reply very briefly: we have not identified any other agreements. We haven't identified any agreement in this area we're talking about, unless there's something we're not aware of about legal relations, judicial cooperation, which would have to go through a similar procedure. We consult with the various countries of the European Union on an ongoing basis. None of our partners signal this kind of problem. I think that once this agreement is eliminated, we will have order, at least in the EU area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u155	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the separation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea, signed in Brussels on 19 November 2018 (prints No 3135 and 3168). I ask Mr Dominik Tarczyński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was unanimity at the committee meeting. There was no discussion, no controversy. What's more, everyone voted in favour. [[Even us.]] Even you. And now the total opposition is doing a conference, screaming that it doesn't agree. I don't know what's in their heads. I don't know why they vote like that. They didn't have any discussion, they didn't ask any questions. They vote in support of the project, which is de facto the fulfilment of European law, about the agreement signed in November 2018, and now they are doing a media show, saying that they are fighting for Poland. The truth is that during all the years of their reign Poland did not have these areas. Now we've got 20%. and it will actually be possible to extract raw materials. They voted in favour, and now they're protesting that something's wrong. I repeat, this is the completion of the signed agreement. I'm glad there was no controversy, that there was unanimity. Of course, you have to mean this and remember that in the interest of Germany, Nord Stream is that such laws do not enter into force. Another example of such behavior is protests about the excavation. This is another stage in the preservation of total opposition, which is in the interests of Moscow and Berlin. Those are the facts, and that translates into money. Fortunately, law and justice rule. Of course, we will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u157	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Gosiewska, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Neither law nor justice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Tarczyński has gone ahead of what I wanted to say... [[I'm sorry.]] ...that the Law and Justice Club, of course, fully supports the bill submitted. The agreement we are discussing today is really resolving the dispute with Denmark since the 1970s, resulting in further improvement of bilateral relations. Such disputes, ladies and gentlemen, must be resolved through negotiations in accordance with applicable international law, and this agreement is precisely the way. The Polish-Danish area is the last maritime area in which no binding international agreement has been concluded to date. Once this agreement is concluded, the entire external course of the Polish exclusive economic zone will be determined in binding international law and agreements. The opposition, as Mr Tarczyński has already said, raises surprisingly the fact that the agreement leads to a reduction of the Polish exclusive economic zone. [[Where we had nothing at all.]] It's amazing that she didn't make that argument at the committee meeting. There were probably three ministers at that meeting. They've justified it. I don't recall any questions or discussions. We adopted this project in two committees unanimously. So what is today's questioning of the terms of the agreement? Maybe it's about the Baltic Pipe project, which is our safety and possible delay of the project. Dear opposition, I would like to remind you that due to the contentious nature of the grey zone, Poland could not exercise its powers in it, and, on the other hand, thanks to this agreement, we will be able to exercise our rights freely in the latter part of the so-called. the grey zone, which will remain exclusively available to Poland, [[Applause]] as far as the economic zone is concerned. Although the spatial scope of this Polish exclusive economic zone will be smaller, it will increase the legal certainty and predictability associated with the possibility for Poland and Polish entities to use it. And another important thing I mentioned, Baltic Pipe's investment. The absence of this agreement is the need to obtain a number of permits, approvals which are a prerequisite for carrying out this investment. The route of the submarine pipeline is crossing the regulated area of the draft contract that we are talking about today, the so-called area. The gray zone. This agreement is important, for example, because of the state's energy security, which I wanted to emphasise with all my might. That's why the Law and Justice Club supports [[♪ The bell ♪]] draft legislation and will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club regarding the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the separation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea. It is an important law and concerns the Polish state's right, there is no controversy here. For the first time after 1989, in free Poland, the Polish government is proposing a law which will lead to the reduction of the Polish exclusive economic zone in the Baltic Sea. [[And how much was that area in your day?]] At the committee meeting, we didn't get a convincing answer... [[Voice from the room: 'Cause you didn't ask.]] [[They didn't ask at all.]] ...in the name of what benefits Poland renounces up to 80% the area we've claimed our rights to so far... [[That was not the question, sir. That was not the question.]] ...by virtue of the 1977 Act as a Polish exclusive economic zone. This is, as is apparent from the justification to the law, for about 40 years the disputed area with Denmark, the so-called. A gray area, an area of 3,600 km2 between the area south of Bornholm... [[And what did we get out of it? What were the benefits of this?]] ...and north of the Polish coast. Therefore, in the name of what interests and in accordance with the Polish reason of the state we will keep rights only up to 20% of this area, i.e. To 720 km2? This is not due to the length of the southern coast of Bornholm compared to the length of the Polish coast of the Baltic, or small. At committee meetings and here we get a hint: the link with the next agreement between Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark, signed in December 2018, one month later, i.e. one month after the cooperation on the Baltic Pipe project, the process of dividing the grey zone in the Baltic Sea, as well as the permits for the pipeline route. Perhaps from here such haste after 40 years and adverse division. [[Or do you not want this pipeline? Say it openly. Say it openly.]] If there's a connection...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u161	No, but wait. Please do not disturb the Member's speech. Sign up for questions. They'll be here any minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u162	...this is an example of a negotiation failure under the rule of PiS and Foreign Minister Jack Chaputowicz... [[Who's talking?]] ...which diplomacy is under pressure from our EU partner Denmark and allows for such a negative division of Denmark, in which, as well as Poland, it is in the interest of the gas pipeline because of its ability to ensure energy security and its ability to reverse gas into Denmark in the future. No responsible politician, representative of voters in parliament, can vote for Poland's resignation from the exclusive economic zone in the proportion of 20 to 80 to the detriment of Poland. Therefore, the Civic Platform - Coalition Club will not support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And why did you vote for the committee?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u163	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz.15. Now, Mr. Tarczynski...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u164	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[What have you done for eight years?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u165	One second, sir. Mr Tarczyński, would you please stop screaming? [[I can't listen to such stupid things.]] Then get out of the room if you can't, and walk around the Sejm, then maybe you'll cool off. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u166	I see some people have an atmosphere like we're invading Bornholm. [[There'd be time.]] My dear Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour and special pleasure to present the position of the Kukiz club15. And here I will address Mr. Shieldinski. No: even you voted on the committee, but we were the forerunners in bringing attention in this term of office to this problem and to the rapid need to resolve it. My speech relates, of course, to prints 3135 and 3168. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement concluded in November 2018 comes out as a result of which I concluded in January 2016 on behalf of the Kukiz club15 in the interpellation. I have undoubtedly pointed out that the situation of non-regulating the border in the so-called. The exclusive economic zone with the Kingdom of Denmark, between Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark, may constitute an important obstacle, inter alia. in the field of energy security of Poland. The fact that this dispute lasted 40 years, of course, is not good news. That he ended or ended, because we are in the process of ratifying the so-called. big, this is very good information. Nevertheless, please also pay attention to certain negative aspects. I would like to thank two ministers, both Minister Waszczykowski and Minister Chaputowicz, without a doubt. I listened, although only video recording, to the committee's deliberations and very rightly stressed the importance of this international agreement by Minister Naimski, and this must be agreed. When it comes to the substance of this agreement, whether we have 20% and we don't have 80%, yes, it's a fact. But for 40 years in the gray area, or the disputed area, we could not perform completely any tasks or have any aspects related to what the so-called one gives us. The 1982 Montego Bay Convention on the Law of the Sea So it is better to have 20% and exercise full, sovereign rights than to have nothing, and basically in a bilateral, bilateral arrangement to keep asking for any consent. [[It was zero. There was nothing in your day.]] And that's why it's absolutely positive. Ladies and gentlemen, of course not directly, but it affects the improvement of Polish-Danish relations, although they are still very good, and therefore they can only be even better. I am impressed that the Civic Platform is suddenly undermining one of the most fundamental changes. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the disputed territory, we are not dealing with the possibility of losing our territory, but with the possibility of delimitation, and most of the delimitation in the Baltic Sea, as this is a special, small sea, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's so-called. the median limit. Therefore, this is a reasonably reasonable division. Of course, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u167	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, our discussions are being listened to by the residents of the city and the municipality of Wasilków from the Podlaskie Voivodeship. Welcome. [[Applause]] Please, now Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern. [[No, of course not.]] [[And now we're gonna surprise...]] [[So modern against.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not from now on we know that the state is composed according to George Jellink, an outstanding German lawyer, three elements that must be performed together so that the state can be talked about the construction at all. They include power, territory and population. At the same time, the authorities were considered to be the most important of them, because it is exercised in the territory in question and over the inhabitants of that territory. However, it is the second element - this territory - that has been the subject of disputes between states and, given the current geopolitical situation, is still there. Therefore, it is an extremely important part of foreign policy to regulate the issues at issue with countries which claim to have rights to specific areas or water reservoirs. This is what happened in the case of the Grey Zone near Bornholma, and the result of the talks is an international agreement signed on 19 November 2018 in Brussels between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark, which resulted in the dispute over the area ending, as we derive from the very definition of the agreement that it is a mutually agreed declaration of the will of the two parties. As a result of this agreement, Poland will reach about 715 km2 of the area of the grey zone, which is about 20% of the area in question. This agreement allows us to distinguish interests and agree on the status of this zone, because according to national laws and Poland, and Denmark would have jurisdiction over this area. Now, after the conclusion and ratification of this agreement, we will be able to fully exercise Poland's rights as a party to the Montego Bay Convention on the Law of the Sea, i.e. We will have a sovereign right to explore, exploit and protect natural resources, jurisdiction to build and create artificial islands and other bottom research facilities on our side of the drainage line. In addition, given the geopolitical situation of Poland, recent events with our participation in the international arena, every attempt to warm our image and, as a result, confirmation of willingness to cooperate globally will help us regain the status of a reliable partner. In this case, too, we cannot hide the fact that this will put an end to a nearly 40-year dispute between our countries and we will thus strengthen our good relations with the Kingdom of Denmark. After all, we are neighbours in the Baltic and we should remain in the best relationship possible. One of the most important effects of agreeing to ratify this agreement will also be the fact that we will have full legal certainty about a particular Baltic area, which will translate into the possibility of making specific investments without compromising anyone's rights or interests. The only thing that bothers us is actually getting up and negotiating 8:80. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u169	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If anyone wants to sign up yet, come on in. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the subject is extremely important. So long-lasting disputes make it impossible to decide what can be done, what cannot be done, and what cannot be done, must be agreed upon. It is of course a good thing that Poland strives to resolve disputes, but it is necessary, Minister, to ask a question, because this score 20:80 sounds a little like 27:1, to the detriment of Poland. [[War.]] Therefore, Minister, I would ask that you try here at least to explain to the citizens why the division is so uneven. On the one hand, there are 20% which concern Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark concerns 80% This area. I think there should be a specific explanation here. On the other hand, Mr, if we are talking about the possibility of asking questions, yes, but in that case I would very much ask that the Sejm not convene meetings of the Sejm, committees, teams and bilateral groups at one time, because under such conditions it is simply impossible to function normally. This is, of course, an accusation addressed not directly to the Member, but to the management of the club. But the situation must also be taken into account that Members must ask questions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the Ministry must provide explanations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But your parliamentarians were present at the committee meeting and did not ask questions.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u171	Thank you. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u172	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased that the project, which concerns the change in the spatial scope of Polish maritime areas relating to the Polish exclusive economic zone, is being conducted in the Polish parliament. My question is: Will Poland be able to extract raw materials in the areas it will obtain through this law? Will this law affect Poland's energy security?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. Mr. Speaker! Since there has been a discussion here and so many questions, various objections have been raised, please remind me what the discussion at the committee meeting looked like. Were there any questions, or were they addressed to the Minister? What was said was the answer, and is it true that the dispute with the Kingdom of Denmark in this area lasted 40 years, and after these 40 years today we are in such a situation that such an important agreement will be signed, which is important for both countries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u175	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I was asked by my colleague Mr Suchon. I will ask a question because I feel something that in the coming days we will have a powerful information fight, that the current government has sold Poland, reduced territory, etc. Question one: Is the territory of our republic shrinking because of this agreement? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Second question: Do we have enough canonies to clean up with these Danes? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The third question, how do I feel, the most important: Is it because we have sold part of our territory so badly that Denmark is a monarchy? Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u177	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u178	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer the questions one at a time, but I think that the questions that Mr Obrycki put will also be the answer to some of the questions that came later. One at a time. If we are talking about reducing the area, we are not talking about reducing the area of the Polish state, because the exclusive economic zone is not part of the territory of the country. If we're talking about dividing 80:20, then we have to get on the legal track because from this point on, it starts - I'm sorry - my kind of lecture of a legal nature. The median, i.e. this distance line between Bornholm and the Polish coast, is the basic line adopted in the case law of international courts, in international case law and in international law as a dividing line between such areas as disputed areas. In the case of several countries, we had such judgments, e.g.: Denmark - Norway, Nicaragua - Colombia, but also Libya - Malta. In each of these disputes, the basis used first as a temporary measure known to us from other forums, and then in the final decision was always a median line without leaving, i.e. without division. Like us, unlike what we've negotiated. Secondly, in the case of the Baltic we had three situations, along with our similar nature. We had the issue of Sweden and the issue of Germany in relation to relations with Denmark, taking into account the particular situation of Bornholm. Now, unfortunately, I have to quote a few numbers. It is usually the case that this circumstance may be taken into account, with an emphasis on possibly, when making deviations from the median line is the so-called. the proportion of the length of the coast, i.e. in our case - the Polish coast and the Bornholm coast. In this case, which I have mentioned, Norway and Denmark, which is also the Baltic Sea, this proportion of the length of the coast was 9.2 to 1. In our case, in the case of Poland - 5.1. Similar distances, 8 or 8,2, 8,1, in the other cases I mentioned. On the other hand, if we consider that the derogations negotiated by Germany and Sweden were in the order of several percent with a much larger difference in the length of the coast, I stress this, almost twice as much as in the case of Poland and Denmark... We negotiated, even though we had a much worse ratio, several times greater derogations. From this point of view, I stress this, one can say that this is a huge negotiation success, a huge achievement, unprecedented in international relations. Therefore, This is undoubtedly the success of our diplomacy, aside from the fact - it also appeared in Members' speeches - that we are ending a 40-year dispute in the Baltic Sea. We end it with the greatest success that has been negotiated in international relations in these matters. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Secondly, if we are talking about the relationship between this agreement and the Baltic Pipe project, let us remember that the Balitc Pipe project is run by other people, it has a different substance. We negotiated, having regard solely to international law and interests of the Republic of Poland or, as anyone prefers, interests of the Republic and international law. For us, these were the basic determinants that determined the negotiations on this issue, and none of the other determinants were applicable here. I say this as the person who participated in these negotiations. Third, raw materials. The Member asked about the possibility of extracting raw materials, but I will add one more element, the issue of fishing. In the exclusive economic zone, regardless of what country it is, because we are in the European Union, this fisheries agreement does not change the situation of our fishermen, because in this case we are using the common fisheries policy. In the case of raw materials, however, two elements need to be taken into account. Above all, in this area That's why we don't know what's underneath. Just because there was this dispute, we couldn't do the research. Now, on the other hand, in this part of the grey zone, which will be at our sole disposal, we will be able to carry out such research and possibly make full use of these raw materials. To answer Mr Dlugi's question, I will say that the territory of the State is not shrinking. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[It's getting bigger.]] To answer the second question, about the number of canons, I don't feel competent. I don't think it would be a good idea for the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs to speak on military issues. [[Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] The third element. With regard to Denmark, this is, let us remind you, our partner in the European Union, this is a country with which we have very good relations, this is a country with which, thanks to Minister Chaputowicz, because we were able to negotiate this agreement, we have ended the many-year dispute, thus ending the last such dispute in the Baltic Sea. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u179	Thank you very much, Minister. In the procedure of correcting Mr Suchoń. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Long understood absolutely nothing of my question, which is why he was polite here such phillips... [[If there's an incomprehensible question, I don't understand.]] You see, Mr President, fortunately, the Minister understood my question and explained those issues that raised Members' doubts. That's what the High House is for, to explain these doubts. And if the Member does not tolerate questioning... [[I'm even encouraging you.]] ...then you just have to focus on work, I'd say, substantive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u181	Thank you. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Dominik Tarczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u182	It is worth noting how many Members of the Platform are now in the Chamber. I don't see any. [[What do you mean? That's what you have to watch.]] One? Oh, yeah, two. That's about the percentage of you at the committee meeting. At the committee meeting, you voted in favour. This is the answer to your question. There are complaints that there are meetings at the same time. That is not true, Mr Suchoń, because your representatives were at the committee meeting, but they did not know what was at all mentioned. And when they found out, they realized something might be wrong. Hence this press conference where they give fake news, false information. Of course, what we might have heard from the Minister will never be heard again. They're having a conference, they're having events, and they're not really talking about 80%. The truth is, there wasn't 20% during the Platform's reign, because it was 0%. And now it's 20%. and Poland has a regulated situation thanks to our government. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But we don't have cannons.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u183	Mr Obricki. Mr President, I am the only one who has to explain again: it is not about whether your name has been mentioned, it is about whether someone misunderstood your statement. If that's what happened, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u184	Thank you, Marshal. I did not use the wording that the territory of Poland is shrinking. I spoke very clearly about the area of the exclusive economic zone to which we claimed rights as well as the Danes. And since the Danes claimed their rights and it was a dispute zone, Minister, I understand that the Danes could not exercise their full rights either or could not exercise their rights in this disputed zone at all. If this is the case and the median is what divides the economic zone between countries according to international law, taking this law literally, then we should actually give the whole zone back and yet something has been negotiated, which might as well be negotiated more. And that's what we're talking about. The 20 to 80 division is connected to something. That's why it's speeding up. What project? We didn't get an answer to that. We believe that if this is related to energy infrastructure projects, it did not have to be in such proportions, because it is in the interest of Poland and Denmark. We will support energy projects to ensure the safety of Poland, especially as they are a continuation of our investment, which we have implemented - LNG terminal in Świnoujście. That's why... [[What?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u185	Mr President, I would like you to leave now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u186	...I wanted to correct what was misunderstood by the Minister. Thank you for explaining. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u187	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 14 hours 13 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws (Prints Nos 3199 and 3241). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Czech to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u188	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Health Committee the report of this committee on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws, print No 3199. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, sent the above draft law to the Health Commission for first reading on 11 February 2019. The Health Commission held its first reading on 20 February - a comprehensive discussion on this law. The Act deals with a number of important health issues, such as improving the organisation of inspections carried out by the NFZ, covered very widely and in detail, organisational changes concerning night and Christmas aid and the principles of securing this assistance, the introduction of harmonised medical segregation for all entities, as well as amendments to the Act on State Medical Rescue, which include the introduction of a mechanism to ensure the rationalisation of human resources, but also others, as well as many other important problems. Five substantive amendments and 10 legislative amendments were introduced by the committee during and as a result of the discussion. The substantive amendments concerned the improvement of the implementation of scientific research by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification by including these studies as a statutory task. This will improve the work and improve the work, the agency will not have to sign further agreements with the Ministry of Health. With regard to the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, the amendment consisted in increasing the limits on the remuneration costs of the Agency's staff. The following amounts have been mentioned. Increasing these limits is essential for the proper performance of the Agency's tasks, as experience so far shows that these tasks generate high costs as high-quality experts need to be involved. It excluded from the cap on remuneration costs received in the framework of projects co-financed by EU funds and other projects. The next substantive amendment was to supplement the regulation on the management system for SOR patients, the processing of personal data. There was a need to supplement the rules because of the need to protect against abuse or unlawful access to data or the transfer of personal data. Another amendment also concerned the processing of personal data of recipients in order to account for the cost of reimbursement of medicines. It was about the National Health Fund. The Health Committee, after detailed examination and after voting on these amendments, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u189	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u190	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. The National Health Fund will finance this year the purchase of benefits and medicines for millions of Poles for over PLN 80 billion. This is the second largest stream of money that goes to society through state authorities after social benefits. Taking such a high level of responsibility, the National Health Fund must be sure that these funds are spent in an efficient and rational manner. In view of the above, the Minister for Health has prepared a draft law whose main objective is to improve the effectiveness of the checks carried out by the National Health Fund. More than 2 000 of them are carried out each year as part of the Fund's activities. The proposed solutions should allow the desired results to be achieved through a two-track approach. Firstly, control will become more effective, among others. thanks to the centralization of all control cells, which are today scattered in 16 voivodships, as well as through the creation of a professional control corps, to which the best and carefully selected employees will reach. The higher requirements imposed on controllers will also allow them to be given additional responsibility for self-control and post-control. The best practices already applied by the National Tax Administration and the Social Insurance Institution have been used in strengthening the control institution. The reinforcement of the fund's control units will be combined with the implementation of the National Health Fund's previously absent activities in practice, such as the prohibition of simultaneous control by the Minister and the Fund, the prohibition of re-control of the same scope, the limit of working days during which control may be carried out in a given calendar year, and the notifications of checks transmitted seven days in advance. In addition, there will be an obligation to document in the form of photographs or recordings of irregularities which have been found in the course of an inspection. In order to reduce the costs incurred by providers and the fund, the exchange of documents will take place in electronic form. It is worth noting that the last two solutions are a novelty in the state control institutions and that if they meet their hopes, they should be introduced in other administrative departments. The principle pursued by the project developers was to enable efficient and consistent action towards the strong and understanding of the smaller ones. This is reflected in the introduction of the threshold of triviality. Penalties below 500 PLN will not be investigated by a fund whose control services will focus on major incidents and expose the payer to real losses. In addition to changes in control, the Act introduces solutions to improve patients' access to emergency benefits. National hospitals, which have an SOR or an emergency room, will be able to provide night and Christmas medical care after the application has been submitted. At the same time, the SOR activities will be improved by introducing uniform national rules on medical segregation. This will be complemented by the implementation of the patient care system financed by the Minister of Health, which includes: will show the expected waiting time for assistance. The project also includes a major change for hundreds of hospitals that are currently online. As a basis for the calculation of the lump sum, the entire period of 2018 will be considered, and not only its second half, which is a more favourable solution for most individuals, as the second half of the year consists of two months of holidays and a December holiday break. High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I recommend that the Sejm adopt a draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u191	Thank you very much. Now Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club to present a position on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. As the name suggests, the project contains changes that are in a number of changes relevant to the healthcare system. It concerns changes in the scope of as many as six laws: the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds, the Act on Pharmacy Chambers, the Law on Pharmaceutical Law, the Act on State Medical Rescue, the Act on the disclosure of documents of safety authorities, the Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. This is a very wide range of changes, which is why as members of our club we tried to ask for a subcommittee to deal with such broad legislation. We also tried to propose a change in the procession to move certain laws to a separate procession. We didn't get approval for this. Therefore, in this huge range of changes practically 4/5 concerns the creation of an inspection corps by the President of the National Health Fund. This means that we are back to centralization, because the auditors have also carried out these checks since the start of the health fund in the voivodship branches of the fund. Centralisation brings about a return to top-down management and liquidation of these departments. The employees of the voivodship branches who were in charge of control will be directly subject to the President of the National Health Fund by virtue of the law for the next two years. The auditors who want to continue this function will have to take their exams after 2 years. However, this applies only to those who are head office employees, and therefore new people who wish to enter the competition will not have the opportunity. In addition, auditors will also assess the quality of medical services. There is no requirement among controllers that these are persons who have medical education, therefore it is necessary to call into question the quality of medical services by controllers who do not have medical education. The duration of the check shall be limited for each establishment within a single 12-month calendar dimension. The bill states that this check will not be duplicated, but we know perfectly well that the Minister of Health at any time, at any stage of the procedure can go to medical entities with personal control, so this possibility of duplication will unfortunately exist. There is also no provision in this Act concerning the costs to be incurred in the performance of the functions of controllers. We do not know whether the costs associated with the establishment of this corps will translate into a reduction in the amount of funding for medicinal activities. I think it's just one of the elements. Another element of the amendment of these laws is the introduction of the possibility of providing night and Christmas assistance by national state hospitals. We are returning to this pier that was already in operation in the 1960s and 1970s. in health care, where within a single large health establishment all operators were actually active. I think that the possibility of introducing this night and Christmas care is intended not only to improve the quality of the services provided by doctors, but also to relieve the burden of emergency rooms and hospital units burdened by excess patients and queues. Therefore, there is no care about the quality of the benefits, the aim is to shorten the queues in reception rooms and SORs. Of course, there are provisions in the Act relating to the SORs, which we support and support during the work in committee. They talk about patient handling, so-called. TOPSOR, medical segregation and how patients in the SOR will expect medical benefits. Five categories of waiting time are introduced: from immediate to very shortened. There is also a provision in the Act concerning the extension of the definition of a medical emergency medicine, since by 2020 we were to be treated only by doctors of this system. There are also sharp and out of focus on duty. We were also talking about the validity of these records and we were in favour of some of these changes, but because [[♪ The bell ♪]] they are so broad and inconsistent, and we support only some of them. As a number of these records cause chaos in the bill, we will abstain from voting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u194	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill can be divided into two parts. The first part concerns the creation of a corps of controllers, and the second part concerns changes in the system of State Medical Rescue. As far as the first part is concerned, you can't say it's good. In the assessment of the impact of the regulation accompanying the project, we see that the control performance is very low. When we entrust - we, all taxpayers - NFZ funds, we expect that these funds which the NFZ manages by transferring them to the public health system will be controlled. Therefore, the actions that aim to increase control efficiency, I consider as good. With regard to these activities, the Ministry shows two things in its arguments behind the Act. First of all, we are going in a direction that Kukiz will continue to support, i.e. in the direction of computerization. It will enable us, as an overseer of public money, to have a fuller insight into many things. It will also provide transparency and simplify many issues. That is why all the activities that are aimed at the introduction of a widely understood digitalisation system, computerisation, are supported by us. The assessment of the Sejm Analysis Office shows that the project is not criticised. Sejm analysts see it as a project that deserves full attention and support. The most important things relating to the appointment of a control corps, which is introduced by this law, are: the transfer of powers to the level of the President, the harmonisation of control procedures for all control entities, the special regulation of the control process, i.e. the duration of its duration. Very important for control units is that the control will not be able to last forever, it will not be able to duplicate. The audit findings are also limited to the post-control finding. The very important thing is that you can't focus on the so-called. trivial matters. Controllers will refer to matters of importance. In my opinion, these are really good solutions. My doubts are that if the corps is created and we demand that the controlling ones be like Caesar's wife - beyond all suspicions - they should earn very well. Maybe not everyone will agree with me, but I believe that higher wages in some part guarantee that people become vulnerable to corruption. That's why I'm very curious about the specific figures, how much the controllers are going to make. I think - maybe it won't be a popular opinion - that they should earn very well. As far as the second part of the bill is concerned, it proposes solutions that do not cause much controversy. Everyone comes to him with a very positive attitude. The proposed changes concern the system of State Medical Rescue. The aim is to adapt the organizational rules to the problems of human health professionals. These personnel problems aren't just medical rescue. The entire system of Polish health protection has at the moment a huge, growing problem, which is staff shortages. Now I'm gonna run away from the subject a little bit, but we're after a sub-group meeting where the issue of rheumatology specialists was discussed. The data we received is simply dramatic. Aging - unfortunately we are all getting old - specialists in areas such as rheumatology and lack of inflow of new staff [[♪ The bell ♪]] Medically, in five years, six years, we may not have any specialists to treat the sick. And this is at the moment the biggest challenge for people dealing with the health system - what to do to make there are more doctors in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the committee's report on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. High Seym! Today we are witnessing the fact that this is the name, the release of health laws, in general specifying which, as we read in the justifications prepared by the government, will improve the system as soon as they are introduced, ensure full availability, generally improve the functioning of the healthcare system. That's the reason. An hour ago, we discussed the law establishing the Agency for Medical Research, and now we have a mixing law, so to speak, in the system of the National Health Fund, which provides for the creation of a corps of controllers at the National Health Fund headquarters. And I'm really not able to, we're not able to understand this mechanics of the thinking of the rulers, that only centrally, that only from Warsaw, that only by subjugating, improving, improving. With this type of programming thinking and we definitely disagree. And this is not only about this law or this example, but at all about a principle of the functioning of the state. I remain on the subject of creating a corps of controllers. You state in the explanatory memorandum that the number of contracts with recipients is around 35 thousand. and that the number of inspections carried out is less than 2 000. and that, therefore, the number of checks currently carried out makes it impossible to check whether the implementation of the contract is possible every 18 years. Well, and this is an argument that, according to the government, the need to increase the effectiveness of control by pionising it. And the second phenomenon, which is also strongly defined in the explanatory memorandum, is the issue of fluctuation, stability of control personnel. The problem also noted in the explanatory memorandum is the long-term follow-up procedures related to the need to overcome long-term and complex control procedures. That's exactly what I prescribed for the reasons. In our view, this is a phenomenon that I have presented here, and which has been revealed in the explanatory statement, this state of affairs, if noticed, are identified, it does not need to be reorganized to eliminate them, and it is revolutionary, because if they are complicated, if they are identified, can not be improved without centralization? What's in the way of human resources fluctuating and a shortage of controllers? With this verticalization, we're supposed to make it better? I strongly doubt that, but rather predict a huge increase in indirect costs, without improving efficiency and efficiency, unfortunately, I can add here. The arguments for the absence of a uniform control regime for all controlled entities are already completely curious, as this is otherwise governed by the Act on the provision of public-funded health care, otherwise by the Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. It really doesn't need central control for that. The idea of changing the position of controllers is really controversial and at least raises great doubts, because in our opinion nothing will improve, nothing will solve anything. It's just been in Poland. We've been through this before. We find here, so we estimate, a quite rational approach, also described in this law, to changes in the functioning of the basic system of hospital care provision. In general, it is good that an analysis is being carried out and this, you can say, quite quickly, because a year has passed and some adjustments are proposed, but because it is all in one law, we are unfortunately not entirely able to support the proposed solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government proposal for a law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws that we are discussing today is extremely important for the whole health system. On the one hand, it is intended to harmonise the control processes in all medical facilities, on the other hand, it should ensure the full transparency of this process, leaving no room for a diverse interpretation of the control provisions. The Ministry plans to achieve this objective primarily by setting up an audit corps directly subordinate to the President National Health Fund. This will certainly help to unify standards, but there are doubts at the stage of appealing from post-control. In the current legal situation, the appeal was made to the authority over which the control was ordered. The proposed change in the project assumes a total omission in the entire process of the directors of the NFZ voivodship branches. Therefore, the audited entity will only be able to appeal to the entity which ordered the audit. That's absurd. Another issue that raises doubts among many experts is the scope of the powers of controllers who, in accordance with the provisions of the project, will have the right to move freely throughout the area of the controlled unit. This creates problems of the sanitary and epidemiological nature. So the question arises: Is such a provision really necessary? In addition, the auditors according to the original plans were to have full access to financial and accounting data, which do not have to apply in full to the implementation of the budget allocated under the contract with the NFZ. In this respect, however, the public consultation has played a very important role, as a result of which this harmful provision has been modified. I would also like to point out that the authors of the project have not determined the maximum frequency with which the NFZ can control any facility. My doubts are also raised by the wide competence of the auditors to assess medical records. Modern medicine is highly specialised and even a person with medical education, but with a different specialization than presented for evaluation, may not have the necessary knowledge to formulate correct conclusions. Finally, I have adopted provisions on the possibility of using electronic means of communication throughout the process with satisfaction. The exchange of information between the control unit and the control authority will be more efficient, which will also allow for faster implementation of the recommended changes. Electronicisation is also foreseen in the hospital emergency services in which TOPSOR is to be implemented. This is certainly a necessary solution, as many hospital emergency services do not use initial medical segregation of patients, according to the checks carried out so far. Triage should be a good way to shorten the SOR queues. Ladies and gentlemen! Modern support the introduction of transparency and a level playing field for all actors. However, there are still a few aspects that raise our doubts in the Act, although we discussed this at the Health Committee meeting for a long time yesterday. Modern, considering this proposal, will abstain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u199	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Margaret Mirror, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The aim of this project is to thoroughly reform the functioning of the National Health Fund's control services, improve the availability and quality of night and Christmas healthcare services and improve the performance of SORs. I have no doubt that the solutions proposed in this revision are needed and will not only serve to speed up and improve the effectiveness of the monitoring of the implementation of contracts with the National Health Fund, as envisaged replacement of the traditional paper circulation of electronic circulation documents, but will also be a useful change for checked medicinal entities. The centralisation of control services, the creation of a control corps under the President of the National Health Fund and the precise definition of the rules for carrying out checks, drawing up minutes and the occurrence of follow-up are good solutions in my opinion, which will harmonise the whole system and eliminate cases where different voivodships apply different assessments in the same situations. Although there is no requirement for the audit staff to have medical education, I trust that the other restrictions on the qualifications of these staff included in the novel, among others. the need to pass a specialized exam, ensure that they are persons with adequate knowledge and experience. An important change proposed in the project is also the introduction of a threshold of triviality, which in the first year of the Act's operation will amount to PLN 500 below which financial penalties will not be imposed. According to data for the quarter of 2018 penalties of this amount were imposed in 50% cases, however, accounted for less than 10% the amounts of penalties imposed. With this in mind, I agree with the opinion that the work put in place in imposing and enforcing a penalty of this amount can be used more effectively in other cases. In addition to the reform arrangements for the NFZ control system, there are also a number of changes in the provision of night and Christmas health services. Among them is to enable such benefits to be provided to national hospitals if they have a hospital emergency room or a hospital emergency department, to introduce uniform rules for the medical segregation of patients in SORs, to create an IT system to improve the operation of hospital emergency units, providing easy access to information about the expected waiting time for patients, and to introduce the functioning of sharp and dull on-calls. I have no doubt that these are solutions aimed at relieving hospital emergency services, improving their work, but above all improving the quality of services provided in these departments. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the proposed solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u201	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Szczerba begins if he is, and I can't see. Mrs Alicia Chybick. [[Mrs. Chybick isn't here either.]] Mrs. Chybick isn't here either. Mrs. Elizabeth Gelert.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two questions relating to this law. First question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 4 (5) is noted that medical emergency teams do not transport persons in a health emergency to a specialised unit. Is that supposed to mean that... Because it may have been possible so far if the dispatcher's consent had been obtained. Then will this rigid record be in force and not be able to transport these patients? That's one thing. Next, the second question concerns the creation of night and Christmas aid by nationwide hospitals. If it is possible to create, do you therefore also provide for the possibility of leaving this mandatory system for other hospitals? Because if two or three additional places are created in the same population, how are you going to divide that money? The money's the same, and so far, it's just a division by capitulation. And a general question. When I was sitting in the room today, I heard about the Łukasiewicz Research Network, we were talking about the Medical Research Agency, now about the control corps. So as a result, we're all going to centralize, centralize, and centralize again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u203	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u204	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! There is already a custom that, when it comes to statutory changes, especially in health care, when something good is written down, there is still a need to make changes that are difficult to accept. With regard to the issues of acute and dull on-calls and changes in medical rescue, this is generally largely the correction of the wrong law called the Hospital Network Act and is largely subject to acceptance. On the other hand, is centralization necessary, the creation of a new control body? One of the arguments behind this is the failure of the current control services, that it is likely that no more than once every several years could be controlled by any entity in the country. Ladies and gentlemen! If we create clear, clear rules, then it is not necessary to run controllers, to create a new corps, because with good information flow at least once a month, if not every day, the National Health Fund knows exactly what happens on a given day in a medical facility, among others. through computerization and data flow. Therefore, my question is: What are the costs, and who invented this body? Is this an initiative of the National Health Fund or a political decision of the Ministry of Health? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because I'll give you two sentences, Mr. Marshal, that I'm after a six-month inspection of the National Health Fund, and I can't say that the controlling people haven't proven themselves competent, so that the creation of new structures is just to say that we have central control and we're going to pass the exam, and it really doesn't serve anybody -- neither the witness nor the patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I do not want to repeat that the pace of work on this law and the variety of subjects in this law raised our doubts. We agreed on some issues, and we absolutely did not agree on others. Of course, the biggest problem is with the corps, which also sounds here in the courtroom. First of all, it's a matter of centralization. I understand that this is your direction. We don't agree on that principle, so there's already a discrepancy here. But it's number two. You said, Minister, that the body is, among other things. to improve the quality of services provided. So I have a question: why do you start with the control of these healthcare providers? Why are we once again inventing an organ that will only and strictly check that everything in these establishments is as it should be? And why don't we start with quality - with the Health Quality Act? This country you said at the beginning, when you took over the helm of power, that quality would become the most important element and that there would be a quality law that would actually be an interpretation of everything where the standards would be described, and also on this basis we could discuss compliance with these standards and control. And you're starting from the end. Another control element, another supervision of the provider. Is this the way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is supposed to make the services provided better? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Wasilewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u208	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The applicant claims that the establishment of the audit corps will allow the professionalisation of the control process and can provide significant benefits to the fund. So I ask: What are the benefits? And second question: Will the resources for the creation of the inspection corps increase the administrative expenditure of the National Health Fund? If so, is it left? Is this already planned in the fund budget? What measures are planned for 2019 and beyond? I think that analysis was done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u210	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The essence of this project is the creation of a professional body of control of the National Health Fund. Undoubtedly, the model of control used by the Supreme Audit Chamber was a model. I would like to ask the Minister to remind him what guarantees of objectivity of this new form of control the NFZ provides for new rules and what guarantees of rationality are provided for in these new rules. It's worth mentioning from this bleacher. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Hok.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u212	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have also asked many questions during the work of the committee, but I have another question for the Minister. The health system is generally falling apart. The Hospital Network Act is another bubble that turns out to be completely inefficient in life. In the beginning, this record spoke of the need to operate in hospitals that are online, hospital emergency rooms. The next step was to add Poz, i.e. night and Christmas help. It is clear from the records that you have prepared and the segregation that you need at the SORs that this night and Christmas aid is meant to relieve the emergency room to relieve hospital emergency services. A record that says that a patient who will wait longer, who does not expect this direct medical assistance that can wait, can be redirected to the night and Christmas help within the POZ. It seems that we should be dealing with the comprehensive repair of hospitals and SORs, not patching up those holes that are coming out more and more when implementing the hospital network law, which has failed. No doctors, no nurses, no paramedics, no paramedics. It's all falling apart. Minister, we need to fix the basic things that result from this. It's about medical personnel, medical training and a network of hospitals. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u213	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: through control, through this centralisation, will we improve the functioning of health services and improve the availability of health services? I have serious doubts. The checks are needed as much as possible, but today I hear that the patient is being sent back three times, twice in the same hospital as half a day. He goes to the second hospital, and in the third hospital he dies in three days. I don't think it's the control. The problem is somewhere else. He was already raised here. It's a chronic lack of doctors, and it's in many industries. There are no residents at the moment. With me in Podkarpacie, most health services report such needs. I see there's a reason. I think, Minister, that we should expect an answer, and that is what I expect, to ask what will change in this regard. There's no full cast today. Doctors on duty are overtired, they can't make a proper diagnosis. Then there are consequences. Not a day goes by that I'm not asked to intervene. I have just been informed by my family that something is wrong: Mr. President, please be interested. But I'm not here for this, Minister. These are problems that occur today in health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u216	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have a quick question. I am very curious about what my clubmate Jerzy Kozłowski mentioned in his speech, how many employees of the control corps in the National Health Fund will earn. It's not in the materials. I didn't find it. As I know from experience, not to corrupt a clerk, you have to pay well. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Very good, Mr. Stefan.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u217	Thank you. Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u218	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. I'm talking about art. 21a, which is now changing its sound. This is the solution that the voivodeship, in agreement with the director of the competent branch of the voivodship of the National Health Fund, may, at the request of the providers of benefits on the premises of that branch, establish a timetable for the functioning of the organisational units of hospitals specialising in the provision of health services. I mean, how it's gonna work in practice. Isn't that gonna limit access to health care? Will this actually improve the functioning of medical facilities in a given area? This is very important. Why am I asking this? Because Radom operated for many years and two hospitals still function today. In both hospitals there were the same troops, i.e. one-named conservative units. There was a system that they alternated on duty without any prejudice to the functioning of health services in this area. Hospitals praised this system very much, especially doctors praised it because it was a rest period. Then it was wiped out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, health care is constantly asking for this mechanism to be restored. Does this article fill in this mechanism? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's a good question.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u219	Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u220	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! During this debate, I received a call from Dr. n. med. Andrzej Vladyki, who is a doctor of emergency medicine. At the moment he works in the E.R. at the M.E.A. Hospital in Rzeszów. There is a huge SOR built with a landing site. He's gonna run this S.R. He's a high-end specialist. He said he's been watching the bill since yesterday. On the other hand, he says he's very pleased that there's going to be this inspection corps. He said why. As a high-end specialist, he thinks that control in the SORs is very necessary. He believes that the SORs should work primarily for doctors who have knowledge of this field. On the other hand, as he said, doctors who are to supervise residents are missing at the moment. A lot of hospitals take advantage of the fact that most of the doctors work there. There's not always control over this resident doctor. Therefore, I have a question: will this control lead to the SORs properly securing patients? Thank you very much. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: This is not doctor control.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u221	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u222	Minister! I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is well known that Kukiz15 fights corruption. Minister, as I would like to know all the mechanisms that you have foreseen that the elected officials in this corps should be, as I said before, except for any suspicions, but it is said: trust, but control. [[Dzierzyński.]] How will you protect this institution from the temptations of control? Our bill, which is tabled by us in the House - with media positions, all you have the opportunity to sign under our draft anti-corruption law - provides, among other things. A lifetime ban on employing people who were once caught in corruption and convicted in such an institution. Do you have in your project, or do you have in your vision in regulations mechanisms that will prevent people from working in this new creation, who have already once shown that they are weak in character? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u223	Thank you very much. [[But the controllers have nothing to do with...]] [[Can't you buy... from an inspector?]] [[No. Why don't you come in for a check-up and see what it looks like?]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[I'm six months old...]] The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Janusz Cieszyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u224	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. I think that they address a number of important issues, which fortunately also address the project itself. I'll answer it one at a time. With regard to Mrs Gelert's questions and whether and where the teams are transporting, that is, according to this provision, they transport the patient where this E.R. is, we have the coordination the dispatcher knows about, and the ambulance carries the patient where the E.R. is. Since the voivode, who is the organizer of this rescue system, participates in the process of concluding this agreement, we believe that by accepting this timetable, it will ensure that such a change does not adversely affect patients in any way. When it comes to the question of how we divide funds into night and Christmas aid, when a new entity comes, it is worth remembering that this is not happening automatically, only this is happening on request, i.e. if such a nationwide hospital addresses the director of the fund branch, it does not necessarily mean that such benefits will appear there. It's just an opportunity because we know there are signals that there are places where it would just be useful to meet the health needs of the local community. So it's an option, not a mandatory one. [[Can you quit? From driving?]] I think that branch directors throughout Poland meet the needs of healthcare providers every day, so that, if anyone wants to resign, it will also be possible if it does not affect patients' interests. There's been a lot of questions about centralization. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out here that we are talking about centralisation by the fact that all employees in control cells become employees of the fund's headquarters and that jobs are not taken away from the regions. It is extremely important that those who act as controllers be on the spot to know the local specificities. Centralisation, on the other hand, has one fundamental advantage: it will lead us to be able to standardise the interpretation of rules much more effectively than we have so far, which is often complained about by healthcare providers. [[Well, that's the bill.]] They say this: the fund, depending on the branch, accepts different interpretations. And it's hard to even accuse someone of evil will. There are simply no effective mechanisms for exchanging such information today. This mechanism is precisely the creation of this in the form of a central, subordinate headquarters, but functioning within these institutions. It is worth noting that the Act provides that the control corps is not only handled by the control panel. This is also the task of the voivodship branch. So this cooperation is still going to be with those people she talked about, e.g. Mrs Gądek, who have carried out checks, probably, if such checks were to be repeated, the same ones will come again. We're not planning any changes. I'll refer to what you asked. You were talking about an audit that lasted six months. That is why we introduce restrictions on the inspection time of one provider in a given year, depending on the amount of the contract. We want to ensure that, in the context of taking into account the rights of persons controlled, who are simply not in the current form of the benefit law, ensure that the duration of checks is reduced, prohibit re-controls, prohibit checks twice the same. Here, during the discussion during the presentation of the club positions, there was such a formulation that the Minister of Health could carry out an inspection at any time. That's true, but the rule that says he can't do it when he's there, there's a fund check going on, and that's an overriding rule. It will not be possible for the Minister of Health to carry out such control in parallel with the President of the Fund. The question is who invented the body and why invented it. Did the fund invent it? I here, on behalf of the Minister, present this bill. On the other hand, I must say to you that the foundations of the audit corps have just been set up at the National Health Fund headquarters. This is not a reform that the Minister imposes on the fund against his will. This is the way out to meet the expectations of a fund that wants an effective and strong audit service. Madame Małecka-Libera. Why do we start not with quality, but with control? Madam President, this is quality control. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: But first the Quality Act.]] Madam President, the general terms and conditions of the agreements lay down minimum requirements for beneficiaries. This is the quality element in the field of health care: we say what we require from the healthcare provider. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: When will the bill be, Minister?]] One of the control elements is the control of compliance with these requirements. Please note that in this respect we are saying that the quality of the law of the controlled entity is more important to us. We say that there are rights, for example. like the previous notice, they are disabled here, because we are all able to imagine that if they are e.g. certain requirements for the equipment and the number of staff in place and we know about the planned check in advance of a week, that and the equipment, and the staff will surely be there on time. That's why we're trying to break it down. Here, the quality that Madam President is asking about is very important in our view and hence the design of the rules. Mrs Wasilewska asked what the benefits are for the fund from the fact that this corps will be created. I think I've already said a little bit about that. On the other hand, there was a second important question about costs. I am very pleased with the attitude of Mr Kozłowski, who would have made our controllers golden... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ...then we move within the National Health Fund's financial plan as part of existing jobs. We aim to use the jobs we have, in a more efficient way, i.e. within the same resources, without increasing the cost. Of course, the costs associated with the organisation, with some adjustment of the IT system will be incurred, while on the scale of the fund we are talking about amounts, I think, negligible and of course included in this part of the plan, which concerns administrative costs, so that there are no additional costs. On the other hand, for the same measures, we will be able to obtain a much more efficient control body, enabling the use of new data analysis technologies. The institution for providing explanations shall be a form of pre-control. We ask the healthcare providers for specific information. And it also appeared in questions and statements that the fund knew everything anyway. Mrs Gądek pointed out that she knew every day. Exactly so, and that is why we are introducing an institution for testing activities based on information that are transmitted to the provider, instead of control, instead of this nuisance, because there is nothing to be deceived, control is a nuisance, so instead of this nuisance we send a question, ask for information and possibly call for the removal of infringements. We also introduce a threshold for the triviality of penalties and we say that penalties below 500 PLN will not be prosecuted. It should be noted here that this amount will be valued according to the increase in the price index. What does this translate into in practice? If we were to compare this with the penalties that are being imposed now, it would appear that we would not impose half of the penalties and that the loss would be only 10%. the amount of appropriations received. I believe one of you has said that these checks are being bullied. In my opinion, this oppression is precisely when the control takes 5 days and later you are told: 400 PLN of punishment. It doesn't make any economic sense, and we want to give it up. Mr Hok said that there is a need for higher quality. I think I've already referred to that. This quality in my opinion is already guaranteed under contract conditions, while effective control will be able to ensure that this quality is also perceived by the patient in line with the expectations of the fund president when concluding the contract. Will we improve the system by better control? In my view, yes, because we will be able to effectively analyse more cases using the same means, and we will be able to improve quality. Will the revision of the Control Act fundamentally change the system? This is only part of this change, but the changes must be comprehensive. This is just one of the many changes that the Ministry of Health has made in this House's term of office. As for the question, which is always very interesting, about how many controllers will earn, the ladies and gentlemen, the National Health Fund has a wage net and we do not change this wage net in connection with the implementation of this law. We move within the same budget, so that there is no way of creating any new, highly paid jobs, much higher than so far. As regards Mrs Wróblewska's question about the situation in the SORs, their full cast, as I have already mentioned, one of the very important elements of this audit is to check whether the quality of these benefits is as required by the agreement. Mr Dziuba asked about the guarantee of objectivity. I would like to combine the answer to this question with the answer to Mr Kozłowski's question on anti-corruption mechanisms. First of all, we introduce requirements for controllers. They can't be punished, they can't be SB's secret associates, they have to pass an exam that's quite difficult. Please note that we indicate not only formal knowledge but also psychophysical predispositions. It seems we've really come to this rather restrictively. At the same time, we introduce very strict reservations about who might be the controller, in which situations the controller should itself raise doubts, e.g. related to the fact that he is in any way family-related or has a permanent relationship with the person being controlled or with the employee of the person being controlled. We introduce a ban on work for a controlled entity for 2 years after the inspection has been completed and, what is important, we shift responsibility for maintenance, not on the controller himself, but on the person who has been subject to control, which is to say: Dear witness, it is your duty to ensure, under the threat of fine or detention, that the person who has carried out the inspection of your facility within 2 years of the completion of this inspection is not employed in it. I think I have answered all the questions that have been raised in the debate. Thank you very much for this once again and I ask you to support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee, Ms Anna Czech.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u226	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Once again on behalf of the committee, I thank you for drawing up such a rich law, solutions that are very much needed to improve the organisation of health care. I think the Minister has already explained very thoroughly all doubts about the operation of the control corps. I think this solution will be really good. On the other hand, I have been asked by Mrs Anna April about how this will look in practice. This is due to the justification and in general to the assumption that all SOR branches, as well as admission chambers, are bound by an agreement with the National Health Fund. The content of this agreement, if I remember correctly, was not recorded at the time when the network was set up, only the obligation to continuously operate SORs and branches, the admission rooms had been recorded since at least 2013 and over the years simply the problem of this simultaneous on-call and burden, as far as doctors are concerned, remained unresolved. So that right now - this is really a very good solution, expected by the healthcare providers for many years. I think it will be accepted with great gratitude, for which I thank you very warmly not only as rapporteur but also as provider. As far as this check is concerned, I'm just going to say that as far as quality is concerned, of course, the Quality Act... On the other hand, the fund mainly comes to control the records, the contract of the provider and the fund, which is mainly focused on this. Besides, I think the Quality Act will probably be processed in the future, too. This law generally solves a lot of problems, requires a lot of work from the Ministry and also from us, Members, but I think it is very good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u227	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products (prints Nos 3201 and 3244). I ask Mrs Anna April to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Health Committee to present a report on print no.3244 on the government draft law amending the Health Protection Act by consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products, print no. 3201. High Izbo! Today at the hour. 10 a meeting of the Health Committee was held at which the draft submitted was examined. He did not raise any controversy. During the process two legislative amendments were tabled, which did not raise any controversy either. The draft was adopted unanimously and therefore I ask the High Sejm to adopt this Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u229	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club vis-à-vis the government's draft amendment to the Health Protection Act of 9 November 1995 against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products, prints Nos 3201 and 3244. The amendment aims at adapting the existing provisions to the solutions adopted in the Commission's implementing decisions on the establishment of a common format for the notification of electronic cigarettes and spare containers, the format for the transmission and sharing of information on tobacco products, the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, the amendment clarifies the existing legislation on the production, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products. The Health Protection Act provides for a number of obligations which have been imposed on the chemical inspector and clarifies the provisions on the performance of the inspector's tasks. It was proposed, among others. in the proceedings conducted by the inspector, the introduction of specific provisions on service procedures with the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union, international organisations and institutions of the European Union in electronic form without the need for a qualified electronic signature or a trusted signature, to an address made available in the register of the Joint Electronic Data Transmission Point, so-called. EUCEG to simplify procedures and facilitate communication with foreign entities. The parties were allowed to submit explanations in the English language of the inspector's proceedings to request the submission of letters translated into Polish. The powers of the inspector to establish the non-compliance of the submitted documentation concerning tobacco products, electronic cigarettes and spare containers with the requirements of the Act have been introduced. This amendment aims to introduce a procedure to ensure that only products complying with the requirements of the Act are placed on the market. Recommendations have been made for the Directive to refer to the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Cases where the information provided is not considered to be a trade secret have been identified in order to remove the interpretative doubts concerning the information covered or not by the company's secret. In view of the need to ensure compliance of cigarettes with the requirements of the Act regarding maximum tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide levels in smoke, it was possible for the competent authorities of the State Sanitary Inspection to carry out the sampling of cigarettes. It has been clarified that the authorisation of an innovative tobacco product shall be made by decision in order to remove the interpretative doubts as to the form in which the inspector decides. In accordance with European Union legislation, the technical requirements for the unique identifier, registration, transmission, processing and storage of data and access to stored data have been standardised, the technical requirements for ensuring full compliance of systems used for unique identifiers and functions associated with other systems in the European Union. The requirements for the submission of electronic cigarettes and spare containers are clarified by indicating the obligation for each importer to make them where the manufacturer has not done so, and the obligations and powers of the contact person are specified. The expected effect of these measures will be to increase the effectiveness of the inspector's actions aimed at ensuring that tobacco products and related products, namely electronic cigarettes, spare containers and herbal products, comply with the requirements of the Act, are placed on the market. To date, the proposed amendments have proved ineffective or incompatible with the solutions adopted in the European Union. In the assessment of the Law and Justice Club, the proposed amendments are beneficial, in certain areas simplifying procedures to facilitate the conduct of business, increasing the inspector's control capacity, reducing illicit trade in tobacco products and thereby improving public health safety related to the use of tobacco, tobacco products and related products. The Law and Justice Club will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u231	Thank you. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, I am pleased to present an opinion on the government draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products, prints 3201 and 3244. Since my previous speaker was very careful about this project and analyzes it very thoroughly, I will only say two sentences. There is absolutely no doubt about the project. This is a clarification of certain provisions. The project is based on EU law, prepared by the European Commission and absolutely no reservations about the project itself. On the other hand, the only question is that the European Commission adopted this proposal in 2015. We are only adopting it at the moment, but it certainly affects entrepreneurs and how they are to implement the law we have adopted. So it's just from this angle. We have one reservation, but as for the project itself, we will, of course, vote in favour. Nevertheless, since we are talking here about a very important law, a law on health protection against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products, I would like to take advantage of this time and say from this point on that this law is extremely important for simply the health reasons of our society. The WHO clearly emphasises that risk factors such as smoking are still one of the most important factors that affect health and are also one of the main causes of the emergence or spread of civilization diseases. I'm not going to talk about sick units here, because it's not here, but I've reached out to the latest research that the National Institute of Public Health has done. I would like to share this with you here. In 2016, it turned out that risk factors, so-called. behavioral, which is responsible in our country for the loss of healthy years, is as high as 35.6% , of which the diet is 17.2% and smoking as much as 14.2%. So this is one of the very important health risk factors. And many times when discussing both health programmes and legislation related to the consequences of smoking, we raise this to a point where smoking will actually be kept to a minimum. Unfortunately, the studies carried out by this institute in 2018 show that, as far as there is a small, minimal decrease in smoking cigarettes or tobacco products by women, this is at the same level as in the last few years for men at the moment. On the other hand, there is a very disturbing trend. Namely, the number of people who simultaneously use tobacco products and electronic products is increasing. These results are undoubtedly very worrying due to the state of health, and I think that both with this bill and with all the others, which are designed to protect against the consequences, the effects of tobacco use, we will need to take a very close look at this subject in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u233	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed regulation shall adapt national provisions to Union implementing acts concerning Article. 15 and Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No Those Union implementing acts shall regulate the technical requirements for the unique identifier, registration, transmission, processing and storage of data and access to stored data, the technical requirements for ensuring full compliance of the systems used for unique identifiers and the functions associated with other systems in the European Union. Other regulations of this project were presented in detail by my previous speakers. I would like to focus on what the Sejm Analysis Office has noticed: we are introducing the proposed solutions quite late. In fact, we have a very short period, even considering the vacathio legis, and therefore we have very limited possibilities for implementing this law. Therefore, as Kukiz,15 we will make an amendment. I would like to focus a little more on this amendment, because it is very, very important for the industry, which, of course, says with one voice that it is interested in implementing this project as soon as possible. According to what I have written in the justification for this amendment, the non- award before 20 May 2019 of the identification codes to manufacturers, importers and manufacturing plants and machines will prevent these entities from obtaining unique identifiers and identifying their products and thus fulfilling the obligations under the Act. With such a large number of operators and a very short time remaining to give them identification codes, there will certainly be organisational and technical difficulties that will prevent all operators from obtaining codes and consequently fulfilling the obligation to register the trade in tobacco products. In addition, it should be borne in mind that errors may occur during the first months of operation of the system, e.g. when recording events such as misscanning packaging or inaccurate transfer of data to repositories systems, e.g. writer's mistakes. In these circumstances, it is appropriate to temporarily exclude the criminal liability of those entities under Article. 12c points 6 and 7 of the Act for failure to comply with the obligations relating to the use of unique identifiers and to the registration of the time of entry into possession and movement of packaging of tobacco products. Proposed date of late entry into force the provisions, i.e. 20 May 2020, are in line with the date of the end of trade in unmarked products with unique identifiers referred to in Article. 37 of the Regulation therefore complies with Union law. The temporary delay in the entry into force of the contested provisions will avoid punishing those who will not be able to adapt their activities to the new requirements, not on their own fault or negligence, only because of the late implementation of this project under the Sejm and thus into force. Once again, I ask the House to support this amendment which I am submitting to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u236	However, of course - I speak as a person who is a strong opponent of smoking - we will support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u237	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mr John Łopata, the PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u238	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my opinion on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. High Seym! The government bill concerns the amendment of the Act of 9 November 1995 on the protection of health against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. The purpose of the proposed regulation, as has already been the case many times here, is to bring the tobacco legislation into line with the European Union's legislation. The amendment concerns in particular the adaptation of the Tobacco Act to the solutions adopted in Commission Implementing Decision (EU) No 24 November 2015. The essential part of the proposed legislation is directly linked to the need to adapt the Polish law to the requirements of the European Union. Poland, like other Member States, is required to ensure the functioning of the identification system and the use of protection on pre-packed tobacco products as from 20 May 2019 for cigarettes and self-rotation tobacco as well as from 20 May 2024 for tobacco products other than cigarettes and self-rotation tobacco. The implementing rules, which entered into force on 6 May 2018, i.e. last year, regulate technical requirements in principle, do not, however, specify how the entity issuing the identifiers to which individual packages of tobacco products and packaging are marked. The determination of the entity's competence and supervision of the performance of its tasks, as well as the identification of a unique identifier in physical form and the establishment of an excise mark as a safeguard of its elements, shall leave the said provisions at the disposal of the Member States for a free decision. The proposed law responds to precisely these regulatory needs. It's already been emphasized, but I think that's what's most important. It should be noted that its entry into force at such a time as I mentioned earlier would allow the regulation to be implemented by 20 May 2019. The adjustment of the system by manufacturers, importers and retailers of tobacco products is quite difficult because we present this act late, but it is probably not impossible. Therefore, I think that in order to avoid this, this law should be supported, all the more so because according to estimates of the government of the Republic of Poland tobacco production in Poland is about 150 billion cigarettes and 35 thousand. t tobacco per year. The industry is even higher in size, 175 billion cigarettes, of which almost 80% is intended for other markets of the European Union, and about 27 000. t smoking tobacco. The proposed regulation, in addition to its reference to the tobacco industry, will also have an impact on the part of the public entities that will carry out supervisory responsibilities in this respect. In any event, given the volume and revenue of production, and the revenue from it - 23 billion per year. excise duty plus VAT, that's almost 8% total budgetary impact - these provisions need to be implemented. On behalf of the club, I declare that we will support and support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u239	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u240	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club with regard to the government draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. The main objectives of the project are the implementation of EU law. These rules primarily facilitate contacts between tobacco operators and the chemical inspector. It is crucial for them to be able to submit documentation in English, which will certainly reduce the costs associated with its translation. At the same time, in cases of reasonable doubt concerning the extension of the dossier, the legislator stated that the inspector could request the translation of the documents into Polish. In addition, the project allows electronic communication between the parties without the need to confirm its qualified signature. This change adapts the legal status to present times and technological opportunities and, importantly, results from the practice in other Member States. In the context of the implementation of this amendment, the existing rules on the procedure for notification of new products are clarified. It is a matter of rules that raised a lot of questioning of interpretation. This project should also be assessed in terms of health safety of Poles and Poles. The clarification of the chemical inspector's tasks has the potential to better protect the public from the consequences of tobacco, tobacco products and electronic cigarettes. Due to the fact that the changes proposed by the government are largely the implementation of EU law and the implementation of good practices commonly used in other countries of the European Union, Modern will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u241	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. The aim of this project is to introduce such amendments to the Act of 9 November 1995 on the protection of health against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products, which will constitute implementation of European Union law. This particularly applies to the format adjustment, the reporting of electronic cigarettes and spare containers, the transmission and sharing of information on tobacco products, the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The bill also clarifies the existing provisions of the Tobacco Act, which so far raised interpretation doubts, in the area of production, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products. Among the expected consequences of the introduction of new adjustment regulations are the reduction of trafficking in illicit products, the provision of fuller information on tobacco products, the strengthening of the control capacity for tobacco products and the possible slight increase in their prices. With regard to public health, the changes made may have positive effects on improving safety and reducing the negative consequences of tobacco, tobacco products and related products. It is important to remember that smoking and exposure so called. passive smokers for tobacco smoke have serious health effects. It is worth noting the scale of tobacco use: almost 23% test persons over 15 years of age smoke tobacco every day. It is the largest single cause of death, as well as the cause of many diseases. Among the most dangerous consequences of smoking are the increased risk of cardiovascular disease, malignancies, respiratory diseases, infertility and pregnancy disorders, damage to the immune system or general deterioration of health. Tobacco as a psychoactive substance also has strong addictive potential and has consequences in the area of mental health - it affects the central nervous system, is responsible for the onset of physical addiction and acts as a stimulant. There is still a lack of complete data describing the use of so-called. e-cigarettes. However, it can be assumed that their consumption is increasing and is becoming more and more popular among young people. The effect of reducing their consumption, which reduces their attractiveness in the reception of young people on this ground, is also necessary. The solutions proposed in the draft law will make tobacco products in the European Union easier to trace, which will reduce their trafficking, access to and attractiveness of tobacco products. The adoption of the amendments will slightly increase costs for the tobacco industry and consequently also for individual users. Without precise data in this area, however, it can be assumed that the changes made will reduce consumption and will have a positive impact on the health of Poles and Poles, with particular emphasis on young people. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the procedated bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u243	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question will be asked by Mrs Alicia Chybick, PO-KO. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Lydia Gądek, PO-KO. Time, Member, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u244	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, there's actually no special controversy about this bill. At least it wasn't shown at committee meetings. In our view it is necessary to adopt a law as soon as possible. On the other hand, given that this is a typical law, referring to the health of Poles, public health, every opportunity we have, we need to use it to talk about it, ask questions, ask for our health, especially young people, to take better care of it. We know today from statistics that the number of smokers in Poland has slightly decreased - a bit, unfortunately - we have obtained some kind of plateau, but despite this decrease in no way has the number of people with COPD and allergies decreased. Other factors - we already know what they are - affect the development of these diseases. And on this occasion, I would like to ask the Minister in what areas [[♪ The bell ♪]] actions are being taken in relation to the worst killer of Poles today, i.e. smog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u245	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My question concerns one of the important risk factors, the effects of smoking cigarettes and tobacco products. This is undoubtedly one of the most important factors affecting chronic diseases, civilizational diseases. One of the documents, the strategic documents to eliminate these factors, is the National Health Programme. I wanted to ask the Minister: How has he been notified in this strategic programme for three years? addiction, where e.g. Are we talking about cigarettes? What's new, what new programmes have been proposed in this programme? And what's the evaluation after 3 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u247	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Puda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u248	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Poland is one of the undisputed leaders in tobacco production. It is also not a secret that most of this production - more than 70% It goes to foreign markets. Well, unfortunately Poles despite many warnings, even though we all know every day that tobacco products can cause heart disease, cancer, still use such drugs. This is a habit that is very difficult to fight. The producers of tobacco products in Poland are often foreign companies. The four companies themselves, which are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, are companies which make it possible to say that the market is dominated by large companies, which also make quite a profit. I have a question for the Members of the applicants. Firstly, has this bill been consulted with these companies and what is the position of tobacco manufacturers? I'm talking about the big ones listed in the bill in the explanatory memorandum. And second question. Do we really have to do this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and when is the deadline for this type of regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u249	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Goncier, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u250	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The proposed proposal differentiates the use limits and quantities of certain components of tobacco products and electronic cigarette liquids which will be confidential or covered by commercial secrecy. I would like to ask you exactly what the thresholds adopted in the draft for determining which information on ingredients of tobacco products and electronic cigarette liquids will not be regarded as confidential or subject to trade secrets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u251	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u252	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that the tobacco industry - traders, wholesalers - is waiting for this bill? They pay fair taxes, and they want to make fair money. Will this law and its alignment with the EU Directive, the introduction of appropriate IT solutions, the inclusion on the packaging of identifiers, contribute to the reduction of illicit trade in tobacco products? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u253	Thank you. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u254	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the representatives of all the clubs very warmly for their support for this project. I particularly want to thank you for clearly pointing out the harmfulness of smoking and the impact of smoking on human health. In a clear way, representatives of all clubs, presenting information on the harmfulness of smoking, its impact on health, appeal to Poles, those who are not yet convinced to quit this addiction, which may have a negative impact on their future life. Not only for their health and life, but also for those who function in their surroundings. Ladies and gentlemen! During the discussion on this project, a number of questions were raised or doubts about the procedure for introducing this regulation. I would like to clarify that these provisions of the European Commission, this Directive, were established in 2014, but the implementing rules, the implementing regulation, which defined precisely how this Directive was implemented in the legal systems of the individual countries of the European Union, were only issued in April last year. Immediately after the publication of this regulation, the current government, the Ministry of Health, took concrete action to introduce these solutions in our country. Discussions took place in different environments. There have been proposals to extend this regulation to include provisions which are not directly derived from the Directive, and this has affected the extension of the negotiation process in connection with this project with the environments concerned by bringing it into legal order. The final decision of the permanent committee of the current government was that this project should contain only and exclusively provisions which result directly from the Directive of the European Union. Mr Kozłowski pointed out that too late the preparation of this project could prevent it from actually being introduced since 20 May 2019. I would like to stress that in the law and in the implementing regulation to this draft law, there is a clear indication that all products produced before that date and which appear on the market after 20 May do not have to be subject to the provisions and rigors of that law. So they can function in parallel on the market after 20 May. This period is defined as an annual period, i.e. until 20 May 2020. With regard to the exclusion of criminal liability for non-compliance with the provisions of this regulation, this is not possible because these provisions result directly from the EU Directive and the Regulation, so here the European Union does not leave the Member States of the European Union the freedom to apply the provisions on imposing or not penalties for failing to comply with these requirements. In the course of the discussion, questions were raised regarding problems related to the prevention of respiratory diseases or actions promoting a healthy lifestyle. Of course, such programmes are implemented both under the National Health Programme and other programmes financed by the Ministry of Health budget, they are also financed by other programmes implemented under other departments. Mrs Gądek asked about the measures taken by the current government in the fight against smog. So I want to inform you that there's an air protection program that is an interdisciplinary and inter-ministerial program. It is implemented and implemented, with specific financial resources being allocated to it, which are a prerequisite for its smooth implementation. As regards the other activities of the Ministry of Health in the field of health care of Poles, prevention and promotional activities, they are carried out within the framework of the National Health Programme and among others. In the framework of this programme, the oncology centre has set up a clinic to help smokers. As part of this programme, we also provide training for medical personnel, equip them with appropriate knowledge, skills to effectively conduct preventive, promotional activities, and support those who are addicted to tobacco. We also run an action on a wider forum, among others. we cooperate with the Employers of the Republic of Poland through various kinds of actions, among others. free zones are created without smoke in workplaces. These are concrete examples of what the Minister of Health is doing. We can prepare written information for you. There is much more to this and I think we can document the specific broad actions of the Minister of Health in the field of care for the health of Poles. Mr Gonciusz asked about the scope of the data which will not be regarded as a trade secret, the data concerning the composition of individual products, as well as the thresholds which have been defined as thresholds which allow for the recognition that this does not constitute a trade secret. So here, as far as the possibility of affecting this phenomenon is concerned, the Polish Government does not have such an impact, because the implementing regulation specifically states what we may consider to be a trade secret in this case and what we do not. Therefore, the Polish Government has no freedom here, and we could not include such entries in the bill. So that I very much thank you all for your support at this stage of the process and ask you to adopt this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u255	Since during the second time... Excuse me, I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna April, to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr Grzegorz Puda, who asked a question about the time limit within which this law must be adopted because if it were not, it would give rise to large perturbations for the tobacco industry for consumers. This deadline is May 20, 2019. Until then, it should be converted, and as it has already been said here, this law, so to speak, is ordering this market and it is expected by both producers and wholesalers. We hope that it will reduce the grey area and contribute to the increase of revenue to the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u257	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 42 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector (prints 3198 and 3215). I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. The Commission was working on this project yesterday. Two amendments have been tabled, which have been accepted by the committee, and the committee, of course, recommends that the High House adopt this draft law. Two sentences on the bill itself. The aim of the Act is to improve the energy security of Poland, to construct a new thread of oil pipeline, Pomorskie pipeline linking Gdańsk with Płock, construction or modernization, to rebuild a number of pipelines in Poland in order to improve the logistics of oil products and oil in our country. It is clear that the most important objective of this law is to increase energy security, to introduce more opportunities to diversify oil supplies to Poland, to improve logistics in Poland, also where the possibility of pressing petroleum products is limited and transport takes place in the form of e.g. railway tankers. It would be very long, very difficult to carry out these investments, these work in the current regime, because these regulations are often scattered in different laws. Therefore, in this act positive experiences from other laws were gathered, above all specialization, in order to effectively carry out investments improving the energy security of Poland, increasing the possibility of diversifying raw materials delivered to our country. For this reason, the committee strongly recommends that the High House adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u259	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u260	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position regarding the government draft law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector, print No 3198. The revised draft law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector ensures the creation of a legal framework allowing government policies to strengthen the energy security of the country. In order to strengthen this security, it is necessary to carry out a number of investments in the construction of pipelines for the transport of crude oil or petroleum products and the reconstruction, expansion or reconstruction of existing oil pipelines or petroleum products. The implementation of these necessary investments on the basis of the current general rules governing the investment process would imply the need to carry out a multi-annual process of preparation of investments, which would have a negative impact on the energy security of the Republic of Poland. In addition, note It is appropriate that the general provisions in force are not adapted to the preparation and implementation of complex linear investments, which are strategic investments in the oil sector. In order to enable efficient preparation and implementation of the above mentioned. investment in the draft law provides for a specific legal framework for preparation and implementation. The draft law provides for a number of simplifications in the procedure for preparing and implementing strategic investments consisting in particular: the introduction into the legal system, issued by the competent voivode, the decision to establish the strategic location of investments in the oil sector, which will be an instrument which will fully regulate the location of investments and their individual parts, which will lead to a minimization of the number of proceedings and the time taken to issue administrative acts necessary for the implementation of the investment; the simplification of the procedure for obtaining decisions prior to the determination of the strategic location of investments in the oil sector and water law; the acceleration of administrative proceedings by specifying the time for the administrative authorities to issue individual decisions and the introduction of a legal basis for imposing penalties in the event of a timely examination of the case; the introduction of provisions allowing the investor to effectively obtain the right to property necessary for the implementation of the investment, while ensuring adequate compensation for expropriation or compensation for the limitation of property rights; the possibility of an investor to enter the property premises for the purpose of carrying out measurements, studies or other work necessary for drawing up an information sheet of an undertaking or a report on the environmental impact of an undertaking; the application of the spatial planning and development of the law, the law, the law on the restoration of the restoration of the restoration of the law on the property and the agricultural and forestry sector. It must be stressed that the specific procedure for preparation and implementation concerns only the investments explicitly listed in the annex to the draft law. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed solutions contained in the draft law comprehensively regulate the investment process with regard to strategic investments in the oil sector, which will certainly simplify and streamline this process. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u261	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Czerwinski, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u262	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I'm going to say we're going to support this bill. The fact that state security has priorities, in this Chamber, most people know and realize that. But there are some comments I would like to make on this occasion. With investments, so-called. there are always a lot of problems, and that's what we all know. Those who wanted to do anything in society know the problem of sometimes knowingly buying a narrow parcel to negotiate with the organizational committee certain conditions on which there is an opportunity to earn money. And aside from state security, you can talk about things like they used to be in Szczyrk at the extractor. The lift didn't work for two years. Everything was fine, except someone used the right to block the extractor. There were even churches committees where somebody wanted to make money and make money. In short, there are different interests of different groups in the community. And if the community has expectations about the supply of goods such as transport, energy, gas, fuel, then it can also not allow that by someone else's obstructive operation of this common, expected good it simply does not have. Another issue is that all types of specialities are special and should not be common. We, as the previous government, went on the road of specialization, so that there wouldn't be any doubt. In 2012 there was a decision about the Euro in Poland and Ukraine and it had to be done for a certain period of time on the motorway, which is why the law was prepared. The last act in our hands was a law amending the law on power extraction, specifically regarding Kozienice. Power plant built, but so what if you can't bring power to the system. It needed this bill, and it was created quickly. About the terminal, about the gasport, we all know what it was like. The question arises as to whether the fuel which at the moment includes the design of this specialty is such an important topic today that it must also be a special act, or whether it is not possible to prepare something wider. Here, Minister, I don't want to throw a pebble in your backyard, but I have to throw it into the government's backyard, to the Prime Minister, because, in order for you to cooperate, there should be a coordinated law. After all, we once said together in our previous meetings that we should have national energy plans, that communication channels should be developed over many years, which are planned to be carried out in order to ensure that these important investments are carried out. You're doing your job, but there are no government decisions to coordinate these things. One example of nuclear law and so-called law. investment in nuclear energy. It took three years, but there was an agreement on the principles on which to invest in a nuclear power plant. And now let's focus on what this law is about, which we are looking at, which is the preparation of the investment and then the execution of it. It is also about shortening the road or taking some shortcuts, without public discussion, but also about using the State's power to make investment decisions. And we leave the compensation case. No one should be harmed because his property is intended for public use. It's okay. It's just a lot of rush now. That's why I'm going to make three amendments. I would like to ask the Minister to consider these amendments. It seems to me that they sort things out, which means they coordinate the former specialities with what this project contains. First of all, it is stated there that there is a month for the decision to be made. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The term "month' is incorrect. A month could be 29 days, and it could be 31 days. Let's make it 60.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u263	Thank you, he will.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u264	And one last word, Marshal. I would like to make these amendments and ask for this, in support of this bill... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I'll ask the question. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u265	Good. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. In that case, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u266	Mrs. Marshal! It is a pity that your marshal did not allow the Minister to present these sufficiently rational amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u267	Mr President, I remind you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, you have 5 minutes to present your position on behalf of the club or the circle, as agreed by the Bureau and the Convention. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u268	Okay, but you've taken my time right now, Marshal, but this isn't about... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u269	Then don't make any comments about my address. I follow the rules of procedure, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u270	...the Minister and the draft law, because if the bill is correct, it is not controversial, it is expected, it accelerates the investment process, we should support it, we should prepare a good bill. It's just that if the comments are right, no one here is maliciously doing it. This has already been checked for many other solutions, and here there is no major controversy. As Mr Czerwiński mentioned, at the time it was a specialty, falling within certain scopes, for the first time used in the construction of motorways. I don't think this issue would have been dealt with until today if it hadn't been done, because these are pretty big surfaces, big strings. And then this was where all the specialties were exchanged... They are similar, because in a similar way they regulate the entire investment process. They may differ in minor details, but these details result from experiences that were acquired somewhere along the way. We can talk about the Kozienice case here. This law was also passed for the previous government and later caused quite a controversy. There were very intense protests of landowners. And such solutions must be avoided. We will support the current solutions as much as possible, because it is important and important that what serves economic development does not cause additional costs, or even reduces them, because the investment that lasts less is cheaper, to support. It's about solutions that have worked out. Therefore, your marshal, on behalf of the Polish People's Party, I would like to say that we will support these solutions. [[Applause]] Did I say that right?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u271	I am very pleased to hear that, sir. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said here about the objectives of this project. Of course, they are, you can say, far-reaching, connected with the basic interests of the state, such as energy security, safe, normal functioning of the state, normal functioning of enterprises, normal, efficient, undistorted functioning of the community. And, of course, it is a fact that the implementation of such investments, as mentioned in the process of this project, of linear investments ensuring the transport of oil, petroleum products, is severely hindered by the existing legislation. Therefore, this project provides for a number of administrative, organisational, speeding up procedures and introduces rules allowing the investor to effectively acquire the right to property necessary for the implementation of the investment, with adequate compensation. Then I'll start with this last point, which is to secure the interests of the owners. Of course, every special act that we deal with in the High House, such a special act, in which there is a conflict between the social interest and the private interest, provides for mechanisms that enable these compensations to be provided. However, during the implementation of these rules, and later in practice, this is often the situation that owners have to go to court and have frequent disputes because the investor does not provide adequate compensation. I must say that here, however, the question arises as to whether in a democratic legal state where such investments should not be exceptions, but should be part of a broader long-term plan, they should not be provided for in such laws, I would say, systemic, systemic solutions... So I ask the Minister very much to address this problem, how the rights of the owners will be effectively guaranteed - I repeat: effectively - because everything can be written down, but the practice has shown that it has been different. With regard to the direction adopted by the Act, which provides for certain facilitations, one must agree with it, but should it by chance - once again - not be part of such, I would say, a comprehensive system related to energy security, and secondly, will the rights of owners be sufficiently respected? Of course, we will support this bill. The issue of energy security is absolutely beyond any doubt, such as when we have to act together, to create a legal framework together. To conclude, please refer to the doubts I have expressed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u273	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I don't see any calls. I'll close the list then. I would ask you to ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL - the Union of European Democrats. Time - 1 minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u274	Thank you very much. Marshal, I'm not gonna use this time to the end. I have a question addressed to the Minister because there are specific investments to be implemented under this law. It is known that this applies to sacred property rights, which must cause emotions. Have you analysed how this investment process will proceed? Can there be any conflict there, or will there be a lot of conflict there? Did you analyze this problem? It's important. It's important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u275	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Maciej Małecki's question, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, the strategic objective of this law is to increase independence in the supply of oil from the east. On the one hand, the second thread of the Pomorskie oil pipeline is to provide an element of independent supply of oil on the Gdańsk - Płock line, but also to increase the volume of oil shipped. What does Naftoport's adjustment look like in this context? Does the Minister envisage, and to what extent, the gradual further independence from the supply of oil from the eastern direction, the decline in contracts concluded with Russian companies? Of course, I ask for an estimate approximated for individual time periods, in so far as such calculations can be given today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u277	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Czerwinski, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u278	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, a quick question. Don't you think it's desirable to clarify the timing of the decision? The bill refers to a month. February may be 28, 29 days, month may be 30, 31 days. May I remind you that failure to meet the deadline of the month causes punishment. The second point - in the spirit of what Mirosław Suchoń said - concerns the harmonisation of the appeal path, as is the case with nuclear energy, with the opening of a gate to the general courts, allowing for an action without stopping the investment process. This is a twin solution for nuclear investments. Don't you think the introduction of these amendments would clean up the laws? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u279	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two short questions. The first concerns the realisation of Boron's investment - Trzebinia. The deadline for implementation is 2021. I would like to ask whether these provisions will speed up implementation or make it happen on time. The second question concerns compensation issues. How many owners can it be about, do you have any insight into it? Of course, this is a very preliminary stage, but do you have any insight, how many owners can deal with this problem and how many conflicts can arise with these investments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u281	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Minister Piotr Naimski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I should start with the amendment tabled by your Member on clarification. In fact, a month is a month, 30 days. This is the amendment we're going to consider. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, this is another discussion. I'm sorry, this is another discussion, and let's not go into it here, because there's going to be a committee meeting and we're going to discuss it at this meeting. As regards the improvement in the situation of the refinery as a result of the construction of the second thread of the oil pipeline from Naftoport to Płock, of course the capacity in this section will be increased. At the moment the situation is that on the section from the Polish border to Płock there are three threads, on the section from Płock to the western border there are two threads, and on the section from Płock to Gdansk or from Gdansk to Płock there is one thread. This means that if necessary we are able to meet the needs of the refinery in Płock, but also the customers in Germany, but we are not able to meet all the requirements of customers who need raw material. Why? Because we are not able to transmit different kinds of oil, which in modern installations are necessary to optimize the entire refining process. This second thread, which we will build, will mean, first of all, that we are safe, because the failure, so to speak, on this one existing thread of Gdańsk - Płock would be a big problem. Therefore, the construction of this second thread is for a reason of at least 100% Reasonable. In addition, it will improve the economic conditions for the Pocket refinery, which is obvious. In answer to Mr Małecki's question at the same time, I would like to say that this will allow further diversification of the directions of oil supply, the raw material to the Płock refinery, because it will allow imports of crude oil from various sources from different suppliers through Naftoport. By the way, Naftoport, as far as its handling capacity is concerned, can handle it perfectly. This will enter whether it will be possible, perhaps better said, to implement the strategy of both Orlen and Lotus, here we are talking mainly about Orlena, which comes down to reducing the amount of oil from one direction, and this one direction, the dominant direction at the moment, is the Russian direction. That's what this tactic is all about. This law is part of the implementation of the government resolution from the end of last year, in which the government adopted this strategy for oil logistics. When it comes to conflicts, it's like the investor, first of all, has to try. This is the case for other linear investments that are necessary in energy. Both PSE and Gaz-System must build energy lines and pipelines. This is a process that requires cooperation between the investor, local authorities and individual owners. As regards the material protection of the rights of owners, this is included in the law, in subsequent laws. In a sense, it can be said that it is sufficient to respect what is a statutory provision so that these rights are respected so that due compensation, compensation is taken into account so that they are paid in real time, specified. That's how it's gonna be this time. This bill is not the first law of this kind. The investments carried out by PERN under this law will in this sense be similar to what has already been carried out for a long time both in the energy sector and in the gas sector. It seems that the experience of applying these special laws will simply be very important. It will be applied, applied. And the general remark of Members that we are dealing with another special law, that we should have general legislation in our country, which allows for strategic linear investments for you to be implemented in a predictable, planned and defined manner. I can say that the next governments - from my memory it appears that four more governments, maybe five - had in their general programme the preparation of a law on the implementation of linear investments. For various reasons it turns out that it is very difficult. It is not impossible to compensate in one law for all the provisions that are necessary to implement different investments in different sectors, but it is difficult. So let's go, I said this during the committee meeting, by way of small steps. There are special laws that are currently being applied. This is another special bill. Each next one collects the previous one's experience. That's what we've done, recently updating the terminal bill. Also in this law, which is a new law, we include these experiences which result from the application of previous ones. It is the intention that in the future these experiences can be used to simply normalize all of this, whether it's in a separate bill or in a code. Anyway, this is ahead of us. I can add, in conclusion, that this law that we are now investigating has a limitation, i.e. it is not a general law, but it has an annex, enumeratively mentioned investments. This is a kind of limitation, but also flexibility. The limitation, because it is simply for other ideas or other projects which do not fit in this law, do not fit, in the future it will have to be discussed again. It also seems to me that the opening record, which is included in this Act, which concerns the modernisation of existing oil pipelines or product pipelines, is needed, is necessary. I would like to thank all the Members of the Commission for supporting this point in the Act, because the logistics infrastructure in this sector is very old. It was built in the '60s, sometimes earlier, in the '50s. At the moment, it happens that in a way, you might say, a sudden need to upgrade or replace some part of the infrastructure, and if you had to apply all the general rules, that would mean it would take too much time. Thank you very much to all the clubs for supporting this bill. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u283	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Infrastructure to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 43 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Construction Law Act (prints 3195 and 3209). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u284	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Infrastructure, I submit a report on the committee meeting held on 20 February 2019. The report is contained in print No 3209. An amendment to the Rule was tabled at the committee meeting. 4 and de facto art. Four is gone. Hence, the bill was shortened to four articles, and initially there were five of them. Moreover, there was no major change except that there was a discussion about the time of the bill and the 14-day deadline for the law was maintained. I recommend, on behalf of the committee, that the whole report be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u285	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour of expressing my views on the draft law submitted to the Senate Parliamentary Sejm amending the Construction Law Act from prints No. 3195 and 3209. The aim of the project is to align the right with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 7 February 2018, which ruled that Article. 16 point 3 of the Law of 7 July 1994. Construction law, in so far as it authorises the competent minister to determine the limitation of the scope of building rights in the relevant regulation, is incompatible with Article. Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. Article 4 is replaced by the following: Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution provides that freedom of choice and occupation and the choice of place of work are guaranteed for everyone. The exceptions are laid down in the Act. Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 the Constitution states that restrictions on the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights can only be laid down in the Act and only if they are necessary in a democratic state for its security or public order or for the protection of the environment, health and public morality or freedom and rights of others. Such restrictions shall not affect the essence of freedom and rights. In the opinion of the Constitutional Court, as set out in Article. Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution freedom of work can be limited only in the act of the rank of law. Currently, the Construction Law defines among others. functions in construction, which can only be performed by persons with appropriate technical education and professional practice, established by a decision hereinafter referred to as building rights, issued by a professional self-government body. The Act regulates the specialties in which construction rights are granted, as well as the education and practice required for a particular type of speciality for the design or management of construction works without limitation or to a limited extent. The Act also provides that restrictions on the scope of building rights will be determined by regulation by the Minister responsible for construction, planning, spatial planning and housing in agreement with the Minister responsible for higher education and science. The essence of the proposed amendments is to raise to the rank of the law governing building rights by transferring the provisions of Chapter 4 of the Regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure and Development of 11 September 2014 on the independent technical functions in construction, governing the scope of building rights in § 10 Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In our opinion, the proposed amendments fully implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is why the Law and Justice Club will support the Senate draft law amending the Construction Law Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u287	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Krystyna Sibinska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u288	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There won't be a correction, though it's a shame, because we wanted to speed it up. We believe that you will need some time in the ministry to prepare the relevant regulation. This is the time of May-June, and therefore it seems that we will make time, but I must say that we are in time because we are actually consuming the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal with this draft law amending the Construction Law, because the sentence was passed more than a year ago and we should have done so by 12 February, the government should have made a proposal on this matter. It didn't work. We're doing it through the senate road. And you had to do it right away. I know there's still a discussion on the matter of separating the profession of architect and engineer by law. The environment is discussing a lot and this is what we need to discuss, and we need to talk about it. However, it is better to discuss in depth how to do this in order to satisfy these two professional groups, because without architects there is no good conduct of the investment process, and without engineers all the more. This applies to nearly 120 thousand. Engineers and 12,000. architects, so this is a big professional group. They should still participate and need to know how they participate in the investment process. So we know that and thank you for the information that has been given to us that this work on this broad professional group is going on. I hope that, as members of the committee, we will have the opportunity to lean on these rules. Today, on the other hand, we are really transferring what is written in the regulation to the statutory level, because this is what the Constitutional Tribunal ordered us to do. We as the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will support this project. Let me stress: we tried to speed things up a bit, but we accept all these arguments. On the other hand, with all seriousness, Minister, I would like to say that the investment process has no political colors, and we all want to facilitate this engineering process for both engineers, architects and officials, because they are the first ones to face these regulations when issuing building permits, when making local plans. And no matter what we call it, it's all up to them. Today, our role... This may not be a popular subject, because it's a rather unbearable subject for us to argue about how this investment process is going to go, but I think we should all want it to be quicker and easier. I think that we should also return in this discussion to perhaps the basics of the education of architects and engineers, because we also have a lot of voices that are different in some EU countries, and the rules look different there. So maybe we should start such a systemic change from the basics of teaching in the professions, and only as a consequence of this change should we go further to expand or narrow these functions. But like I said, it's an obvious thing that we should have done a long time ago, so the sooner the better. We will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u289	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Mordak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u290	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present a position concerning printing no. 3195 containing a draft law amending the Construction Law Act. Unfortunately, the Kukiz Club15 cannot support this change because we believe that it cements the previous bad solutions for the profession of architect and construction engineer. What's the point? In general, it is not about defending one or the other professional group, but about improving the quality of architecture and space, generally speaking, spatial planning in Poland. In addition, the National Institute of Architecture and Urban Science has been appointed and he does not approve of this kind of solution either. Let me remind you, this is a government institution. Maybe I'll mention what the National Council of the Chamber of Architects and the National Institute of Architecture and Urbanities had to say about these legislative solutions. The National Council of the Polish Chamber of Architects pointed out that this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal revealed not only the problem of misplaced regulations governing the scope of building rights, but also a broader systemic problem related to the lack of proper regulation of the profession of architect and construction engineer as such. In the opinion of the Council, the full enforcement of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal should take place by adopting separate laws defining the professions of architect and construction engineer. And here it is added that the same opinion was presented by the National Institute of Architecture and Urban Science. Of course, this is an important voice, which should be taken into account, and it should not be justified only by such legislative solutions that some solutions should be transferred on the issue of independent technical functions in construction from one single regulation to the Construction Law. It should also be noted that, as far as other countries of the European Union are concerned, this problem or the kind of solution that exists in our country is, it seems, only three countries of the Union. In general, according to the reasoning that is proposed here, it should be assumed that when designing the largest part of the buildings that shape our space and architecture, i.e. buildings up to 1000 m3 of the cubature, construction engineers are preferred. Maybe we should also consider, for example. Masters of art, sculptors. I think they could handle architecture design no worse than construction engineers. In view of the above and in view of what I said earlier, Kukiz15 cannot support such solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u291	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u292	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My previous speakers explained and discussed the issues, substance and conditions that caused the need to consider the Senate draft law on amending the Construction Law. Our club is in favour of continuing the legislative work and putting the issue in line with the provisions of our constitution's article in the relevant legal act of the rank of the law. This will be the fulfilment of the conditions and decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. Nor do I hide that we would like to work on a new government project that will meet the new regulations on architecture, competitions and their scope, the need to meet the relevant requirements and to define the education and knowledge of those who will work in these professions. The club will support the solutions proposed today in this bill. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u294	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Senate draft law amending the Construction Law after the presentation of the committee report. Ladies and gentlemen! The ratio legis of the submitted project is de facto an improvement in the legal status of the article. 16 point 3 of the Law of 7 July 1994. Construction law in the area in which it empowers the competent minister to determine the limitation of the scope of the building rights and the guidelines on the content of the Regulation contained or not included in this respect. The legal situation that is in force today is inconsistent with the Article. Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. The first of these articles states that freedom of choice and occupation and freedom of choice of place of work are guaranteed for everyone. The exceptions are laid down in the Act. On the other hand, the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 indicates that restrictions on the exercise of constitutional rights and freedoms may be laid down only in the law and only if they are necessary in a democratic state for security or public order and all the essential elements listed in that paragraph. In view of the above, the substance of the project submitted is de facto the transfer of the provisions of Chapter 4 of the Regulation of the Minister for Infrastructure and Development on the independent technical functions in construction governing the scope of building rights to the Construction Law. Since these provisions do not comply with the provisions of the Constitution, the implementation of this request is most justified and should be supported. On this occasion, however, two important issues need to be mentioned. The first is a matter of delaying the implementation of this bill. I will ignore the fact that this submission comes from the Senate, not from a government that should de facto show initiative and submit an appropriate project to the High House. However, we are dealing with a systemic problem of regulating the status of an architect and construction engineer. My colleagues have talked about this and it seems that there is a lack of impulse, an in-depth debate and the will of the government to close these matters. As the functioning of countries in the area of investment and infrastructure is becoming increasingly complex, the new challenges that bring reality require appropriate regulation and empowerment. I agree with the position of both architects and engineers that this work must be carried out in a comprehensive way, taking into account the interests of the parties and the contemporary challenges. When implementing this project, we must not forget that there is a black hole that needs to be fixed, ladies and gentlemen. I expect the government to engage in very dynamic discussions that will lead to the regulation of these matters. That's what today's challenge calls for. Of course, we will support this law, but we will expect to see these aspects that I have just mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u295	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this bill must be supported, because it is time to adopt, to change the provisions that allow architects, for example, to confer powers. Last February 7th was the ruling of the Constitutional Court and the case was not settled for a year. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Minister moves the regulation to the Construction Law, and in the Construction Law he has no idea of architecture at all. This is a big problem. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in January 2018, Minister Gliński, who does not know why the current government has granted great powers in the field of architecture, signed a declaration with Davos. This is a declaration by the European States that they are obliged to operate [[♪ The bell ♪]] architectural policy. This is the material foundation of culture. With us, in Poland, there is no order in terms of the position of architect. I ask the Minister to address this important issue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u297	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The draft law amends the Construction Law Act, which results from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. These amendments shall be made at the last date specified by the Court. But I have a broader question. The Construction Law requires major changes, expected by local authorities, expected by investors. The aim is to simplify investment processes in Poland. I wanted to ask if the Ministry is working on a broad revision of the Construction Law. If so, what is the state of work? When can we expect such a broad discussion on this important regulation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u299	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Minister Arthur Sobonia to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this discussion and for these statements of support. I call on the Kukiz club to consider giving up this incomprehensible idea of voting against this... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, good. 'Cause that's what I figured. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, all those who have taken the floor here, that we are dealing only with an incident issue, i.e. a regulation which consists, in short, in transferring from the Regulation on stand-alone functions to the act of those provisions which we are talking about today, without any change, so that the process of recruitment and new powers of engineers will go smoothly so that there is no perturbation in this regard. This absolutely does not exempt us from working on a comprehensive solution to statutory issues related to the regulation of the engineering and architect professions. Of course, Mr Suchoń is comforted to say that he would like both the interests of architects and the interests of engineers to be taken into account in this process. Mrs Sibińska said that engineers and architects are needed. I will only shyly point out that these interests are contradictory. Hence the work on the ready-made billing projects... Because it's not just a serious debate anymore, it's a ready-made bill that we're working on. We can say that we already meet in this weekly mode with both Chambers. I hope that this will actually allow the drafting of three laws - because there is still a law on transitional provisions - so that they can be directed to government work and parliamentary work. I hope that both professional groups will be satisfied. Both these professional groups must, of course, be taken into account throughout the investment and construction process. This will be part of a major amendment, which we are also ready to make. We are waiting for an entry on the list and will be able to move on with this parliamentary work. It is a matter of amending the Construction Law in a number of areas, which I think will meet with the approval of the House. I do not want to talk about this today, because today we are only talking about this simple implementation of the regulation to the law and enforcement of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. As a general rule, we agree that this solution is not an optimal solution. It sanctions the existing state of affairs. If I understand correctly the opinion of the national institute, it is not so much against the execution of the sentence as it calls for this execution to not become something that closes this issue once and for all. There was even a suggestion to introduce a period. It seems that this is unnecessary in the sense that we are working on these laws. Both Chambers know that these works are ongoing, so we do not intend to prolong them in any way - except, of course, that it would be difficult to go to the High House asking for the support of the Act on the Profession of an Engineer or the Act on the Profession of an Architect without the support of the environment itself. This is where we are right now. In fact, it seems to me that everything you asked me, in those short words, I was able to answer. If not, I'm sorry, but I think I answered the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u301	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 44 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on subscription fees (prints 3123 and 3223). I ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I present a report on the draft law amending the Act on subscription fees, print No 3123. On 19 February 2019, the Commission examined the draft law. One amendment was tabled concerning the amount of compensation. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. Thank you. [[Well, that's nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u303	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bubula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on this bill. But let me start with this personal reflection. It is 10 years since I am a Member, and in the matter of radio-television subscription I am already speaking 15 times from the stand. On the other hand, the characteristic feature of these speeches is that regardless of who was the president of television, who was the head of the news broadcast at 7:30 p.m., I always spoke on behalf of the Law and Justice Club for public media, national media being sufficiently high and stablely funded. In this respect, Solomon's judgment is recalled here, i.e. The one where one of the mothers said to save the baby, and the other said, "Well, if it's not for me, you can kill it." So, from the point of view of the Polish state, its national goods, which are public media, I would like to say that there seems to be a completely irrational approach which makes support for the good funding of these media dependent on who is currently the head of television, who is currently the head of this power. This is the first case. Second thing. I would like to remind you that the proposed amount of compensation is not an amount entirely or exclusively intended to finance information and publicity on Polish Television. It is ninety-seven percent - it can be said with great certainty - intended to finance public radio, including 17 regional public radio stations, to finance regional centres of Polish Television, whose operating cost is the most burdensome part of the public service mission for Polish Television, as well as to finance a very large package of various cultural programs related to education, related to programmes for children, programmes for seniors, programmes for ordinary, normal civic education, as well as entertainment and sport, which I stress, because in art. 21 also these elements of the public service mission are clearly enshrined. I would like to stress that this law is in addition to the missing element of this system, i.e. to compensate for the loss resulting from the introduction into the system of numerous discounts and exemptions from subscription. This means, among other things, that only around 13% of citizens who are obliged to do so pay their subscriptions at the present time. Thus, it is perfectly normal and justified, as in other relief and waiver schemes, which function or for example. in communication, or in other areas of life, that such a system also includes State compensation. Finally, the last, perhaps the most important argument is that the cost of running public media in carrying out a very widely defined mission, which was also taken into account by the National Radio and Television Council under the leadership of Jan Dworak, which is absolutely unrelated to Law and Justice, amounts to almost PLN 3 billion a year. Therefore, the argument that compensation, which covers 2 years of exemption from the licence and which has been defined in this draft law, is a compensation too high, is absolutely incompatible with what the National Radio and Television Council, regardless of who was its chairman, calculated as the necessary costs of the public service mission. It is not true - here I also warn those arguments which are about to fall - that this amount of compensation exceeds the current licence receipts. Absolutely not, it complements the system and is not a dominant element in the functioning of public media financing. This amount, for both the previous arrangement, which was taken into account once in 2016 and the current one, covers several-year periods and not annual periods, so it should not be compared to the annual receipts from the subscription. In conclusion, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I recommend and encourage all parliamentary clubs to support this bill because [[♪ The bell ♪]] Public media are a common good, not an element connected with the functioning of political power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u305	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I should, uh, save my nerves and, uh, your time, say just one sentence: Members of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition are asking for rejection in full in the second reading of the Parliamentary bill amending the bill on subscription fees. And that would really be enough, because that's exactly what we're gonna do, but decency requires three sentences to be added. Actually, there will be questions. How much nerve do you need to have - knowing what the public television programme offer looks like, both in the field of information and publicity, and in other areas - to just so-called, because it is necessary, to transfer from the budget the amount of PLN 1260 million through Members, not the government? I would like to point out that the parliamentary projects are not subject to consultation. Because it is a parliamentary project, no one has credibly responded to us, as it is with this attention of the Sejm Analysis Office, that this project is subject to the law of the European Union and that it is incompatible with this law. Perhaps it's about public aid. They didn't answer, 'cause why? Besides, the first reading took place at night, as is usually the case in this Seym. I don't really know if that nerve could fit in those two towers of the Silver Company, because I don't think so. How many contempt for the rules, for the law, for parliamentary customs, to conduct the examination of the project so that the Members of the opposition who started screaming and started mocking are missing the committee meeting? So the authors of this brilliant project and this way of conducting committee meetings remind me that it's not about us, it's about the hundreds of thousands of our voters. Because our mandates are as important as your mandates, and our voters are as important as your voters. Mrs Bubula said that public television must be taken care of, because it is a common good. Whose common good? Laws and Justice is, all right. It's a pity you didn't want to see the material, we've even shown you how the common good works today. What's the level of journalism, what's the level of integrity, what's the level of impartiality, objectivity? Is that a common good? This is the good of the ruling party. And for a few months before the elections, 1260 million PLN is needed, because for something you need to do this campaign of spitting, defaming and manipulating. That is the only point and purpose of this project. As far as the procession is concerned, the first reading took place at night, with no answer to the basic question whether we can proceed at all. I also talked about the atmosphere of the project and how the committee president conducted the meeting. I understand she was just waiting to be put on the European Parliament's list, but that's her upset. I don't care much. It is only at this meeting that the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council gives us some comments during the examination of the project. The only thing that comes from these comments is that something needs to be changed in this project, because it is not clear. But the rule isn't touched. And you're saying this is a project that saves national interests? This is a project that destroys national goods. The national good is peace and order, and you are [[♪ The bell ♪]] Denial of all these qualities. This project is saving you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u307	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Apel, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u308	Thank you very much. High Izbo! What TVP is like, everyone can see. I don't think there's much to dwell on, 'cause everyone has an excellent opinion. It is worth recalling, however, that at the very beginning of the term of office Law and Justice announced a change in the subscription system. It was said that it would look completely different, that it would be more transparent. Perhaps it will be a Czech model, co-financed by private entities, perhaps some other model. Minister Czabański has undertaken to present such a project within a year. Have any of you ever seen a subscription project like this? But do we still have this pathological situation where the majority of the parliament decides whether the head of television will get the money or not, whether he can keep the institution or not? Believe me, if we don't change the subscription system, the president, no matter what he was, and here he is, who he is, will always depend on the majority. Public television is gonna be worse, and worse, and worse, because you guys haven't been able to prepare a project for so many years, even though you've promised many times. And what's $1,200 million? That's a lot of money. This is, for example. 200 kindergartens, over 30 kilometers of highway. It's less expensive to dig up the Vistula Mill than you want to pass on the TVP. I've also calculated how much it would take if we put this money on the 500+ program. That would mean 30 zlotys more for every child. And you'd rather hand it over to Jack Kursk than the kids who get 500+. I'm not happy about it. I'm worried about it. I'm worried about public money being wasted. Instead of setting clear rules for independent subscription for public television... Because we all agree that public television has to be funded because it's carrying out the mission. Independent public television on politics, on the annual decision of the Sejm majority. After all, it is sick that every year the majority of the Sejm decides: you will live or die, you will have money to function or you will not. So we have an absolute political dependence, on the parliamentary majority, on the parliament. I'm gonna drop the public consultation thing because it's actually a scandal, but I think it's been repeated a few times a year. You can say you can get used to it - you can't get used to it. One cannot get used to such treatment of parliamentarianism, treating democracy as merely and excluding the tool to achieve its own goals, its own political goals, good results. I have been terrified since I was here in Parliament that the most important thing for politicians is to survive until the next term, to win the next term, not the welfare of citizens, not the welfare of public television, but to survive and win the next term. Winning is not an end in itself, the goal in itself is serving citizens and working for them, serving citizens through good public media, which are clearly separated from power, from the majority who know what they can expect next year, what income they can expect, and not: this year 900 million, in the next 1200 million, or maybe there will be 2 billion, or maybe 0.5, you will have, dear president, from which you will pay your salaries, or maybe you won't. We'll see if you'll be good, effective - it's absolutely... I can't believe we're standing so calmly and accepting the pathological system that's being proposed. For so many years, Law and Justice have done nothing about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u309	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Kaminski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u310	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is a very important day: the dark people know the price at which they buy everything. The famous words of Jack Kurski, present president of television, which are an excellent illustration of the political philosophy of both public television and this power camp, which today devastates our beloved homeland. The dark people will buy everything. Today, the dark people, that is, we Poles, know the price for which we must buy this darkness, the most expensive in history, the darkness pushed into Poles. 1260 million PLN, which we are to pay out of Polish taxpayers' pockets for these hideous fanaberies, which 24 hours a day on several channels of public television are at the expense of law, justice and decency. Today we found out, actually yesterday we found out in spite of our will, half-faced by the National Radio and Television Council, that it was over 1,200 million PLN that was still not enough. There's already been talk of 2 billion zlotys on this fanaber. And where does this defect really come from? This loss is due to the fact that people in Poland - as in the East Germans voted their legs, fleeing to Germany - vote as a TV pilot and with disgust switch to all other channels so as not to watch these seances of lies and hatred, which serve so-called. public television. Today, Jacek Kurski, president of public television, has, to be honest, exceptional comfort for the president of any public and non-public television, because these people always wonder what their target group is trying to investigate it, and Jacek Kurski has this comfort that he has only one viewer he needs to satisfy and whose dark sides of character he needs to satisfy. This one spectator living in one of Warsaw's districts will show whether Jacek Kurski will still be president of TV I don't know if he's gonna be okay. So Jacek Kurski feeds his only viewer what he expects: hatred for his political opponents and, above all, not telling the truth. That's why you want to have public television, that one thing you're most afraid of is the truth about yourselves. You fear that this hypocrisy, which is already the name of your party: Law and Justice - the most hypocritical name of the party in history... You're afraid of the truth, and that's why you have to lie. I would like to say that this issue concerns not only the media structure itself, not just journalistic ethics, but today speaking about journalistic ethics is laughing in the face of what they do so-called. journalists, so-called public television. The essence of democracy is not only the process of counting votes. It should be fair to say that the process of fair counting in Poland is not at risk, there are too many of us, there are too many electoral committees that could lead to technical forgery of elections. The essence of democracy is the access of citizens to the truth, because only then does this technical process, which is voting, make sense: if all participants in this process make an informed decision based on truth and not on lies. Therefore, what is happening today on public television and public radio is not only a denial of decency, it is an attempt on the essence of freedom, on the essence of democracy. [[Applause]] Therefore, we will vote against this law, we will vote against it, because we are not a dark people, and as someone said, the sacrifice of every war is above all the truth. You have caused a cold civil war in Poland, praise God cold, but civil war In this war there is a sacrifice and there is an aggressor, the majority of Poles who do not want PiS is the victim of this predatory minority that you represent and who eats lies, hatred and lack of elementary decency in public discussion. That's why we're going to vote against. And that's why this great task, which stands before the opposition, is not just to defeat you in the election, which is getting closer and closer. First you'll have to be defeated, and then you'll have to put an end to this horrible argument that you've caused, this horrible pit, which every day you're also digging between your brothers on public television. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and sisters of Poles. We'll beat the PiS, we'll reunite the Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u311	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, in today's debate, we could repeat the arguments we used at the previous session of the Sejm when we first read this, I would say, a truly outrageous project. However, in her speech on behalf of the PiS Club, Mrs Bubula said that we have media, which are a common good, a national good, called these media public media and justified the need to support them from the state budget. And what do the media say about this? journalists themselves, people who are responsible for reliable communication of information, honest information for Poles who have their own organization, the Association of Polish Journalists, and this one has already appointed a Council of Media Ethics 14 years ago? Well, the Council of Media Ethics, i.e. it was on behalf of a well-known journalistic community, stated clearly that the authors of the publication - I will now refer to this tragic event, which was the death of President Paweł Adamowicz - manipulated facts, suggestions and presumptions, and the person who was the subject of these attacks, these manipulations, i.e. President Adamowicz, was not given a chance to defend, was not given a chance to confront these allegations, there was no chance that he could defend his good name in the theoretically public media. I therefore believe somewhat differently from Mrs Katarasińska, who in turn said that the public media under the PiS regime, and especially under the direction of Jack Kurski, ceased to be national goods and became the good of Law and Justice. They are not the good of Law and Justice, they have become a brutal, blunt tool to fight the truth, with integrity and integrity. Once again, I will remind you of the words that Jacek Kurski said, including the position of President of Polish Television. He said that with his reign in Voronica, they would meet the standards of the British television station, actually a pattern of integrity and integrity, the BBC. But for more than 3 years we have no doubt that, with the beginning of these governments, together with the change of composition, and especially the public and information programs in the Polish Television, the reliability and honesty that are so close and so closely connected with the BBC brand, with the embarrassment of Woronicz and the Warsaw Uprising Square left and probably until Jacek Kurski or another nominate sits there, they will never return. 1260 million PLN this is a huge amount, that is the amount - once again I will remind - about satisfying the basic needs reported last year by the protesters of the disabled and their carers, when they demanded charity from the Polish state, from the government of PiS and this charity they did not see. Jacek Kurski will receive the amount that would satisfy and satisfy their needs. PLN 1260 million is 30% of the amount that has been allocated to the budget for this year... is the amount by which the National Health Fund has increased its funding for the treatment of fatal diseases such as oncology. The government of Mateusz Morawiecki allocated PLN 4 billion to increase expenditure on health care, for medical treatment, and PLN 1260 million for TV Jack Kurski, which will become history as television strips of lies, manipulation strips, propaganda strips and information, which is propaganda, which is a lie that is placed on these red stripes on TVP Info, which are just embarrassing stripes of shame. And one last thing, because from this I started speaking at first reading, that this project, in our opinion, in the modern club's opinion, is against European Union law. At the meeting of the cultural committee two days ago, this was confirmed by a representative of the Legislative Office. Once again, at the request of the PiS, we're pushing the bill with our knees, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is incompatible with European Union law, will be called into question and compensation will have to be paid, not just to repay this amount of more than PLN 1 billion to public aid prohibited in the European Union. Therefore, once again, on behalf of the Modern Club, I apply for the rejection of this bill at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u313	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Richard Petru, the Circle of Members now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the last 3 years we have paid PLN 2 billion to PiS TV as taxpayers. This is PLN 860 million as compensation for the proceeds from the subscription, 800 million - from the Reprivatization Fund, and there were bonds. So far, the PiS TV has been co-financed. For this, you can build 75 schools or 165 kindergartens or more than 300 km of tram lines. In the age of the Internet, it is completely outdated to pay a television charge. The subscription in Poland is paid mainly by pensioners, because the easiest of them is to download this subscription. The television subscription today does not fulfil its function at all. The idea of public television, and even more the public media mission, of course, is still valid, but in the release of the PiS TV it has turned into a purely party mission. And the PiS unfortunately, with the help of the president of public television, Jack Kurski proved that television could be the source of evil, manipulation, hatred and lies. And that's what all of us taxpayers pay for every day. Let me remind you: public television on the day of President Adamowicz's death issued disgusting material about him. But interestingly enough, in 2018 public television in this case, negatively related to it, President Adamowicz broadcasted 1800 times on television programmes of various kinds, i.e. on average five times a day. That is why we are in favour of completely abolishing the RTV licence and privatising public television. Look, public television will never be able to rebuild its credibility after what Jacek Kurski did. Public television must therefore be privatised. But the public mission should continue through tenders that will allow all media meeting the criteria for access to the general public. I am talking about both terrestrial, satellite, cable, radio and Internet networks. As a result, tenders for educational, cultural, historical, publicist missions, etc. would be drawn up. And the winner would be the one who had the best offer. And we wouldn't have to finance that colossus on clay legs, which is TVP. Therefore, I do not see the point of financing almost PLN 1.3 billion of unprofitable and propagandising television. And let me remind you that there was no money for disabled people, no money for teacher raises, no money for nurses, but, as you can see, television propaganda money is. The question is, one can say, a kind of philosophical or Poles who watch public television are more nice to each other, are less aggressive or have more knowledge of the surrounding world. We know very well that not that for this 1300 million PLN public television will not inform, will not educate. Our money will continue the impudent propaganda of PiS-owska, breaking reality. It will be an action to fight Poles to create ditches to actually divide Poland in half so that duopol can be formed so that it can vote either for the PiS or for the anti-PiS. Ladies and gentlemen, on public television, there is a huge mismanagement of resources, and really, after winning the elections, a huge audit will have to be done in this institution. But let's get down to the ground and see what the world looks like. In recent years, a million viewers have turned off their TVs at all, no more watching TV. I'm talking about young people. They don't use anything like a TV. There's more and more information on the Internet. Therefore, the idea of subscription is outdated, public television has lost its meaning. And once again, I stress: the solution is privatisation of public television, termination of subscription and execution of public service missions through tenders. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u315	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How is Poland's Television different from commercial television? Practically nothing - it gives advertisements the same way, it also makes money on these advertisements - except that when it shows programs that are not interesting to anyone, it can ask Parliament for funding, and this funding, as it probably will today, will get. The mission of public television should also be to support Polish sport. Does TV Poland support sport? No, he supports commercial sports, such as football, ski jumping. Please remember that in Poland people are also interested in other sports, not just those we see on cable TV every day. It would be very good for Poland's Television to actually support sport, which is an Olympic sport and not a commercial sport. Thanks to the possibility that he would be able to be on Polish television, he would have the chance to find sponsors and reach [[♪ The bell ♪]] to a wider audience. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u317	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Adam Korol, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u318	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, as if continuing what Mr Ziółkowski started talking about, have a question to ask the Minister: Will television, which will receive such a huge injection of cash, change its behaviour a little bit when it comes to less popular sports, the disciplines we are talking about only in the context of the Olympic Games, which I will remind you are coming up with big steps? And will he change his approach to this? How's it going so far? These disciplines, which, as we say all the time, are less popular, for the departure of television crews must pay, must also pay for the fact that the material from the start of Polish athletes, athletes who appear with an eagle on their breasts, represent Poland, has been broadcast on TV. I have this question: Will this situation change? Or in the case of any discipline [[♪ The bell ♪]] Going to a very important international competition will have a chance of a team going with them and that such material will be broadcast later? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u319	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u320	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! True, you must have incredible nerve to ask the Sejm for another tranche of giant money, 1300 million in the sea of needs that Poles have today. How great is the sum, ladies and gentlemen, is shown by Jerzy Owsiak. During 27 years of running the largest charity campaign in the world, for 27 years around the world he collected PLN 1 billion. How much good he did, we see every day in Polish health care institutions. [[Applause]] You don't care about anyone or anything here. You're filling an institution that's only known, ladies and gentlemen, for its hate speech, and it's a typical propaganda radio station called PiS, a radio station, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm going to repeat that word because television has nothing to do with it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u321	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Mrs Margaret... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Excuse me. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u322	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is absolutely appalling because it concerns the money of all of us. More than PLN 1300 million are spent on propaganda, while today we are also discussing important health problems, important social problems. Let me remind you that for 3 years you have rejected the amendment concerning the National Alzheimer's Programme, it is about PLN 10 million. On the same day, you grant 1300 million to hateful propaganda based on a lie that leads to tragedy. You have no money to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on persons with disabilities and their guardians. This is another money that should be spent by you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's all so immoral that I'm surprised this is happening. I'm surprised you were able to make such an offer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u323	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u324	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! At the last committee meeting, where we discussed 1260 million grants, Mr. Chairman of the National Council was kind to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is actually not enough because they need more. Dear President, that was simply indecent. For our money, Poles, public television, PiS-owska is actually a tool of political manipulation on a huge scale, it is a tool of propaganda. Are you surprised that Poles do not want to pay a subscription for such television, which actually misses the truth every day? You give false information by lying to Poles. Therefore, they simply stop paying. What are you surprised about? I'd like to ask you where you're going to get $1,260 million. Who are you gonna take? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last year, Ms Beata Szydło handed over 800 million from the reprivatisation fund, although it was intended to pay compensation for nationalisation after 1945. Of course, the money's back. Where do you want that money from? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u325	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The budget was completed less than a month ago. During the course of the work, the government did not submit any proposals concerning the financing of the Polish Television. Also, the group of Members, who is the author of this fantastic project, has not tabled any amendments. It could be explained, systematized, analyzed. That would be clear. And suddenly, in such a short time, there was a request for funding of the Polish Television in the amount of PLN 1300 million. What happened? Is this the attention of the party governing public finances, the money of all Poles? Why is the Ministry of Culture, the Minister, passively looking at the manipulations and lies, as well as the propaganda of Polish Television? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u327	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u328	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Are TV and radio public? I would ask you to intervene in the following case. It is a situation without precedent that took place on the Polish Radio Rzeszów. The radio president filed a report to the D.A.'s office on his radio journalist. He punished her with a reprimand and removed her from conducting live public and information programs because she broadcasted two previously recorded opinions about President Duda: positive and critical. In a critical listener of Polish Radio Rzeszów he called President Duda a figureman and a person acting as President. It was supposedly insulting the president. Of course, the D.A.'s office refused to initiate proceedings. I believe that punishing a journalist for issuing a voice critical of authority, which is basically within the scope of legitimate criticism, should never happen in a democratic state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The money we gave: 1 billion PLN of loan, 860 million last year. This year 1260 million in budget amendment, support from companies of the State Treasury. You just don't have the shame of robbing people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u329	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by asking you how not ashamed you are, because this is probably the basic question we should ask, because such a dirty project as the one we are talking about, which is aimed at pulling 1,300 million PLN out of the Polish taxpayer's pocket for propaganda into the so-called. public television. It's just indecency and we have to talk about it here. Do you know that there are multiple initiatives, ideas about how to eliminate the offer of public television on digital platforms at all, questions about whether it is possible for digital platform users not to pay such a subscription because they do not want to pay it, do not want to have so-called in their offer at all. public television? There's a whole bunch of initiatives like that. As we all know, as we have determined, the one who has the majority simply pays for TV, but it hasn't been so bad yet. We observe a total lack of credibility, falling popularity poles in relation to the so-called. public television. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have to do something about it. It can't go on like this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u331	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jacek World, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On Monday, I watched a show moved from Krakow at the Television Theatre. Three weeks ago, I was watching a great show called "Wedding." Tomorrow we'll be watching our excellent jumpers, and soon they'll be 35. The Hall European Championship in Athletics. You want to take all this away? Tell me openly that you want to take this program offer away. [[No, it's not.]] [[Voice from the room: News.]] A simple question arises: What percentage of broadcasting time and costs do public television cover information programs? [[Propaganda. There is no information - there is propaganda.]] This money will go primarily on a mission, on what you want to take and what you have taken, and today, with these crocodiles tearing over the information programs, remember what they were under your party camera Julius Braun. You should be ashamed of yourselves today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u333	Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u334	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know if after all the TVP performances under Jack Kurski, we can still talk about public television. Under your rule, the public media have turned into a party group that confiscates and defames all opponents of the current power. 1260 million PLN - what will the money go for? Certainly not on a mission, sir. This money will go back to maintaining propaganda from the Polish Television. Instead of sponsoring the PiS media, let's give this money to teachers who, unlike public media, have a sense of mission. As Professor Bartoszewski used to say, it is worth being decent, and with decency this television has nothing to do with it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u335	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u336	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is hard not to get the impression that Polish Television breaks the law every day from 3 years of the rule of law and justice. The statements of the type: The coalition of PO - PSL was stealing from Poles, the Senator accepted bribery, the President of Warsaw hid the cantons of his officials, and the judge's accompaniment was corrupt. There are no final judgments, and the decisions are offered by TVP Info's guides and guests every day. Complaints about this state of affairs are treated as an unlawful attack, and the prosecution does not intend to take any action against authors even the most offensive statements. Minister! The official states also that this is a counterweight to TVN and the election, except that they act within the legal limits and for their own means. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you reaching for money from taxpayers' pockets? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u337	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u338	Thank you very much. Minister! I have a very specific question: At what stage is work on changing the subscription system? Why? Who's working on it? Who's on this case? Who is really guilty of the fact that for so many years, despite numerous announcements, including you, this change in the subscription system does not exist? There is no reform of the public television financing system. That's one question. Second question. The issue of spending and control over spending money. If we're going to finance disco polo concerts five times with this money, thank you very much. I don't want two's New Year's Eve or whatever it's called, repeated at least 10 times, to be financed by money that can finance better things, for example. additional PLN 30 for each child for which the benefit of 500+ is collected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u339	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Mordak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For the collection of the XX Czartoryski Foundation from the state budget we spent 1/3 of this sum, which you plan to allocate to public television. This collection consisted of buildings, a dam with a group of 86 thousand. museum objects and 250,000. library objects. Do you think what we get from public television is worth three times as much as the Czartoryski collection? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u341	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask whether there is more important needs in the country, whether it is better to support pensioners, people with disabilities or our farmers who are still underfunded and are taking protest action. Is this money supposed to go to party clubs? The Sovereign would like to watch and listen to objective media. Will the money of this amount also be earmarked for party conventions? The parties still have huge subsidies from the state budget. And the convention of our Kukiz movement15, whose members in their spare time came to Warsaw for their money, TV Poland showed, of horror, in 7 seconds. Where is objectivity and where is equality between citizens? On the other hand, the sovereign pays for all this, who should receive reliable information, not political propaganda. But that's what the predecessors did, that's what the current authorities do, so let's not be surprised. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's meant to serve the community, the sovereign. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u343	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I invite you to the speaker to ask the question of Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u344	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, this is a discussion that you should hear. From your taxes, from your pocket is to be allocated to PiS TV 1260 million PLN. I have a proposal that I am sending to the Minister because I think Poles are very interested in whether it is the best money spent. Because it's not PiS money, it's the money of all citizens, including those who don't watch this TV, which is a hate show. Perhaps the Minister would ask Poles if they wished that this amount of PLN 1,200 million was allocated to PiS propaganda, or whether they wished to do so, for example. for increases for teachers or for cases involving resident doctors or nurses who starved for a month because none of the government wanted to meet them? This TV, what you've done with it over the last three years, it's a great disgrace. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But, ladies and gentlemen, you're the ones who pay for all this from your own taxes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u345	Thank you. And I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, to ask another question. [[Good morning, Marshal.]] Good morning. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u346	Minister! High Izbo! I want to remind you of something, Minister. Well, two years ago, the Polish People's Party filed a bill abolishing the subscription. The country in the first thought you wanted to reject, you filed a motion, [[Applause]] But then you realized that the anger of the people was very great and you quickly withdrew from that conclusion. From time to time you say, "Yes, we'll take it, we'll reform it." People are waiting for this, people don't want to pay their subscription. We have proposed voluntaryity in this proposal: if anybody wants, let them pay. But why force people who don't want to pay? You know that very well. Isn't it time to reach out to this project? He's on the committee where he was sent. People are waiting for you when you get this done. You were in favour of this proposal at this legislative stage, and now you don't know what to do about it. You just have to keep going, you have to cancel your subscription, and that's the best way to do it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u347	Thank you very much. I invite you to ask the last question at this point by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What I'm trying to say is that paying a subscription to public television is personally insulting me because public television insults my intelligence, insults the intelligence of my fellow citizens, and I pay because I want to be legal. I hear you're preparing solutions that allow people to choose. Then make sure people have a choice. about what they want to pay for. For this show that... There are no words offensive enough to determine what public television is at the moment. I stayed in a place where for seven days I was sentenced to one public television channel: TVP Polonia. Two information in an information program about something - maybe sports, maybe - and then some selected names and driving around these people all the time. The next day in reverse order. That's the kind of show that goes into the world. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is Poland's card. Shame! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u349	Thank you. I ask you to answer this question and to the earlier questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u350	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, Two specific questions were addressed to the Minister of Culture. The first question is the question of Mr Adam Korol whether there is a chance for more sport on TVP to be more niche, less popular than those most popular sports. As I am unable to answer this question, I will ask the President of Public Television to answer this question. The second question was asked by Mr Piotr Appeal. At what stage is the change in the system of maintaining public media, or is there a concept work on a new model of maintaining public media? This is what I do in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Deputy Minister Paweł Lewandowski, who I am replacing today because of his illness. This question will also be answered in writing by the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The applause isn't good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u351	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 45 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws (prints No 3202 and 3242). Mr Zbigniew Dolata will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. These are printers 3202 and 3242 respectively. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered the above-mentioned draft law at its meeting today, 21 February, and asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft. At the same time, I wanted to inform the High House that, during the committee meeting, it had been submitted to the Rule. 5th one amendment, which provides for a longer vacathio legis. The amendment was not supported by the committee and was tabled as a minority request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u353	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. [[Applause]] Mr President, I understand that this is a round of applause for me, but I haven't finished yet. [[For you, Marshal.]] I therefore invite Mr Zbigniew Dolata to present the position of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. [[Applause]] [[Marshal, I repeat.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u354	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I took this applause as a round of applause for me, but perhaps they were for you marshals and for me at the same time. [[They were so thunderous, they'd share.]] Yes, it was a turbulent ovation. High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 I would like to announce to the High House that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the draft law at third reading. We will support it because we recognise that any legislation that facilitates farmers, micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises active in the agri-food processing sector should be supported in their efforts to raise external resources. At the same time, we are aware that this bill is a pilot project. It will have some relevance for the RDP for the years 2014 and 2020. According to estimates by the Ministry of Agriculture, the beneficiaries of this scheme will be around. $20,000. Whether it's much or little, you can judge it differently. Surely it is important to create such an opportunity. I think that the project will be even more important in the context of the RDP for the next funding period. I believe that checking this mechanism in a particular activity will have a positive impact on the development of agriculture and agri-food processing. I was surprised to see the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, which requested that the project be rejected at first reading. [[That was yesterday.]] Fortunately, this request was not supported by the High House. I think that after today's agricultural committee meeting, the Platform has slightly modified its position. At least I hope so. On her side, there was only an amendment aimed at extending the vacathio legis. I consider it unnecessary because I think that the sooner the rules come into force, the sooner the institutions that have come into force in the draft law and will carry out these tasks, and the beneficiaries will have the opportunity to prepare themselves for the use of these financial instruments. These are guarantee instruments. In short, beneficiaries will be able to apply for preferential loans for their own contribution for various types of investments in which they will apply for external funds. I am very pleased that the platform club's position was isolated, and the other parliamentary clubs, of course, with some reservations, generally considered the adoption of this law to be reasonable. I think the High House will support this project during the third reading. It is a project that farmers and entrepreneurs are waiting for. This is a mechanism known from other activities, but a new one, in terms of RDPs for the years 2014 and 2020. As I said, this is a necessary mechanism to increase the availability of external funds for investment financing and speed up [[♪ The bell ♪]] economic development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u355	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, to present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u356	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Mr Dolata! You don't have to care so much about the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition club. We'll be fine without your attention. The government project, which is being discussed in the High House, is primarily aimed at moving away from the grant in exchange for bank guarantees. This is a new product, a new proposal. According to the designer, these bank guarantees are to be issued by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. I will remind you that until now the guarantee has been provided by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Minister! We would like to know the arguments why you want Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, a large state bank, to operate and issue appropriate financial instruments for certain tasks. We also wanted to point out that in 2017, i.e. 2 years ago, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture did not provide any guarantees due to the fact that there were no requests from borrowers. That means this mechanism is difficult. And it will become even more difficult when used by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. [[It just confirms that the project is needed.]] To illustrate, I would like to say to the High House that since 1994, and therefore for almost 15 years, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture has provided 202 bank guarantees for a total amount of PLN 56 million. That's a lot to think about, too. Did the Ministry of Agriculture analyze these issues, this mechanism, why this is happening? Is it right for farmers who reject this mechanism? Because we really think he's unattractive and very difficult, and that's why we don't accept him. But we will be very grateful if the Minister presents us with such an in-depth analysis. [[More faith in farmers and entrepreneurs.]] [[And the banking system.]] In our view, this mechanism - and probably practice will show - will be unacceptable by farmers. We learn from the draft law that we will have 50 million euros as part of this pilotage until 2023. On the other hand, we would like to know how much of this overall amount will be allocated to the bank to handle this mechanism. How many million euros is this? After all, we realize that all this will cost, and farmers themselves will pay for it, not anyone else, but farmers. On the other hand, I would also like to ask an interesting question, namely: Will only the managing authority benefit from the funds that are in the Rural Development Programme in this perspective and in the next one, or will other measures be used for the implementation of this mechanism, for example budgetary ones? If so, then of course, the question is: From what sources will they come? An important issue that is also worth mentioning is the issue of the system of crediting projects in agriculture in the context of natural disasters or investments. We would like to ask the Minister: How many investment and banking loans were granted in 2018, when we had a huge drought? After all, we know that this system is also preferential, with a subsidy for interest on loans from the state budget. On this occasion I will also mention interesting information, which was presented in the regulation of the Minister of Finance, which defines the competences of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Because the committees appointed by the voivods estimated the losses resulting from the drought last year at PLN 8.5 billion. Let us assume that from the state budget compensation was paid at the level of approx. PLN 2 billion. Minister, we'd like to know what's going on with the rest of the money and the other conclusions. My club still feels that this project is not beneficial for farmers and entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In our view, this project could be implemented together with a new financial perspective based on a clear and mandatory - that is important - European Union legislation. Today, this is our initiative, which is adapted as an alternative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u357	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, the Kukiz Club15, to present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u358	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz15 clubs, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 The aim of the project is to address the problem of difficult access for farmers to external sources of finance, resulting in difficulties in the implementation of investments, slowing down their implementation or liquidity disruption. Each of us is well aware that investing is the basis for the development of any economic activity. It's no different in agriculture. Money is necessary for the purchase of certified seed, plant protection products, animals, machinery or modernisation of livestock buildings. Unfortunately, according to the Ministry, the financial deficit needed for investments in the countryside today amounts to about PLN 11 billion. Farmers are extremely entrepreneurial people and are well aware of what to invest in to earn. However, the problem is that many farmers have no way of obtaining this money. Farmers are waiting for support in the implementation of the planned initiatives, waiting for measures to help them do so. The Ministry spends only EUR 50 million on the correction of the external budget deficit, which is a drop in the sea of needs. At the same time, I have no illusions that the entire amount will be allocated to aid to farmers. The commission will be taken by commercial banks, as well as the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, who has been involved in the operation of the mechanism for incomprehensible reasons for me, because we have The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, i.e. an institution working closely with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, which implements instruments co-financed from the European Union budget and from national funds and which employs more than 10 000. persons. The question arises: Isn't this a strengthening of banks? I am therefore concerned that the solution envisaged in this project today, although it is moving in the right direction, due to the too small scale, the complexity of the rules and the involvement of unnecessary actors, will not bring the desired results. Further in-depth analysis of the problem and implementation of complementary, comprehensive measures are needed to support the development of Polish agricultural holdings. To conclude, I would like to say that, in accordance with the Minister's words, this project is a pilot, new financial instrument of Polish agriculture, so I will recommend to the members of the Kukiz club15 support of this project. Contrary to the concerns of my previous speaker, I believe that we should reach for new instruments, not wait for what the Union is telling us to do and what instruments to use. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u359	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, to present his position.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, we should not experiment, we should not question the things already tested, nor should we create unnecessary beings that will create additional costs. It is important to take advantage of the experience so far. Agricultural resources are needed, and they are large resources. We should concentrate and today the most important thing for the government is to negotiate good conditions for farmers in the future financial perspective, because this is not very interesting... [[We can do this. We can do this.]] It's probably gonna be a problem for everyone else. This is the most important thing at the moment, not the destruction of what has already been verified, because in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture under your direction, a team has been mentioned, the management in every district department, and actually you are overseeing it at the moment, because, as you say, it didn't work before. Then why are you changing it right now? We, as the club of the Polish People's Party, will express our position in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u361	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, to present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u362	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending the law on support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 and some other laws introduces guarantees for loans that farmers and micro and small enterprises in the agri-food processing sector will be able to benefit from. At this moment, funds from the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 shall be granted in the form of grants which require own contribution and, in the form of non-refundable premiums. On the other hand, the project introduces a reverse financial instrument. As the government confirms, money for agriculture from the EU budget after 2020 will be smaller for Poland, which will result in increasing obstacles to obtaining grants. Therefore, the return on financial instruments, i.e. loans, should be more accessible. RDP loans are more favourable than ordinary loans, but these are still further steps to increase debt among farmers. In accordance with the arrangements with the European Commission, the revision of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 concerning new forms of allocation of funds, such as returnable financial instruments, also requires changes in national law. As a result of these agreements, we are proceeding today on this project. However, it is important to consider how decisions made today will affect the debt of farmers in Poland. According to the National Debt Register of the Economic Information Office, the debt in the agricultural sector amounts to PLN 412 million and the average debt of the farmer is PLN 49 000. zł. The instability of the agricultural sector and the resulting problems faced by indebted farmers are mainly due to drought, low buying-in prices for certain products, long waiting times for payment of processed products and, of course, African swine fever problems. Within the framework of the Rural Development Programme, the possibility for a farmer to apply for a loan covered by a guarantee from a financial instrument is to be created. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego is to secure loans to farmers who want to invest but who do not have their own collateral through agreements with banks lending farmers. Nevertheless, it aims to reduce subsidies while increasing debt. This is certainly not an arrangement which alone represents benefits for farmers. In order for this system to work in the longer term, it is necessary to support farmers more than previously in tackling the problems caused by weather disasters, other unforeseen external factors. As we know at this moment, this is not very successful, especially with African swine fever, we all know that this is a serious disaster. The government project should go through the public consultation process, and in this case the process was missing. Do we know what farmers think about this? No, because they will be faced with the fact that, in this case, the government did not even intend to know the opinions of farmers and entrepreneurs, because decisions were already made at the stage of consultation and agreement with the European Commission. The amendment to the 14-day vacathio legis was rejected at the committee meeting. This haste indicates that the government is aware of the dissatisfaction that farmers may have had over the long term to give up subsidies and credit bonuses. We still have a few more votes to vote on, and we still need to think about it. Of course, this project has advantages. We don't have a choice either. We need to think about it and we will decide during the vote on support for this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u363	Thank you, Member. Would any of your fellow Members still like to join the list of people who want to ask a question at this point? I can't see. So I close the list. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński to ask the first question. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u364	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In my opinion, this solution is indeed late and insufficient. In fact, this perspective ends, and we're starting to experiment. Pilotage. It's hard to tell if he'll bring any relevant information in the case of such a small scale. A few questions. We need to take this 50 million out of some other activities of the RDP. What actions will this 50 million come from? That's the first question. Second question. Is there really no possibility of applying for credit guarantees in the market? In my opinion, such opportunities are not lacking. So I would like to ask you what your proposal is better than what is already available. How about some parameters? If there is less collateral for the loan, even a mortgage, if the loan guarantees are applied? How much will this instrument actually be attractive to the assumed [[♪ The bell ♪]] beneficiaries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u365	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15, to ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u366	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a few questions. Firstly, why do we use Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, not the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, as such an intermediary tool? There are a lot of people employed there. It was very well received by farmers online submission of payment applications. Well, that worked out. We've significantly relieved the agency's employees. They couldn't be fired, just get new jobs. Second question. Why do we need these costs, funds given to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for this mediation? Is there any mechanism to limit the interest rate on commercial banks? The point is, it doesn't turn out that a lot of this money is commercial banks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] take over as part of their various tools. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u367	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question at this point. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Recent years, especially last year, have highlighted a very serious and growing problem related to the lack of drinking water in the countryside. Many villages that do not have waterworks had a very serious problem with securing water not only for humans but also for livestock. However, this bill does not provide for the financing of any investments related to the construction of waterworks, wells or retention tanks. This problem is growing. I have these questions: Why has this problem not been noticed? Does the Ministry of Agriculture have any idea how to help local governments and farmers to solve this growing problem of Polish villages? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u369	This and previous questions will be answered by Mr Ryszard Zarudzki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all your questions and raised doubts. I'd like to refer to them. First of all, I would like to say that, in accordance with the European Union's rules under the Rural Development Programme, two systems for the transfer of funds to farmers are possible. The first is a non-refundable grant system and the second is a feedback system. This is allowed under European Union law and so far not practiced. He was just the first one, and the second one we're trying to run, just like a number of countries that said... And here's the argument. Please bear in mind that we have been members of the Union for 14 years. Please note that in the following periods, farmers have been receiving grants in certain amounts, they do it all the time, and we have reached the point where, under the Rural Development Programme, they can no longer benefit from support, either because the limit has been exhausted for the years 2014 and 2020 or we have so many beneficiaries, and we want to distribute this money fairly among all so that it can benefit as much as possible. Therefore, there is a moment during the entire programme, that there is a whole group of beneficiaries who cannot benefit from the grant, and a new mechanism needs to be created. This is a very rational approach, including the farmers. That's one thing. Secondly, there is a whole group of beneficiaries, farmers from the so-called. large farms that cannot benefit from the Rural Development Programme and need capital for development. We address this mechanism to them, too. I think that in the case of piloting, when we are talking about a very limited number, this rating is as rational as possible. It's an argument. There were also questions about commitment, about why BGK and not the restructuring agency. Maybe it's about why Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego first. It is because it has extensive experience as an entity implementing financial instruments within the framework of cohesion policy programmes - operational programmes - smart development or digital Poland. I think that Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego has the appropriate technical infrastructure, which we can adopt at the start, is an effective bank when it comes to distributing such mechanisms. [[Applause]] This will also be possible without additional organisational costs, in addition to certain minimum requirements - I will immediately say - provided for by EU legislation. This is the minimum level - 4% as regards the cost of handling this part of the repayable instrument. The new form of support will be launched as efficiently as possible, which is important due to the remaining time to settle the 2014-2020 development programme. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will ensure effective implementation of the financial instruments of the RDP due to amounts, reliability, A- rating in the financial sector as well as as as as a public development bank. This means that banks cooperating with BGK bear lower costs for the creation of mandatory provisions for the provision of loans or capital requirements, which will translate into large-scale loans to final recipients of support under the Rural Development Programme. The above arguments are reflected in the proposal submitted to the European Commission in December 2018 to amend the programme accordingly by identifying a specific implementation option, entrusting the implementation of the instruments by direct award of a public contract to a bank or public institution established as legal entities carrying out a professional financial activity. These are basic data on why Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. As regards the selection of restructuring agencies, the Agency does not primarily have a professional financial institution as an implementing entity. This is a professional institution, but we're talking about financial instruments. As far as funding is concerned, this makes it impossible to use the portfolio guarantee mechanism because new jobs would have to be created. In a moment I would hear: so many jobs, so much commitment, and here the tasks are not carried out. I can already hear these arguments about the situation when the agency is the realist of this mechanism. And the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as a paying agency has other tasks defined by Union legislation - we believe - tasks in the institutional system of implementation, for example, of the development programme, which includes, among others, the development programme. control of bodies implementing financial instruments - i.e. it will be a control body - and the proper implementation of the support provided. It seems to me that this is rationally managed, and I think this argument as to whether BGK or the restructuring agency is prejudicing. I would also like to say that as far as the possibilities to support financial instruments are concerned, these are farmers and processors of small, medium, small, medium and large enterprises. But it is also important to remember that it is possible to purchase funds that are not possible under the eligible grant costs. This is also a very attractive mechanism. Let's give them a chance to exist. Let's give them a chance to check it out. Big scale or small scale? Let me say this - in order to implement something, we need to have some experience. And in this period, in the years 2014-2020, 3 years of implementation of the Rural Development Programme fully confirm us that this is the moment - we have been working on this since 2016 - such an optimal moment that we are in the middle of implementing this, after some quite serious implementation of the programme, and it is worth initiating, inspiring farmers, those in need, those who have investment needs and lack capital. As regards the questions that are addressed here, other questions, I will say that we are also responding to the expectations and I think that the country's implementation of financial instruments is a good time to negotiate with the European Commission, because we are showing different funding opportunities, and we are not excluding those which concern return instruments. That's first of all. And second of all, I'm paying attention on a scale. At PLN 200 million, at PLN 58 billion from the development programme, and now these millions still leverage EUR 258 million. I think that this does not fill the investment gap that we are talking about, but this investment gap, in my opinion, must also be covered systematically. Otherwise, it's impossible. We see how big the needs are when it comes to the competitiveness of Polish agriculture, the development of processing. This only shows the scale of needs, and the money we have, with our fragmentation of agriculture, with needs, is used as far as possible. I am convinced that this mechanism is not late and that this mechanism we are implementing will create a friendly attitude for farmers, as confirmed by the monitoring committee. Because as far as consultations are concerned, I would like to point out that it is in a new formula, also previously planned, a very wide monitoring committee. There is no better thematic body for me on the level of representativeness of different environments such as the monitoring committee of the Rural Development Programme. Of course, there are still meetings with farmers, and there are still voices which result from different stages of implementation and lack of access to solutions for certain farms. I think that all of this is that we have this mechanism thought out, and the small scale gives absolutely here a sense of security, that we are practicing something that we will later be able to use effectively. Let me give you one example. By implementing some new solutions as in the current Rural Development Programme, action: Cooperation, we did piloting, and already in the second solution, which was the second call for action: Cooperation, we extended short chains, we created various thematic actions where what is most important for us - progress and transfer of knowledge and innovation... Everyone has learned, and even those who have fallen off in the pilotage, I think they are very well prepared to continue in the second approach. And these pilot experiences also confirm here the purpose of preparation and our work. So that when it comes to... Let's wait, let's give the mechanism a chance to function, and we can all evaluate it properly. I am convinced that the tasks taken are correct. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u371	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted a report on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project... [[That's not it, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Fuel, fuel.]] They will, they will, I just need to read the message. [[Oh, we're scared.]] ...signed in Katowice on 11 December 2018, print number 3240. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 46 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production (prints Nos 3206 and 3245). Mr Robert Telus will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u372	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the great honour of representing today on the floor of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, print No 3206. The Sejm at its 77th meeting on 20 February 2019, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. And both of these committees today, after considering the above draft law at the meeting on 21 February, ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. At first reading, I already presented what we had in this project. First of all, it is this mistake or oversight that caused farmers to be unable to obtain a refund of excise duty on fuel from certain invoices for agricultural diesel. And that's what we're regulating in this bill. In the course of work, as in any law, because here Members were a little bit accusing it, but at every law during the work we made amendments that clarified this particular matter. First of all, your Marshal, the High Sejm, it was so that the bill could work backwards. In order not to write it down so specifically, simply, that the bill would work backwards, we had to use some construction... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: There is such a constitutional principle...]] ...legal, so that farmers can benefit from it so that they don't lose it. And so, at the committee meeting, I had this honour, the amendments that were agreed with the Legislative Office, which were agreed with the Ministry. During the committee meeting, it also turned out that this amendment could have been better recorded so that it could be regulated even better. The main point was that this refund of excise duty on fuel for agricultural use could also be made on an application which had already been submitted, which the farmer had submitted, so that it would not be necessary to ask the farmer's consent, because it is known that if he had made this application earlier, the Authority had obtained such consent and that, at the request of the farmer, it would be able to obtain that decision. Of course, if it turns out that the farmer has taken these invoices, he will also be able to submit a new application and, above all, this concerns the amendment. And here, your marshal, the High Sejm, as I said at the outset, the committee is asking the High Sejm to vote on this law urgently because farmers are waiting for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u373	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I am the first to invite you to present the position of the Leszek Galemba Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u374	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Law and Justice Club a positive position - concerning the amendment of the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of the diesel used for agricultural production, prints No 3206 and 3245. This is a very important law for agricultural producers who are waiting for excise duty refunds. It will make this possible and improve the farm's budget. The exclusion from the diesel gas catalogue falling within CN code 2710 20 11 prevented farmers from paying part of their excise duties. This law grants a refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel used for agricultural production on all types of diesel offered on the fuel market. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club calls for the adoption of a bill by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u375	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mrs Dorota Niedziela, who will present her position on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u376	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that I have the honour, but it is a dubious honour, sir, because it is actually a bit of an amendment of shame, an amendment of shame. The amendment of shame is because, in this House in November, we voted on a project in which there were so huge errors for farmers that it turned out that in January farmers brought invoices and asked for a refund of excise duty, and it turned out that these invoices would not be taken into account because the codes were not appropriate. The codes are amended and, according to these codes, farmers cannot obtain their money due to them for the refund of excise duty. This merely shows what level of law we are at right now, sir. You should be ashamed because it is a government project, but also to everyone in this House we are embarrassed by the fact that the projects are carried too quickly, without consultation, on the knee. The honourable Member himself said today that even the parliamentary amendment, which was not really a parliamentary one, but a ministerial one, in order to fix what was corrupt, was written on the knee. And the proof is the fact that at the committee meeting at first reading the amendment was greater than the draft submitted. Turns out we're not just trying to fix things, but we're also forcing farmers to go back to ARMIR to get... And write another project... They have to turn to... What was it called, sir? According to your project, they have to go, write a project, and agree to make sure that money can be paid out to them. [[Permission granted.]] Permission granted. Thanks for the cooperation and the opposition, and the rulers, causing you to withdraw from this change. And right now, we have a change in change that says that farmers will be able to get the money they should have long ago in a fairly easy way. However, once again, I would like to hear from the Minister, who is now responsible for this amendment, because he will implement it, that all farmers who have not been paid invoices in January and in the following months will be treated accordingly and the money will enter their accounts as soon as possible. In such a dimension as should have previously been done only because the law was wrongly established and the government project was wrongly written. High Izbo! The Civic Platform will support this amendment as a good will and as if admitting that absolutely that law was really ill-written and even the state can't write well. We'll be behind this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u377	Thank you, Madam President. And I would like to invite you to present the position of the Kukiz club15, which will be delivered by Mr Jarosław Sachajko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u378	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development regarding the draft of the Parliamentary Law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The issue of excise duty drawback for the purchase of diesel is very important for farmers. The costs of agricultural production are very high and are constantly increasing, so the possibility of obtaining even a partial reimbursement of expenditure on the necessary fuel for agricultural production is a significant relief for farmers. Taking advantage of the occasion, I would like to draw attention to the problem in which the procedated law falls. Once again, I am impressed by how unpredictable the way the law is in Poland. If the regulation of a given issue is urgent for the government, the Sejm is working at an express pace on such a priority bill for the government, and within just two to three days the law can go through the entire legislative process. On the other hand, if the regulation does not gain political acceptance of the governing party, there is virtually no way that legislative work will be started. And it does not matter how much a new law or change is needed and expected by citizens. For example: at the time of adoption, at least dozens of proposals submitted by me on behalf of the Kukiz club15 are expected, which are important for farmers and the Polish village. I will only mention the draft amendment to the Agricultural Chambers Act, the proposal to combine inspections in the field of food control or changes in the functioning of promotion funds. I think that one of my greatest disappointments when it comes to working in the Sejm is that it is incomprehensible for me to run a party business, not a citizen's business. And the monopoly of the ruling party in failing to take into account often very good ideas presented by opposition clubs. There is little dialogue, understanding and working together. But more often than not, we're dealing with pointless proving whose right is the best and most important: mine is my own. The procedated project went to the Marshal's staff on 13 February, and already on 20 February was the first reading. Let me remind you that this proposal improves the bill that we adopted in November Ub. Today, an amendment was tabled to this proposal. I would like to point out that during the process, this amendment was even volumetricly larger than the initial provisions in the Act, for which the first reading was yesterday. The amendment to the amendment was adopted during the procedure. I am, of course, very pleased that, after a long, substantive discussion, the ruling party has accepted this amendment. She is good for farmers, because she will not force those farmers who have submitted a set of documents to return to the municipal office to re-submit the application for review, but this should be done at the latest yesterday. This is what I talked about last night for a very long time, there has even been a discussion between me and the rapporteur, how important it is to make good lawmaking, how costly it is for all of us. That is why I call once again for us to be right, substantive, so that we do not need to correct it every few months. On the conclusion of this draft law, I would like to express a positive view on the proposed amendments. I hope, along with the farmers, that this will be approved and signed by your President as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u379	Thank you. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, who will present his position on behalf of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u380	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will support this project. We do not read it in such a way that it is a success, a benefit to farmers. It's our duty. There is no disaster to be attributed to this House today if we correct these errors, consider it a success and a great benefit for farmers. We put farmers under a lot of stress, an unnecessary mitre. The farmers began to intervene. We are fixing this, but it shows how sloppy the legislative process in the Sejm is. This Seym, this term, must be said with regret, beats records in this regard. Sometimes the bill didn't come into force yet, and we've already updated it. There are many examples of this. I'm not gonna question a quick mode here, because it's easy. It's like building a pussy. One type of fuel cannot be switched off. You shouldn't even discuss it. This should be caught in the ordinary legislative process, in the course of legislation. That is why we support this solution. Let's hope there's no more mistakes like that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u381	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska will present her position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u382	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, He said well that the Sejm of this term beats records on amendments to amendments, amendments to amendments and constant correction of errors. Unfortunately, in this House, we waste a lot of time correcting errors in terms of fast, nightly debates, legislation. But only the PiS government can really lead to the fact that, in order to increase the excise duty limit for farmers, it simply prevented this return entirely. Since the beginning of January, when the new laws came into force, farmers, like Poland's long and wide, started haunting the parliamentary offices, calling for this amendment, because the amendment adopted three months ago by a legislative mistake made it impossible for some of them to return excise duties because this amendment did not take into account one of the most common diesel fuels used in agriculture: with the content of biocomponents. And the question is, aren't we making another mistake today that's gonna cost us another revision? Today we are fixing this error, but we are still moving within a certain code directory, which may turn out to be just out of date, because it is enough that there will be fuel on the market with a new warehouse, with another blend, with another code that will prove valuable to farmers. Then this bill will have to be amended again. Therefore, in the future, it is worth considering whether such detailed elements do not really move to the regulation, do not delegate powers to the Minister for the definition of a catalogue, because, after all, the limit, which concerns the refund of excise duties, is so small that it is used by most agricultural producers, also in the case of one-man activity in the case of actually working farms. The farmer, buying fuel, doesn't use any code, he probably doesn't know these codes very often. As it turned out, 3 months ago, even a country on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development did not notice that they were making a mistake, because they probably also do not know about these codes, let alone individual farmers. Neither did the government do anything to carry out any information campaign that fuel is included in the bill when it comes to return. That's why it's so messy, not different. Like I said, a farmer buying fuel isn't code-based, he's price-oriented. Today's amendment - as I said, we will, of course, support it, it is important - will not protect us from the revision in a moment if new fuels appear on the market. Therefore, in the future, I would advise you, Minister, to draw up a broader catalogue, possibly to send it to the regulation or simply to give up such detail, while maintaining a higher level of generality. The law doesn't work backwards, so it's better not to say that this bill is supposed to work backwards. This amendment will simply allow farmers to apply for reimbursement, it is about overdue January invoices, and this is more correct. The brake club of Law and Justice was on this issue, Mr President, because yesterday we wanted to move on to the second reading, we called for it, the amendment could have been adopted yesterday and farmers could have started using it. However, it turned out that it was wrong again, because you made a revision of the amendment so that you had to make an amendment to the amendment. Thank you very much. [[She was angry.]] [[Robert, it's your responsibility.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u383	Thank you, Member. Let's move on to the questions at this point. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members like to join us? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. You are beginning Mr Jan Warrzecha, the Law and Justice. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This amendment extends the time to submit an application for excise duty refund by 31 March. I wanted to ask the rapporteur to give a specific answer, how must farmers who have applied now behaved and received a negative decision? Do they have to re-write the application to the municipality office? Will this allow them to verify these applications and in what circumstances? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u385	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u386	Minister... Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Sorry about the wrong order.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u387	That's okay, sir, I'm not offended by that. [[Your marshal, that's okay, that's okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u388	It's bad, it's bad, of course it's bad. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u389	So I accept your apology, but that's the reason I'm not offended.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u390	Many Members, when presenting their positions as clubs, talked about wasted time. And of course that time is wasted, you could do other things, because there is something to do, but that time could also be converted into specific money. The functioning of the High House is not cheap. There were analyses according to which one day of operation of the High House costs PLN 1 million. However, we have not wasted only the High House's working time, as many of the Ministry's staff have also worked on these and subsequent amendments. Hence my question: Has it been tried to estimate how much this amendment has cost, which we should have adopted in an appropriate form already in November last year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u391	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u392	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. I'd like to know what the scale is, how many farmers have been denied. Do the Ministry of Agriculture know that? I would also like to ask whether such a situation will be repeated, that the law which concerns agriculture and the law directly concerned, among others. agriculture, passes through the Sejm without a procession within the agricultural committee. This law came out of the Sejm in November without proceeding within the agricultural committee, it was not proceded within the agricultural committee. [[That's not the bill we're talking about...]] No, sir, I'm just asking if... Because the referral depends, of course, not on the minister, but on the Marshal of the Sejm, but this bill was not dealt with jointly by the finance committee and the agricultural commission. And maybe because it wasn't the agriculture committee that did it, it was a mistake. Another thing is that the amendment wasn't very good either. On the other hand, I would like to know what scale this is and how long these deficiencies in excise duties will be compensated for.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u393	Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u394	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The State budget for the current year reserved the amount of PLN 1180 million for the payment of excise duties. I would like to ask how these funds will be distributed. Will the Ministry have estimates of how many farms, including farms producing milk or cattle, will be able to benefit from these measures and what area of agricultural land will be covered by these payments? Second line. We hear that the state budget situation is very good. Is the government considering raising the level of excise duty refund? This is the amount calculated from each litre, the increase from 1 PLN, e.g. up to PLN 1.10. The maximum rate - we know this, is the result of EU rules and not only - can be 1.36 PLN here. I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u395	Thank you. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have no doubt that farmers should receive a refund of excise duty as soon as possible. On the other hand, I wanted to ask why the ruling party is creating a law that makes life so difficult for everyone every day. After all, the municipality must explain itself to farmers and take on this dissatisfaction as a result of the fact that farmers cannot receive a refund of excise duty. The farmer is not interested in the fact that a wrong law has been passed in the Sejm. The previous project was examined by the finance committee, without the participation of the agricultural committee. As we did today at the meeting of the finance committee, we discussed the issue of subsidies to farmers. It's about subsidies for buying apples. There was no agriculture committee there. This can't be happening, ladies and gentlemen. This term represents the most negative way [[♪ The bell ♪]] Regulation. I would very much ask you to learn from this project and from this situation, which is really very embarrassing for all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u397	Thank you. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15, will ask a final question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u398	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This year was very difficult for Polish agriculture in connection with drought. That is why I wanted to ask: Are there perhaps projects or legislation planned in the Ministry on the return of full excise duty on the prevention of drought? The question is first of all about things like this. Deepening. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as farmers are concerned, who would like to secure the land just in water, not clearing each piece of their field, but by deepening it down by applying the unbiased crops on heavy soil, this is very problematic due to the high costs. It's about fuel costs. Question: "Is there any legislation planned that would allow full excise duty to be recovered against drought?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u399	Thank you very much. This and earlier questions will be answered by Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Rafał Romanowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Members of the House and to the applicants for the rather urgent and very close and constructive proceding of the parliamentary project, which meets the expectations of Polish farmers. The project itself is an initiative of the Members of the applicants, but today's discussion at the session of the Parliament committee, the Joint Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, has allowed for the work to be done, but also a considerable simplification of the project, as mentioned by Mrs Niedziela. So that I would like to express my great thanks to the government, because, like the parliamentarians, you probably know very well... You yourself say that the farmers who presented problems with precisely this amendment of the law, the law itself, as well as problems with codes came to your parliamentary offices. So this bill is necessary. I just wanted to clarify some pretty important differences and some inaccuracies that appeared here. Let's remember one basic thing. This is not a novelty in this law, because this law has already been in operation since 2006 that requests for a return of fuel are made in two cycles. The first cycle is from the first to the end of February each year, the next cycle is from the first to the end of August each year. So we are not talking here about applications submitted by Polish farmers in January this is an important difference. I would also like to assure the High House that thanks to these additional codes that have been entered here, due to correlation tables, all types of fuel, diesel, which will be used for agricultural production, will be taken into account. Therefore, such problems will not arise. In addition, e.g. thanks to the amendment drawn up today at the committee meeting, the farmer will not have to agree to move the decision. This decision will be made out of office. And any farmer who has already submitted an application and has received a negative decision, but also one who has not yet submitted an application, will be able to submit it in view of the extended deadline for submitting these applications by the end of March this year. This is only about 2019. I sincerely thank Mr Sachajka for his concern for the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture, but working on these amendments - because you asked for an estimate - of course, it was normally done as part of his duties. So, the honourable Member will forgive us, but we will not additionally count how much it will cost. The scale of the farmers affected by this problem is really small, very small. We do not have accurate information, but we can estimate that this represents a maximum of about 5%. Are there financial deficiencies, how many farmers are concerned about how many hectares they cover? As I mentioned earlier, the Act has already been in operation since 2006. So we are talking about a scale of about 10 million ha and about 1 million farmers who have benefited from this return. So far, as Mr Plocke has said, it has been an amount of PLN 860 million. In 2019, 1180 million were guaranteed in the Budget Act for this purpose. However, we have experience from 2018, when, although it was guaranteed 860 million, over 911 million were spent on this purpose from the budget law. Additional resources have emerged from the reserve to simply cover these commitments and requests of all Polish farmers. Therefore, if the situation arises that there will be an additional percentage of hectares or beneficiaries, even if it comes from the production of dairy cattle and the aid to the adult conversion unit, the State budget will be as much as possible. High Izbo! About that bill that was being discussed... Because it was two different laws. True, they were accepted on the same day, but so that we do not mix concepts. On the same day, a single Act of the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology concerning the simplifications in income tax and a second Act on excise duty reimbursement was being examined. By deleting those codes, which allow for extended inclusion in invoices, and by adding them precisely in this amendment presented by the Members of the applicants, this problem will certainly not be repeated, nor will it repeat the problem in relation to those invoices which were not covered by any code. This is very important information. So once again, thank you very much to the Members of the applicants. I would also like to thank the Members of the opposition who worked today at the committee meeting. The High House will do a huge good deed for Polish farmers, and all those farmers who have not submitted an application so far, or farmers who have already received a negative decision, will be able to submit a request again, but will personally be granted a positive opinion and will be able to benefit from these measures. [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u401	Yeah, but in a minute. The rapporteur for the committee, Mr Robert Telus, will also answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u402	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few I'll start by thanking you. [[That's where we start.]] Thank you all for working on such an important project and working together. I don't think there'll be a problem with the vote. Mr. Kazimierz Plocke wipes his forehead because he's worked a lot. (PL) Mr President, although the President suggested that it would cost money, we will not pay for this work, it is within our work. As part of the corrigendum: I think that you have missed the point of saying that we are applying to the ARIMR because it is not to the ARIMR, it is to the office, but I know that this is a slip. That is what you said about January - no, because it is only February, there are no applications in January. Mr Sachajko said - I have mentioned a name, he will be able to correct - that we are doing a bill within two or three days. Mr President, this has often been the case if it really was necessary, and at this point I don't think anyone will argue with me that there was a need to make this law quickly. I have already told you at the beginning - thank you to everyone that everyone has come to this - that this is a priority law and that we had to do it in just two or three days so that we didn't make a bigger mess. How did this happen? Here we talk about the bill and somehow blame it on the Minister of Agriculture. Minister Romanowski is with us, but it was also said at the committee meeting that it was Minister Ardanowski's fault. No, it was, ladies and gentlemen, a coincidence, two laws in the Sejm were examined on the same day: our increase in the amount and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship. It's an oversight. Because they say it's the Ministry's fault now. Ladies and gentlemen, we're all working. The opposition should also work, the opposition should also pay attention to errors, often does so, often if the opposition notices errors, it reports them. [[But an interministerial consultation. There's an interministerial consultation in the government.]] Here we didn't notice this coincidence that two laws were in one day. We can't say he owes the Minister of Agriculture. It was a coincidence that just happened to all of us. Amendments to amendments. The PSL Member says that the amendments to the amendments... Mr President, it is always the case that if you are working on a law and you are working hard, there are amendments. Of course, it happens just like this time, that it still goes to... [[Voice from the room: I didn't say that...]] Oh, someone else did, didn't they? Whatever. [[So? Isn't that nice?]] It is not a mistake that amendments are made, that we are here to make amendments and that the law should be good, that there should not be such situations as in this case in November that two laws were at the same time. [[We need to apologize for the legal shit.]] Jan Warecha. What does it look like when it comes to syntaxing proposals? Dear Member States, if the decision has not been made and mostly has not been made, because, since 1 February, it has been possible to submit proposals, then the office - and here was the amendment to the amendment that you spoke about - will issue the correct decision. If the farmer collected invoices, because maybe such situations were, then it is possible that at the request of the farmer... So that all the farmers who put it together get a refund. Mr. Sachaiko is still asking about the costs. Mr President, I think that we have talked about this so many times already, I think it is not so important that we talk about costs at this point, since farmers are waiting for this law. And I think it's probably more important than any cost. [[Is the government considering an increase?]] [[No, that was a question for the Minister of Agriculture.]] But I'll answer if the government's considering it. I, as a Member of the Law and Justice, will say to the Member that, of course, he is considering it. We are thinking about it, and that is why, Mr, you know that we increased excise duty in November. It is we who have increased this excise duty refund and that is why we keep thinking about it, because we know how important it is to support Polish agriculture. And that's why I'm gonna answer you. [[We see that there will be changes to the Secretarys of State.]] The Sejm was working badly - Mrs Czernow. The Seym wasn't working well. We're all working. There are mistakes, we also make mistakes. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would like to say a word to all the farmers again. [[Excuse us.]] If there are any inconveniences for Polish farmers, on behalf of the Sejm, which works badly, because that is what Mrs Czernow said, i.e. The entire Seym, I'm very sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u403	Well, it's a good thing those words sounded at the end. In the context of the corrigendum by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u404	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, There's a few things on our lips here. You've been trying all along, for a long time, some malice towards me... [[What malice?]] I don't know why, because it keeps turning against you. I know it's hard for you to imagine that everything is converted into costs. We can imagine that the ministry is still working, preparing amendments to ill-prepared laws, and doing nothing new. These are real costs, because at that time the ministry should be doing new things, and we have things to do, we have laws that should have been prepared a long time ago. The Minister himself promised that the Agricultural Chambers Act would be prepared, and look how long it's been, and we don't have that. As for whether or not two or three days is a lot, I didn't want to talk about this extreme case, when it took less than two hours to do all three readings, so you could say that two or three days is a lot. It's not that, it's that we're doing this completely unnecessary, [[♪ The bell ♪]] instead of doing things ahead. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u405	Thank you very much. There's the rapporteur. But one sentence, sir, as agreed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u406	Mrs. Marshal! I will really correct it, because apparently you misunderstood me. I didn't want to be mean in any way in my speech. If you understand it that way, I am very sorry. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u407	There was one sentence as agreed. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of point 47 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of Council Decisions (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of members of the European Parliament in direct universal elections, annexed to Council Decisions 96/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976 (Prints No 3177 and 3239). Mr Maciej Masłowski will present a report to the committee. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Let him rejoice.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u408	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will admit that this is a special day for me today because I am the rapporteur for the first time. I asked for three years, and here we are at the 122nd committee meeting. Thank you very much to all your parliamentarians for this amount of trust. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I would like to inform the honourable House that, at the meeting of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Digitalisation, it was decided unanimously - in the number of 21 present Members from 46 Members of the Committee - to accept this ratification of the Council's decision, as the Marshal mentioned earlier. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u409	Congratulations on the choice of rapporteur, I thank you for presenting this report so efficiently. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski on behalf of Law and Justice to present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice vis-à-vis the Government's draft law on ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of members of the European Parliament in direct universal elections, annexed to Council Decision 96/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976. The proposal concerns the following changes in the elections to the European Parliament. And I will briefly present the main changes. The proposed law gives Member States the opportunity to vote in advance, to vote in correspondence, to vote electronically and to vote on the Internet. It also introduces a minimum time limit for the submission of candidates to the European Parliament if such a time limit is adopted in the country concerned, at least 3 weeks before the expected date of the elections to the European Parliament. It also gives the possibility to impose sanctions for voting more than once. It then points out that Member States have taken the necessary measures to enable their nationals residing in third countries to vote. The most recent major changes require the appointment of a contact authority responsible for the exchange of data with an appropriate equivalent in other countries. And the question is, what's all this for? All this in order to increase European political awareness, to increase electoral turnout - at least that is hope - and to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by technological advances. I want to say that the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u411	Thank you very much. And I invite Mr Paweł Arndt to present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u412	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Ministers! We are discussing a draft act on ratification of the Council's decision amending the act concerning the election of the members of the European Parliament. Usually, ratification laws are not particularly emotional, they are not controversial. I think it is, and in this case, this bill does not arouse such emotions either. The law actually contains two articles. The first article authorises the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the Council Decision. Article two refers to the entry into force of the Act. In fact, my previous speaker has already told us what the decision is. Indeed, this decision aims to encourage voters to take part in elections to the European Parliament. And here a number of facilitations have been introduced, particularly regarding correspondence voting or electronic voting. The Civic Platform actually, you can say, has always been in favour of voting and correspondence, and over the Internet. Such a correspondence vote is possible today, but so far it could only be used by people with disabilities. We want the elderly, the elderly, to benefit from this, and I hope that this will be the case from then on. Electronic voting is also a challenge of time, and I hope that this will happen. Of course, the credibility of the results must be ensured, the confidentiality of the vote must be ensured. It's all necessary for this to happen. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I would like to say that we will support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u413	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Piotr Apel to present the position of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u414	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad you're the minister, because the bill doesn't raise any doubts. It's pretty simple. On the other hand, the decision should be our remorse. She's talking about the possibility of voting on the Internet. This is not an option in Poland. She's talking about the maximum turnout threshold, the electoral threshold is 5%. We're the 5% Here we go. All decisions regarding our ordination are the fulfilment of such an extremely opportunistic, convenient formula. No amenities for citizens, no amenities that will make young people e.g. They're more likely to go to the election. There is no possibility in Poland - although this decision gives it - there is no possibility to vote on the Internet, there is no e-voting. There are no tools like that. lowering the electoral threshold, which would make voters not be doomed to choose the lesser evil between one large and the other large, and could choose the groups they want to choose. There's no good ordination either. So, of course, Kukiz15 will support this bill, because it can't change anything, it's natural. But let us remember all that is in this decision, which is not with us. And I hope that in the next term of Kukiz,15 will have such an impact on the authority that such facilities, especially for young people, for those who use the Internet, will be and will be put into effect. And that decision won't be any more embarrassment for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u415	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will present the position of the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u416	Thank you very much, Marshal. I don't think I'm gonna speak anymore today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u417	But why? You're welcome. As usual, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u418	'Cause I've got other classes, too. The bill we're investigating doesn't cause much controversy. It concerns ratification of the decisions of the Council of the European Union regarding the Euro elections, let us call it. I don't think it's causing any controversy. In addition, the rapporteur spoke about how it was at the committee meeting. These concepts are known to Polish voters. They should therefore be supported and respected. Polish People's Party - The Union of European Democrats supports ratification and we will vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u419	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern. There isn't. On the other hand, Mr Sylwester Khrushch, near Free and Solidarnia, made a written statement. Does anyone else want to join the list of people who are going to ask a question at this point? I can't see. I'm closing the list. You are beginning Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u420	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law actually very simple, fulfills the Council's decisions, only wonder why we as Poland must be pushed all the time: either pushed by decisions or by directives or ratifications. Why can't we in such obvious and good solutions for citizens be in the vanguard? You write in the explanatory memorandum about technological progress, about conveniences, about challenges. When it comes to the Internet and the possibilities of new technologies, everyone says big clichés. We have just heard that the Civic Platform has always advocated the possibility of voting online. Mr. Speaker! Why hasn't anything been done so far? Citizens are waiting for this. You haven't done anything for three years, so we can finally do it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Poland use tools that should have been implemented long ago. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u421	And Mr Maciej Masłowski, also the Kukiz club15, will ask the last question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Naturally, I will not ask the rapporteur a question, that is, myself. And since you had no questions, let me ask you a question from the Minister, which has already been repeated before. Well, the honourable Minister, this Council decision - as my previous speakers said - mentions that it is important to encourage voters to vote, to enable them to choose different ways, among other things. electronic voting, online voting, which isn't always... Some may think it's the same. And the question is whether we could not even get these Euro elections - I am not even talking about the Seym elections anymore, but at least about the Euro elections - prepare such a system and open ourselves to citizens, make it available to them on the Internet, because you will certainly agree with me that turnout would be disproportionately much greater if we started something like this. And the question is, if there is already a Council decision, are we ready to, for example. In four years' time to vote on the Internet? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u423	Thank you. And I invite you to the Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization to answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u424	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, In fact, I answer one question, because both Mr Sachajka and Mr Masłowski's questions were really about the same thing, namely the possibility of voting online in Poland. Just so we're clear: from a technological point of view, that's the way it is. There is no doubt about it, they operate in many countries of the European Union. As far as the Ministry of Digitalization is concerned, we took this initiative, and we consulted with the Ombudsman, who asked why there is no such possibility of voting online in Poland. I now answer why. However, because elections are a very important part of the functioning of civil society. The online vote carries a number of cybercrime risks, cybersecurity risks. We believe in the government that in order to be able to vote through electronic platforms, there must be a full consensus between all parties, participants in the political debate, and this consensus, even though we have tried to bring it forward, there has been no consensus in this term. That is precisely why today we are not taking the initiative to introduce the possibility of voting online. I will just refer to what Mr Sachajko has said. You asked why Poland must always be pushed. I cannot agree with this because if you open this directive, it will turn out that out of five points four are already implemented in our electoral code today - so it is difficult to agree - and this one point about the possibility of voting online is not, as I said, possible for these reasons. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u425	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of members of the European Parliament in direct universal elections, annexed to Council Decision 96/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976. Over the past years, attendance at the European Parliament elections has been low, by far the lowest of all elections in Poland. All proposals aimed at raising the awareness of voters and introducing facilitations and transparency in electoral processes to the European Parliament should therefore be looked at. The new elements that can be introduced are voting in advance, voting electronically or voting online and correspondence. Such innovations are also needed in Poland. Therefore, as the Free and Solidarni Circle, we support the implementation of the above amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u427	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 48 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate draft law amending the Environmental Law (Prints No. 3212 and 3230). Mrs Anna Paluch will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u428	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate draft law amending the Environmental Law, print no. 3212 and 3230. High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 15 February this year, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for first reading. Today, the Committee on the Environment carried out its first reading. In the vote, it adopted a shortened deadline for the first reading - 6 days, not 7 days, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. High Izbo! The purpose of the Senacki Draft Print Act No 3212 is to align the system of law with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 7 March 2018, sygn. Act K 2/17, which found non-compliance with Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Act of 27 April 2001 on the Protection of the Environment with a Constitution. The Court held in that judgment that Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Environmental rights are incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Let me just remind you that art. 64 concerns property rights. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 provides that everyone has the right to property and other property rights, that those rights are inherited and that Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 says that restrictions on these rights can only be laid down in the law and must not affect the essence of freedom and rights. Thus, according to Art. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, challenged in the judgment of the Constitutional Court, with the claim referred to in paragraph 4. This article may be made within 2 years of the date of entry into force of the Regulation or of a local law which restricts the use of immovable property. This 2-year term referred to in the provision is a preclusive term, i.e. a binding term, i.e. one whose excess results in the expiry of claims held by the rightholder. High Izbo! I want to explain here, because not everyone knows exactly the environmental law that this article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 refers to these claims: for the purchase of the property or part of it by the owner, for which the owner of the property may apply; for compensation for damage suffered, for the owner of the property; for the purchase of the property or part of it, or for compensation for which the perpetual user may apply. These situations are described in detail in this Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, 2 and 3. I would add that these provisions apply to the establishment of protected areas such as national parks, nature reserves and other forms of nature conservation as set out in Article. 6 Nature Conservation Act, as well as the designation of their shelters under the Spatial Development Act, as well as the designation of silent areas in agglomerations or outside agglomerations. In addition, the provisions of Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 in conjunction with Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 shall be used in the case of the establishment of a restricted area of use on the basis of Article. 135 Environmental law. In this respect, the entity liable to respond to a redemption claim or compensation shall be the entity whose activities have caused restrictions on the establishment of that restricted area of use. All cases in this respect shall be settled by judicial procedure. Projects for which this restricted use area can be established are e.g. the establishment of waste water treatment plants, municipal waste dumps, composting plants, communication routes, as well as the creation of an airport. It should be stressed here that the nature of these compensation processes has changed considerably in the case of airports over recent years. While, in the past, owners or users have complained to public entities about compensation for the costs of sound insulation, there has been a change in the nature of these claims in recent years, as these are claims relating to the loss of value of the property due to the existence of the airport. As a result, the amount of compensation claimed is increasing dramatically. As we can read in the opinion of the Act, in 2013 4700 claims amounted to PLN 72 billion. Of course, these demands are always a bit exaggerated, but I give you this size because it speaks of the nature of the compensation to which public entities are exposed. In its judgment K 2/17, the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that the charge of too short a period of time was in fact limited in property and property rights. Why? Because in the Court's assessment, by introducing this provision, Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, this short, 2-year time limit for the claim, in fact, the legislator was hoping that not all entitled would be able to benefit from their claims. The Court goes without saying that there is concern about public finances, the desire to reduce expenditure burdening the budget of the state or local government, and the will to pay all losses caused by the limitation of ownership and other property rights played a less important role. Well, you can't deny that observation to the tribunal. I would add that the Court decided, in its decision, in the second part of the ruling, that it postpones by 12 months the date of expiry of the existing legal standard contained in the Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. High Izbo! I would like to say a few words about those provisions which, in the draft law worked out by the committee today, are included in the committee's report. Finally, Art. 1 paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: With the claim referred to in paragraph. It is possible to apply for a period of 3 years from the date of entry into force of the regulation or local law which restricts the use of immovable property. So this term was extended by half. Art. 2 This is a kind of transitional provision. Art. 2 provides: For the claims referred to in Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 of the Act as amended by Article 1 of the Act. 1 - i.e. environmental law - arising before the date of entry into force of this Act, in respect of which the deadline referred to in Article has not expired. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act as amended by Article. 1, as it stands, Article 1 shall apply. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act as amended by Article. 1, as amended by this Act. Art. 3 provides: The Act shall enter into force on 14 March. High Izbo! Two amendments were tabled during the committee's work. Finally, the committee decided to reject them, not to include them. The first amendment referred to Article. 1 and proposed to replace the deadline of 3 years with a term of 5 years. However, the Commission considered that this deadline would be too long and 9 votes against this proposal. This amendment is presented by the committee as a request from a minority. The second amendment, which was also rejected by the committee, would, in a sense, lead to the recovery of claims, even those which have already been statute-barred on a general basis, because the amendment which was tabled and subsequently rejected by the committee, is as follows: Where the deadline referred to in Article is met. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act as amended by Article. 1 in the version so far expired before the date of entry into force of this Law, with the claim referred to in Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 of the Act as amended by Article 1 of the Act. 1, may be made within 3 years of the date of entry into force of this Act. This proposal was rejected by 11 votes from the members of the Environment Committee and is also presented in the committee's report as the second minority proposal. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I kindly ask that the draft law contained in the committee's report be adopted in print No 3230. To conclude my speech, I would like to thank the Senate very warmly for the legislative initiative, which will lead us to have a chance on time as legislators of the changes to which the Constitutional Tribunal has obliged us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u429	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to invite Mrs Barbara Dziuk from the Law and Justice Club, who will present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u430	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present my position on the Senate's draft law amending the Environmental Law Act, print no. 3212. The proposed Act amending the Environmental Law aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 7 March 2018 declaring the non-compliance of the Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Act of 27 April 2001 on the Protection of the Environment with a Constitution. The Court held that Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Environmental rights are incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. According to the contested article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Environmental protection rights with a claim as referred to in paragraph. It may occur within 2 years from the date of entry into force of the Regulation or the local law which restricts the use of the property and the excess of the property results in the expiry of claims. In accordance with the applicable law, a claim for the purchase of a property or part of it or for compensation for damage suffered shall be granted to the owner or entity entitled to property rights in rem and shall expire 2 years after the date of entry into force of the Regulation or the local law establishing the area of restricted use. The Constitutional Tribunal found that the Article was unconstitutional. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Environmental law and decided to postpone the expiry of the applicable controlled legal standard and set a time limit of 12 months for changes to the legal system. The Court found this time limit to be contrary to the principle of proportionality with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution and breaching the standard of protection guaranteed by Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 basic law, mainly due to its short duration. Since the proposed regulation must balance the conflicting interests of the various parties, it is proposed to replace the existing 2-year term with a 3-year term. This time limit will allow the rights granted to them to be effectively sought, it will also allow for the planning of expenditure which, in accordance with Article, is to be planned. 134 and Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 Environmental rights must be included in the budgets of those entities which have established a restricted area of use. In its statement of reasons, the Court drew attention to the need to adopt an appropriate transitional provision. The date of entry into force of the Act is 14 March 2019. The scope of the proposed Act, which must be stressed, is not contrary to European Union law. On behalf of the Law and Justice, I have a positive opinion on the bill under review. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u431	Thank you, Member. And I invite Mr Grzegorz Lipc, who will present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u432	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club in relation to the draft amendment to the Environmental Law Act. This law is almost 18 years old. Because in April, or in two months' time, it will reach this age, it requires some renovation. And this necessary renovation will need precisely in this area, which concerns our civil rights. Where a protected area or other environmental objective is created, people often have a plot, people often have property that can lose value, then it is almost always difficult or even prevented from using it in the manner that the citizen would have requested. Then there are two options: you can demand the purchase of property from this person, you can also request compensation. To date, the Act provided for this two years after the adoption of the local act which creates the protected area. The Ombudsman rightly challenged this after years, he applied to the Constitutional Court that it was too short a period. And here, to the amazement of many - because the Constitutional Tribunal may not judge much in recent years - but it has ruled something. In March 2018, he considered that this was a short enough deadline to change this. He didn't give any concrete findings about what time it had to be. It turned out that as far as any law can often be pushed in an express way, here we go to the very end. Let me remind you, the judgment of the tribunal enters into force on 15 March, and the law is to be legal since 14 March. I think it could have been done much earlier. The judgment of the tribunal, as I said, does not refer to the period when this change of law was to take place. These 3 years of making claims in our assessment is too short a period. For what is the purpose of the Sejm as a legislator? First of all, caring for citizens, caring for their right rights. We will therefore propose an amendment once again so that the committee can reconsider whether there should be an extension of the deadline for citizens' redress in the restricted use area from 3 to 5 years. Of course, we are talking about those citizens whose claims have not expired because the legal stabilization function, as well as the principle of non-retroactivity, should be respected. We therefore believe that such an amendment could constitute a good compromise between the interests of individual citizens and the interests of companies of the Treasury, the interests of local governments. After all, many of us in this room come from local governments, so we know that there could be problems in financing many compensations. I encourage all of you on the Environment Committee, but not only all parliamentarians to make such a decision. Because what did the ombudsman really say? First of all, this unconstitutionality, which the Constitutional Tribunal has already ruled, namely the Article. 64 Constitution, which says that everyone has the right to property, other property rights or the right to inherit. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 provides that property, other property rights and the right of succession shall be subject to equal protection of the law for all and paragraph 2. 3, that ownership may be limited only by law and only to the extent that it does not infringe the substance of the property right. Consequently, the legislator, the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Tribunal decided that this might affect the Article. 2 Constitution, or one of these basic articles, namely: the Republic of Poland as a democratic rule of law implementing the principles of social justice. Therefore, in concluding and handing over the amendment to your marshal, I propose that we reconsider this compromise, which is five years old. [[♪ The bell ♪]] period for citizens to lodge such claims. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u433	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Józef Brynkus, who will present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was wondering, in what role Mrs Paluch is here, whether as rapporteur or as a lawyer of the party who is essentially, one can say, the author of this draft law, because, Mrs Paluch, the course of the committee meeting did not entitle you to present the report as you did. And now I wanted to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Environmental Law Act. The contested law is allegedly intended to implement the indications contained in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 7 March 2018. It concerns the extension of the period for the submission of compensation claims for the loss of quality of life, health risks and property value as a result of the activities of airports. The Constitutional Tribunal found these time limits to be non-constitutional, stating that they were too short. To understand the nature of the project presented by the applicants, which can actually be summarised in words: in order for it to be as it was, one must pay attention to the process of this senate project. The first reading in the Senate took place on 12 February this year and the present Minister Nicholas Wild presented an apocalyptic vision of the collapse of airports that would be bankrupt if the Senate adopted the bill as originally proposed by the Senate. Its essence was the introduction of longer periods of redress, both in the past and in the future, than in today's legislation. Minister Wild presented a horrendously high amount to be demanded by persons injured by air operations. This amount is about PLN 90 billion for the Okęta itself. Probably under the influence... This argument is not supported by any calculations, it is also opposed to reality, because from the reply to the interpellation given to Marshal Tyszka by Nicholas Wild, it appears that Okęcie, currently having a profit of about PLN 300 million per year, paid to the residents only PLN 15 million in compensation due to amicable settlement of the case or court judgments. The absurdity of the position of the ruling party supporting the Senate project is also borne out by Mr Wild's statement on the committee that the presentation of a methodology for calculating claims would contribute to the development of a legal business based on damages claims. This is ridiculous, because on the basis of judgments already given by the courts, as well as the agreements of residents with airports, it is clear what the method of calculation is, and the amount of this calculation is also known. Paradoxically, the Minister of Infrastructure in response to the interpellation of Marshal Tyszka indicates that the average amount of household compensation decided on is only 40,000. zł. I would also point to another inconsistency between the Ministry of Infrastructure, which on the one hand fears excessive claims and, on the other hand, points out that the activities of airports are so insignificant that for example. the existence of a restricted area of use around the airport does not adversely affect the value of the property. I would also remind you that the law is to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which pointed out that the inhabitants were victimized by non-constitutional regulation, not to deal with the protection of environmental and health-destructive establishments. Meanwhile, Minister Wild is doing what compensation money should be spent on. He claims, only on the basis of what it is not known, that the compensation goes to the trust accounts of the law firm, not to the needs of the soundproofing of residential buildings. In conclusion, if the law were to enter into force in its current form, the inhabitants on whose behalf the Ombudsman applied to the tribunal would continue to be disadvantaged and, consequently, the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal would be illusory. Therefore, in my amendments, I have made it clear what legislation should look like, and in a sense motivated by Mr Lipc's proposal, I am making my proposal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. I'll put it down in a minute because I have to write it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u435	Okay, but she has to be signed by authorized persons.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u436	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u437	Ms Ewa Lieder will present her position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u438	Dear Marshal! I wanted to say: Dear Ministers! But I don't see anyone. Oh, that's where you're hiding. Dear Minister, High Izbo! [[It's all out in the open.]] Okay, okay, but I didn't notice. I'm just human. Today we bow to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which ruled a year ago that Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Environmental Law is incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Originally, the project assumed that those who submitted applications after the expiry of the 2-year non-constitutional deadline would be given a new three-year period for making a claim, calculated from the date of entry into force of the amendment. The Ministry of Investment and Development has initiated changes leading to the exclusion from the right to compensation of residents who have already expired their claim period. As you know, the non-constitutional rules allowed only two years to come forward with claims, and often the construction of the airport itself lasted longer, so that the residents about the right to compensation learned after its expiry. As a result, the non-constitutional provisions of the Act have painfully experienced citizens who have been completely ignored in addition to repairing and amending non-constitutional regulations. The Constitutional Tribunal has proved that the harm is on the part of these citizens, but no compensation will cover them. For them, therefore, the judgment of the Tribunal remains irrelevant as today's project. As the Ombudsman stressed, the desire to reduce budget expenditure cannot be at the expense of those whose constitutional rights have been violated. [[Applause]] In addition, as scientists have shown, living near an airport may increase the risk of death due to stroke and cardiovascular diseases. Specialists have proved that people exposed to high air noise even five times more often require hospital treatment or die from these diseases, and these are facts. It therefore appears that any negative effects of the construction of airports in the city were entirely falling on the shoulders of neighbouring residents, who now will not receive any compensation. There are also different calculations, estimates of compensation payments. The actual calculations, which would include the amounts of fully justified claims, are simply missing at this moment. The financial impact assessment of the regulation is not supported by any reliable, expert analysis. If the claims were to concern the mitigation of the effects of housing near the airport in the context of the quality of life of the residents, these calculations would look quite different than in the case of legal firms' upturns in the amount of compensation that Minister Wild spoke about at the committee meeting. In the present form, the draft does not comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. It is therefore difficult to recognise that the law that we have the task of implementing is a good and proper law. This kind of legal and social dispute between two fully-fledged civil law parties requires more precise analysis, especially financial ones. Despite these shortcomings and what I was talking about, the project is a step forward. I think we need to give him a chance, and I very much hope that you will support the amendments that have been tabled, with which we agree and which we will also support. We will decide whether or not to give this project a chance in the course of voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u439	Thank you, Member. Two Members are on the list. Would any of you like to ask a question at this point? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. We begin with Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz Club15. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u440	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a request to the rapporteur to say what are the reasons for this manipulation that you are making when making arguments for the proposed legislation. This was also seen in Mrs Barbara Dziuk's position of Law and Justice. In her speech, it was simply clear that you were doing some kind of favor to those affected because you allegedly extended the period by three years. The problem is, however, that this is not about situations of this kind, because we are already dealing with the fact that there are areas of limited real estate use in spatial planning, and that is why people are aware of where they are building or what they are doing with these properties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The problem is that it should apply to those who did it just before. You're not talking about it at all. In this case, you're limiting time to two years, and we've been proposing three years here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u441	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u442	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant, and as if he was not here for reasons independent of him - it is for the Minister: Why aren't citizens taken seriously, they are not treated subjectively? The explanatory memorandum states that no methodology is introduced based on real grounds for calculating real compensation and an estimate methodology is introduced. After all, we live in Poland, in a country whose action is based on democratic principles. We should not make estimates here, because this, however, disrupts the trust of Poles in the system, in Poland. We can calculate everything to one decimal place, and here, if we're going to give the citizen compensation, we say it's going to be estimated. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u443	The answer to this question will be initiated by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek. You're welcome. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek: Environment.]] That's the kind of information I got, that's the extent... I understand you're undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Environment. Did I read that you're undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Infrastructure? Environment. Mr. Sławomir Mazurek. I've read everything the way it's supposed to.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u444	Okay, yeah, thank you. Yes, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The project under investigation was presented very carefully by the rapporteur. There was also a debate during the committee meeting. There are arguments that clearly show what the distribution of votes and conclusions looks like here. The participation of the Minister for the Environment, as it is the Environmental Law, is significant. However, if we would also like to talk about what committee meetings were like, it is important to mention here that the Minister of Infrastructure was very active, who is also the donor of all the data relating to this process. Our task was to give an opinion to the Senate's proposal, which indicated in its submission that such a submission was necessary. Of course, there was also a discussion in which this period was identified as the most appropriate. And on the basis of the data that we have obtained also due to the consequences for the state budget, but while at the same time meeting what the Ombudsman spoke about and as the Constitutional Tribunal said, the Minister of the Environment is taking a positive approach to the issue of this project - he is very important - so that it is also said, not to build a market for legal services that are going in the direction in which the interests of those who are injured are not even fully realised as part of the trust. At the same time, data have been identified from which it can be concluded that these compensations, which are rightly judged, are generally not passed on to issues related directly to the prevention of noise emissions, namely the revitalization of buildings in order to protect against acoustic effects, and this is going rather towards compensation. And it's a certain activity that's getting worse. But, of course, here these law firms, which operate in this spirit, have the right to do so. It is also our role to safeguard this party's full implementation of the request of the Constitutional Tribunal, while also ensuring the equality of entities and the ability to ensure the functioning of the relevant entities so that these claims are not excessive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u445	Thank you, Minister. And for the sake of information, unfortunately, a representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure has not been notified to this point, and therefore I have no opportunity to speak. [[Applause]] I would also like to invite the rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna Paluch, who also expressed her willingness to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u446	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the questions that came in my direction, I'm going to say yes. I do not know what I have put Mr Brynus in danger of hearing such a critical assessment of my role as rapporteur. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that the rapporteur should present the work of the committee, the amendments or proposals made during the committee's deliberations, whether they were accepted or rejected by the committee. All these things are reflected in my statement. To answer your question, I'll say yes. That amendment you tabled to add an article. 1a, it clearly poses a risk that this will allow all claims that have ever been brought before the 2-year deadline, which is the result of the current provision. And it cannot be ruled out that the consequence of this provision will be to rescind all these claims, even those which have long been subject to statute of limitations on general principles. A calm analysis of this record leads to such conclusions. Line two. I have reported PLN 72 billion in relation to the sum of 4701 requests to attempt a settlement, but this, please, can be read in the impact assessment of the regulation of this senate project, so I have given a well-known information. In conclusion, I would like to stress this once again, because it was also in the debate at the committee meeting that, if we read into these assessments of the proposed solutions, on the one hand, they go in such a direction that criticism concerns over-respect of the interests of property owners, and on the other hand, these assessments and opinions show that this solution has too severe financial consequences for public entities which are obliged to pay compensation. So criticism is left and right. What does that say? That this project is simply balanced. That is to say, it balances the right of each party, and under these rules, if the High House accepts it, each party will be able to pursue its own interests, which is probably the case in lawmaking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u447	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible submitted a report to the Committee on Culture and Media about the parliamentary draft resolution commemorating the patron Jan Olszewski - President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland, print No 3243. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 49 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on honoring the Secret Military Organisation (Pomeranian Griffin) (Prints No. 3140 and 3188). Mr Tomasz Zieliński will present the report to the committee. But before you begin, you will allow me to welcome the representatives and the President of the Kashubish-Kotavian Association to them. The secret military organization of the Pomeranian Gryf in Szymbark. [[Applause]] I wish you positive impressions in the Seym and interest in the project that we are about to proceed on right now. And the Member, please, will begin to present the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u448	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I present a report on the draft parliamentary resolution on honoring the Secret Military Organisation of the Pomeranian Gryf, prints No. 3140 and 3188. Autumn 1939. Germany illegally incorporated the western and northwestern parts of the Republic of Poland into the Reich. The policy pursued by the occupier against the Polish population consisted primarily of the absolute violation of resistance, extermination and forced Germanization. Historians estimate that about 50,000 were killed by Germans in the autumn of 1939. Pomerania residents. In these circumstances, at the end of 1939, the Secret Military Organisation of Kashubski was established, the founders of which were Lt. Józef Dambek, Clement Bronk, Bronisław Brunka, Józef and Jan Gierszewski. In 1941, the organization was renamed the Secret Military Organisation of the Pomeranian Gryf, and this year Fr. Józef Wrycza, becoming the first President of the General Council of the Gryfa. Fr. Józef Wrycza was a true priest and a well-known independence activist in Pomerania in 1917 and 1920, a participant in the Wielkopolska Uprising and the Polish-Bolshevik War, and participated in the weddings of Poland and the Baltic, where during Mass. He gave a sermon. It is thanks to the great authority of Fr. Joseph's underground organization begins to grow stronger and more and more new members and associates appear. During the most active activity, the number of members of the griffin reached around 20 thousand. soldiers and supporters. The main activity of this Catholic organization focused primarily on self-defense - about 100 combat actions were carried out - training, propaganda, intelligence and diversional and sabotage actions. Effectively, they fought the occupation administration and the police, helped to hide from the wanted, supporting the morale of the inhabitants, published newspapers and leaflets, helped families murdered, rescued prisoners, warned civilians against arrests and planned expulsions. Mass arrests in 1943 inhibited the development of the Pomeranian Gryf Pomorskie, and after the arrest and murder in 1944, cf. Joseph Dambek's activity began to fade slowly. In the end, Gryf Pomorskie was dissolved by order of 21 March 1945. It is worth recalling a passage from the Idea Declaration that is well-defined by the objectives of the Secret Military Organisation To this end, we will strive for all the means at our disposal, to raise our conscious goals of the Pole - a soldier, criminal, disciplined and full consecration for the good of the general and homeland. In view of the above, and taking into account the activities of the members of the Secret Military Organisation, Gref Pomorskie, the committee welcomed the draft resolution, expressing its appreciation for the heroes fighting the German invader. Following the first reading and the examination of the draft resolution at its meeting on 30 January, the committee proposes that the draft resolution be adopted by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u449	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club will be presented by Mr Kazimierz Smolinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u450	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the parliamentary draft resolution on honoring the Secret Military Organisation of the Pomeranian Gryf Pomeranian, prints 3188 and 3140. The rapporteur presented very well the circumstances of the uprising and the activities of the Secret Military Organisation, Gref Pomorskie, but it is necessary to put this in some historical arrangement and to say that at the beginning of the war in 1939 in Pomerania, Germany carried out mass murders on Pomeranian intelligence in the framework of the Intelligenzaktion action. Between September 1939 and January 1940, only within a few months, as the President said, about 50,000 were murdered. Poles, Jews and Gypsies. There was the biggest crime in psychiatric patients, all patients from the Pomerania area, but they were also imported from outside this area. Several thousand psychiatric patients were murdered. The main places of execution are Las Piaśnicki near Wejherów - 14 thousand. murdered, nuns k. World - 10,000, Las Szpęgawski k. Oldgardu - approx. 7 thousand. Murdered, which is now more and more often referred to as a pomeranian crime. In response to this occupation there was a resistance movement, which was manifested by the formation of the Secret Military Organisation, the Kashubian Gryf, which was then renamed the military organization of the Pomeranian Gryf. As it was said, the main leaders were: Capt. Józef Dambek, when he was at rest, his rank was raised - Józef Dambek, of course Fr. Col. Józef Wrycza and the last commander are Augustyn Westphal. I think there are more people to talk about, but these have probably been most commemorated. The activities of Greffa, as stated in the resolution of the Sejm, are a beautiful card of the history of the Polish conspiracy of independence of the time of war and ethos, to which Kaszubi, Kociewiata and other Pomerania referred during the post-war communist repressions. The post-war anti-communist guerrilla functioned very intensively, thanks to the Pomeranian Gryf Pomorskie during the post-war period in Pomeranian Pomeranian.Inka was murdered in Gdansk. These actions proved that what had been initiated by Grypha was still in operation for many years after the war. That is why this organization should be celebrated. On behalf of my club, I support the Sejm's resolution on [[♪ The bell ♪]] Commemoration of the Secret Military Organization of the Pomeranian Gryf Pomorskie on the eve of the anniversary of the death por. Dambka and the 80th anniversary of her creation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u451	Thank you. The position of the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Kazimierz Plocke. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u452	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - The Civic Coalition will support the draft resolution on honoring the Secret Military Organisation of the Pomeranian Gryf. It's a good thing this resolution was prepared. It will have historical significance for us - inhabitants of Pomerania and Poland. We would like to raise doubts about the proposed resolution presented. They have no substantive impact on the content of the resolution. Nevertheless, we would like to share two reflections. The first reflection concerns the appreciation of Chief Józef Dambek and recognition of him as the creator and commander of Gryf Pomorskie. In one of the paragraphs of the draft resolution it was written that the general authorities were also involved. Fr. Colonel Józef Wrycz. It sounds like he's one of many people in the authorities of a secret military organization, and Wrycza was one. Rycza was an ideal and political symbol of the Pomeranian Gryf Pomorskie and the President of his Supreme Council. This was the way to reflect historical truth. The second issue relates to cooperation with the National Army, which was, according to historians, complex and difficult. It is also worth paying attention to the figure of Józef Gierszewski ps. Ryś, who was co-founder of Greff Pomorskie, his military commander and at the same time his victim. It's worth remembering. Józef Dambek led to integration with the organization of the Sword and Plow. This too is worth remembering. If we worship the memory of the heroes, then we should mention them: Dambek, Wrycza, Gierszewski. Many griffins after the end of the war in 1945 were not appreciated, honored for their fight. They suffered a lot, many of them died. It is worth mentioning Grzegorz Wojewski and Augustyna Westphal. The memory of these people should be recalled. In our opinion, they deserved it. So much for our reflection. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u453	Thank you. I invite Mr Józef Brynkus, who will present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u454	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the parliamentary draft resolution on honoring the Secret Military Organisation of the Pomeranian Gryf Pomorskie, prints no. 3140 and 3188. The secret military organization The griffin acted in particularly difficult conditions, because in areas incorporated into the Third Reich, subjected to enormous pressure from the occupier to destroy all signs of the Polishness of these lands. The activities of the organization fully deserve to be honored and appreciated as a wonderful testimony of the faithfulness of Poland. Unfortunately, the draft resolution retains some kind of unfortunate phrases that undermine the size and value of this organisation. The phrase to be mentioned is the defence war. It comes from the arsenal of Soviet historical semantics. The autumn war campaign in 1939 was the first campaign launched in September 1939. The Second World War, not a separate and exclusively Polish defence war. The strongest confirmation of the fact that this campaign was part of World War II is the accession to war, although only formal or declarative, allies: France and the United Kingdom. The Third German Reich and the Soviet Union were the aggressors and perpetrators of this war. The concept of defence war was followed by Communist historians following Soviet historians to justify the thesis that World War II only broke out on June 22, 1941, at the time of the Third Reich's aggression against the Soviet Union. According to this concept, earlier military activities of the Soviet Union, including aggression towards Poland on 17 September 1939, supporting the aggression of Nazi Germany, were to be the introduction of the Third Reich and the Soviet Union of the world order. Therefore, in some sense, this wording weakens the pronunciation of this beautiful resolution, because the Gryf Pomorskie was a beautiful manifestation of Polish resistance against German aggression and honoring this organization should not constitute an opportunity for semantic manipulation and forgery of Polish history. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u455	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u456	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats will support the draft resolution submitted. It is clear to us that it is necessary to commemorate the soldiers of an underground organization who, faithful to their ideals and words from the founding declaration, has always tried to fight for freedom and independence. I would like to point out that in 1939 Polish Pomerania was fully incorporated into the Reich. The battle of the soldiers of the Grypha family was therefore fought in a foreign country. The activities in the Pomeranian Grypha were therefore very risky and, as my previous speakers have already mentioned, some 20,000 were part of the organisation. Guerrillas or residents. The activities were diverse, former armed actions, as were two attacks on the airports in June 1943 in Rumi and 21 November in Strzebielin. Some focused on helping the civilian population, the victims and the arrested, some saved many people from death through illegal transfers to Sweden and other countries. The organization also worked closely with the National Army. It didn't work without the invader's attacks. Most soldiers entered the Gestapo in 1943 and then into the camp in Stutthof. The date of death of the commander on 4 March 1944 is very difficult and sad. Today it is our duty and our duty to honor the heroic Pomeranias who fought for freedom and for free Poland. Without any exaggeration, we can say today that the soldiers of Greffa are the most steadfast of the steadfast. By paying tribute to them, let us also restore a proper historical assessment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u457	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u458	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club It is a modern privilege for me to present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on honoring the secret military organization of Gryf Pomorskie. Ladies and gentlemen! The Pomeranian Griffin - as someone has rightly mentioned - was founded in Czarlin in 1939 in order to fight for independent Poland and in defence of the Catholic Church. The establishment of the organization was the answer to the situation in Pomerania after the end of the fights and the unlawful integration of Polish lands into the Reich in October 1939. The main creator and commander of the Pomeranian Gryf Pomorskie from the beginning until his death at the hands of the Gestapo agent on 4 March 1944 was Lt. rez. Joseph Dambek. Gryf Pomorskie cooperated with the National Army and other organizations of the Polish independence conspiracy. The actions included both armed combat and intelligence, publishing a conspiracy press and conducting secret teaching, which is worth remembering. For this reason, the organization was ruthlessly fought by the Germans, who wanted to destroy traces of Polishness in the area of Kashub, Kociewi and incarnate to the Reich of Pomerania at all costs. The organization was also a threat to the Soviets, which is why they were so resolutely fighting Greff, because they considered this organization to be a threat to their order. Today, on the 80th anniversary of the uprising and the 75th anniversary of the death of the founder and commander of the Józef Dambek, a modern club, believes that memory should be honored and states that the Pomeranian Gryf has earned his country well. Therefore, the Modern will support the draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u459	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Silesian, I would like to draw attention to how the fate of Polish patriots from this area coincided with the fate of patriots from Pomerania and Warmia and Mazury. Everywhere where the Germans tried to tear off the area that was reborn after years of Poland's partitions, the resumes remind us of the one he wrote in the history of Capt. Joseph Dambek. Yes, the captain, because a year ago, on 5 March 2017, on the anniversary of his death, was promoted by the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz. For this one correction, I would like to ask the applicants for this very important and necessary draft resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u461	Thank you very much. Would the committee rapporteur like to take the floor? I can't see. The list of Members voted in has been exhausted... [[Voice from the Chamber: The rapporteur is coming.]] Are you coming, the rapporteur? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I can only say that there was a debate at the committee meeting on this resolution and all the amendments that were tabled were accepted by the committee. The resolution was adopted unanimously by the committee and at that stage it was possible to... All the amendments that have been tabled have been included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u463	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of item 50 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's office (prints No. 3180 and 3190). I ask Mr Jack the World to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u464	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 31 January, the Committee on Culture and Media discussed a parliamentary draft resolution initiated by Mr Andrzej Melak on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's cabinet, print No 3180. High Izbo! This is another resolution within the entire cycle of celebrations of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. I personally think that it is never too much of a reminder of the achievements of the fathers of our independence and the achievements of our predecessors in the Parliamentary benches, because it is a wonderful achievement, it is a subject of our admiration and I think it should also be a source of inspiration. Similarly, I believe that all the members of the committee are thinking, because the committee, following the introduction of cosmetic amendments to the draft, unanimously supported the text of the resolution, which I will allow me to present quickly. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's office. Ignacy Jan Paderewski's office was created on 16 January 1919 as a result of an earlier agreement between Mr Józef Piłsudski and the President of the National Committee of Polish Roman Dmowski. At the head of the government was a politician whose merits were known internationally and who gave hope to reconcile a very diverse political scene at that time. It was the first Polish government after Poland regained its independence, to which all local government institutions in the former Kingdom of Poland, Galicia, Wielkopolska and Silesia Cieszyński submitted. It included both non-party ministers, including supporters of National Democracy, as well as representatives of the Polish Socialist Party, the Polish People's Party - Left and other groups. Ignacy Paderewski's office in the course of his activity contributed to the identification of a common Polish peace delegation for a peace conference in Paris. It was headed by Ignacy Paderewski - President of Ministers and, at the same time, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Roman Dmowski - President of the Polish National Committee. Thanks to the activities of the delegation, Poland gained international recognition as a sovereign European state and ally of the winning powers, as confirmed by the Treaty of Versailles on 28 June 1919. The government of Ignacy Paderewski led to democratic elections to the Legislative Sejm on 26 January 1919 and to local government in February 1919, the formation of the State Police, the expansion of state administration and local government, public education of all types, the Polish diplomatic service and other state institutions, as well as the start of reconstruction of the country's economy using market economy mechanisms. In recognition of the great merits of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's office, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland commemorates the 100th anniversary of his formation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u465	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item he would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Melak will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice will be happy to support the draft resolution, which appreciates one of the fathers of independence, which was undoubtedly Ignacy Jan Paderewski, a generation born after the defeat of the January Uprising. Ignacy Jan Paderewski, must be reminded, was a wonderful virtuoso of the piano, composer and organizer of aid for the victims of the war in Poland in 1915 and 1918. He was also a spiritual leader of the United States Polonia. A friend of many politicians contributed to the fact that the President of the United States Woodrow Wilson in the declaration on Poland supported Poland's independence with access to the sea. The historical achievement of the head of state and chief chief of Józef Piłsudski by Ignacy Jan Paderewski and generals of Józef Haller and Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki and the military mission of the ententa was the symbolic unification of all formations of the Polish Armed Forces on 19 October at the sarcophagus of Tadeusz Kościuszki in the suburbs of the Wawel Cathedral. The important achievements of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's office were the mobilisation of food and sanitation aid - the U.S. administration, the mission of Herbert Hoover - and the start of the economic recovery of the country using market economy mechanisms. In grateful memory we retain the indications of Ignacy Paderewski on the dissemination in our society of ethos of work, especially among young people, and ethos of service to the Polish state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u467	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u468	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to remind you of the conditions under which Ignacy Jan Paderewski began ruling. The first government of Prime Minister Moraczewski in the first weeks had many successes, e.g. universal electoral law including women, an 8-hour day's work, the legality of trade unions and the right to strike, the appointment of labour inspection and sickness insurance, but with governance it did not work well. There was a wave of strikes and peasant speeches across the country. The workers took over the industrial plants, the landowners were thrown out of the manor houses, and the land was self-sacrificed. The situation was serious and the revolution was feared. Then Józef Piłsudski realized that he would not be able to persuade the Entents to acknowledge the Moraczewski government. His choice was made by Ignacy Paderewski, who has been involved in Polish politics since the beginning of the 20th century, becoming one of the main advocates of Polish independence. January 11th, I'll remind you, 1917. Paderewski handed over Paderewski's memorial to President Wilson, in which he called for the creation of the United States of Poland as a Federation State covering most of the area of the Republic of both Nations from before the partitions. Thanks to Ignace Paderewski, as Mr Paderewski said, the issue of Poland is in the famous 14 points of Wilson. Paderewski was to personally lead the interim government with a large group of partyless ministers. Some of them were supporters of National Democracy. Many tasks have been put before the new government. One of the first was to reach an agreement with the National Committee of Poland in Paris, and another was to hold elections to the Sejm planned for 23 January 1919. The new government managed to accomplish some of its tasks. One of his greatest successes was recognition in the international arena. I will remind you that this happened after the truce in Trevira and the ceasefire on the Polish-Ukrainian front in early 1919. On January 30, the first government of the Republic of Poland recognized the United States, then other countries. On 20 February 1919, Prime Minister Ignacy Paderewski gave an exposé. The next few days were supposed to show that the new government wasn't going to be easy. The country was destroyed by partitions and war, consisting of three parts of former partitions which were not compatible with one another in terms of economy, structure, administration or infrastructure. The huge problem was the budget in which there was no money, and because of the war, the citizens of the new state were unable to bear the burden of paying taxes. The Paderewski government has dealt with a number of reforms. One of the most important issues was the issue of agricultural reform, the enmity of the peasants. An attempt has also been made to adopt the Constitution. However, the collapse of the government stopped further work on the constitution, as well as on the introduction of controlled grain trade, which was intended to solve the issue of hunger in some parts of Poland. The Paderewski government was temporary. He had great successes in foreign policy, he calmed the state's mood, but it did not cloud the problems of the economic crisis, inflation and social unrest. After all the problems... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u469	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u470	Just one more sentence, Marshal. Ignacy Paderewski declared his mission to be completed on 9 December 1919. The merits of Paderewski himself and his government for the reconstruction of the independent Polish state deserve to be honoured by the Sejm in the century of his office. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u471	Thank you very much, Member. Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the resolution of the Polish Sejm on the 100th anniversary of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's office. Ignacy Paderewski is a special man. You could say he's a Renaissance man: musician, politician, businessman, philanthropist, art patron, counsel to President Wilson and wine farmer. It's hard to believe that all these functions could have been performed by one person. Ignacy Jan Paderewski led an extraordinary life, he was a 19th-century artist, romantic and 20th-century celebrity. Without rest, he traveled the world in pursuit of fame, money, recognition, and powerful allies. All this he did for one thing, which was concern for independent Poland. It was Paderewski who directly inspired President Woodrow Wilson himself to make the signing of the Versailles Treaty dependent on the ultimatum by which the independent Polish state was created. His arrival in Poznań was triggered on 27 December 1918 by the only victorious uprising - the Wielkopolska Uprising. Paderewski has been Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs in free Poland since 1919. After all, he had qualifications and connections, and that was and is important in diplomacy. The extent of his philanthropic activities can be seen in the way in which he expressed his last will: I consider my money to be the property of the nation, so I ask that it be handed over to the Jagiellonian University in Cracow. Paderewski was already called the king of pianists and wizard of the keyboard during his lifetime. The celebration of the century of his office by the present Sejm is the smallest effort to pay tribute to this great Pole. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u473	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Posel Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats is in favour of adopting a resolution emphasising the role of the cabinet of Ignacy Jan Paderewski in the establishment of the Second Republic of Poland. We treat the project as a natural consequence of the anniversary of Polish independence, another impulse to draw public attention to the difficult fate of our nation. 100 years ago, on 16 January 1919, after resigning to the first government of the Second Republic of Poland, Chief of State Józef Piłsudski entrusted the task of shaping the government to Ignace Paderewski, a world-famous pianist, a great patriot. Paderewski, since 1915, intensively concerting in the USA, has been agitating every opportunity and concert for Poland's independence. Even the president of the United States of America was involved in this mission. His government was already at the start of a huge success. At the Versailles conference in 1919, he was recognised by the United States and other European countries. During this time, the first free elections were held in the history of the former Russian elections. Unfortunately, the government's mission lasted only 11 months. After his resignation, Ignacy Paderewski left for exile, but he was still interested in matters of Poland until his death in 1941. After the outbreak of World War II he became part of the government of the Republic of Poland in exile. The resolution we are working on reminds and commemorates the achievements of this outstanding patriot and artist, one of the greatest Polish ambassadors in the history of the world. At this point I wanted to remind him of his words: "A true skill in both science and art and in all other activities can be gained only by daily work and daily effort. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u475	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u476	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's office. Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of the agreement between the head of state Józef Piłsudski and the president of the Polish Roman Dmowski National Committee on 16 January 1919, the government of Ignacy Jan Paderewski was established, a policy known in the international arena. It was the first Polish government after Poland regained its independence, to which all local government institutions in the former Kingdom of Poland, Galicia, Wielkopolska and Silesia Cieszynski submitted, where the first formal government was established on Polish lands, i.e. the National Council of the Duchy of Cieszyn. The government of Ignacy Jan Paderewski included both non-party ministers and representatives of the Polish Socialist Party and the Polish People's Party Left and others. Ignacy Paderewski's office helped to select a common Polish peace delegation for a peace conference in Paris, thanks to which Poland gained international recognition as a sovereign European state and ally of victorious powers, as confirmed by the Treaty of Versailles of 28 June 1919. The Paderewski government also led to democratic elections to the Legislative Sejm in January 1919 and to local government in February 1919, the formation of the State Police, the expansion of state and local administration, public education of all types, the Polish diplomatic service and other state institutions, as well as the start of economic reconstruction of the country through among others. the introduction of a market economy. On behalf of the Modern Posel Club, which clearly acknowledges the great merits of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's office, I declare my support for this resolution, which commemorates the century of his office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u477	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of reporters. I'm setting a question time for one minute. First, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recalling Ignacy Jan Paderewski, it is important to emphasize not only his role as the one who worked out a compromise between the two extreme visions of Poland, which wreak away immediately after regaining independence. On his way to Warsaw, where he led to an agreement between Józef Piłsudski and Roman Dmowski, he gave an extraordinary speech in Poznań, which indirectly became an impulse for the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising and, as a result, the liberation from the German occupation of the cradle of our statehood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u479	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz asks a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u480	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Almost everything has been said about this great man, the father of independence, Ignacy Paderewski. I, as the first Tarnowski governor, want to say one more thing, which is very important. Mrs Paderewski, Members of Parliament, Mr Marshal and the Government, I would like to remind you that the only property of Ignacy Paderewski is in the Tarnów district. It's the Bitches of the Lower. I would like to appeal to the government to take special care of this place, very important, the only one in Poland. It's a pearl when it comes to his estate, but it's also a pearl of today's music. That's where the concerts are held. This is very important. Let's not forget that, because it also shows our culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u481	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? No. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 51 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Stefan Sunday and Fr. Stanisława Suchowolca - Polish patriots murdered by unknown perpetrators (prints no. 3183 and 3224). I ask Mrs Beata Mateusiak-Pieluch to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Culture and Media at its meeting on 19 February this year. She considered a draft resolution commemorating two extraordinary priests: Stefan Niedzielak and Stanisław Suchowolec. They were both Catholic priests. They both fought against the communist regime. They both claimed the memory of Polish officers and police officers murdered in Katyn. Finally, both in 1989 were sneakyly murdered by representatives of the criminal ideology that was responsible for the Katyn crime. The only thing we can do for them right now is remember, just remember. On behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to adopt this important and touching resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u483	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Member, Mr Jan Mosiński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to the High House in relation to the draft resolution of the Sejm commemorating two patriotic priests: Stefan Niedzielak and Stanisław Suchowolec, Seym prints No. 3183 and 3224. High Izbo! 30 years ago, on the night of January 20 to 21, 1989, unknown perpetrators murdered - karate - Fr. Stefan Sunday. Fr. Stefan Niedzielak is an extraordinary figure, a soldier and a chaplain of the Home Army. During the German occupation he was an active participant in the resistance movement. After the end of the war and the beginning of the Soviet occupation in Poland, he worked in the organization Freedom and Independence. He was a longtime parish priest. St. Charles Boromeus in Warsaw. Co-founder of the Katyn Family, co-creator and inventor of the post of the Katyn Cross, who destroyed the SB cross in one night. For his work, he was murdered by unknown perpetrators. The second priest, Fr. Suchowolec - generational change, friend of Fr. George Popieluszko. When Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko said goodbye to his mother, for the last time seeing her, he said, "Mom, darling, don't worry, because if anything happens to me, God forbid, this is Stefan, who will take care of everything." That's what happened. After the murder, Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko Fr. Stefan Suchowolec in the parish in Suchowola opened the museum Fr. George Popieluszko, today B. George Popieluszko. He was a chaplain of the Confederation of Independent Poland, as well as the Podlaskie Solidarity. He was murdered on the night of January 30, 1989. He died with his dog, poisoned with carbon dioxide. Both priests, High Izbo, left a lasting, beautiful trail on their way to free Poland. They are undoubtedly well deserved in this way. May we be able to draw from their bravery and sacrifice. To sum up, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the draft resolution in the vote. At the same time, I would like to thank the Chair of the Committee and the Committee on Culture and Communications for their work on this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u485	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club... [[Member of Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Civic Platform.]] [[I'll help.]] ... Civic Platform - Civic Coalition by Mr Andrzej Halicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will support the resolution, because it is a very important resolution and it is really necessary to remember by name all those steadfast and fighting for freedom, in this case two priests murdered brutally in January 1989, but also all those who were helping those in need, those who wanted to be close to value, freedom, their beliefs, because they were many. It is characteristic that these dramatic deaths occurred in moments of breakthrough, just before the beginning of the round table talks. It's Fr. The dry-haired and our Fr. Sunday from the Warsaw parish of St. Charles Boromeus, patron of the Cathedral Cross, the Katyn families, the graves of those who died in the East. But it is also important to remember that the same thing happened to Fr. Boiler in 1976, before Fr. Obsolete, as well as others after a round table, e.g. Fr. He died - also in 1989. And this is the reason for our debate about Poland, its history and the burden that we should have, and it is not only about resolutions that are anniversary, but also it should be inside, in the heart. No power lasts forever. No authority can be unlawful and unpunished. And in this case, although the prosecution officially calls murderers unknown perpetrators, we know that it was a commando group D of Department IV of the MMA composed of trained killers who were trying to intimidate society in this way. Society cannot be intimidated, and murderers must be called by name. These kinds of systems need to be called criminals. And I think that this is also a memory and a science that should be carried by us, that all regimes, all totalitarian regimes, all attempts to strangle civil liberties, freedom, smothering beliefs, identities must be named by name and considered unworthy, criminal systems should be eliminated by all of us. The resolution is important - once again I confirm it. Let us honor the memory of priests Suchowolec and Sunday, but also of all those other nameless ones who were murdered by the so-called. The unfamiliar culprits. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u487	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the draft resolution on commemoration, commemoration of the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Stefan Sunday and Fr. Stanisław Suchowolc. The draft resolution is one of the most important intentional documents of the 8th term of the Polish Sejm. It shows the attitude to the roots of the Third Republic and the criminal legacy of the Polish People's Republic. It reminds us that as a nation and society we still have to face the ideological and formal balance of the totalitarian system occupying Poland for almost half a century. Priests Stefan Niedzielak and Stanisław Suchowolec were murdered by the so-called. unknown perpetrators in January 1989 In fact, they were murdered by communist security for being faithful sons of their homeland and of the Catholic Church, chaplains of independence. It is obvious to pay tribute to them. But priests Suchowolec and Sunday were not the last priests killed by communists. 11 July 1989, after the elections on 4 June, communist security With your hands again. The unfamiliar perpetrators were murdered by Fr. New Year's Eve of the Dead. I hope we can celebrate him at the right time. During this resolution it is worth recalling the mechanism of action of the communist apparatus of repression against Catholic priests used in the People's Poland. It is common knowledge that these unknown perpetrators, the murderers of priests Niedzielak and Suchowolc, as before Popieluszko and later of Zych, were officers of the Communist Security Service. And another thing that should also be mentioned in this resolution is that in Department IV of the Peerel Ministry of the Interior a list of Catholic clergymen was drawn up in defiance of the communist authorities and intended for extermination. There were priests mentioned here who were brutally killed, but there were others on it: Fr. Adolf Chojnacki, Bishop Ignacy Tokarczuk, Bishop Albin Małysiak or Card. Henryk Gulbinovich and almost 100 others. The case of this list is still unclear today, and the perpetrators of murders or their clients lived to an old age under the protective umbrella of honorable people who kept the word given in Magdalena Jaruzelski and Kiszczak. Thus, by adopting today's resolution, we undertake not only to investigate the murders of priests, so that at last all the so-called. unknown perpetrators from the communist SB named by name, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But we also commit ourselves to restoring a good name to those who served the communist...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u489	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u490	...prisoners, but they've come to their senses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u491	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will unanimously vote in favour of the resolution tabled on honoring priests murdered by the so-called. The unfamiliar culprits. In 2018 we celebrated the 100th anniversary of Polish independence. In just over three months we will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the free elections. So we are in a moment particularly conducive to the liberation of historical truth, eliminating all white spots in recent history. This also serves to remind the story of the two priests who died in unexplained circumstances. Honoring the memory of two priests, remembering Fr. Imperials, let us pay tribute to the victims of those years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u493	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u494	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the parliamentary draft resolution on the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Stefan Sunday and Fr. Stanisława Suchowolec - Polish patriots murdered by unknown perpetrators. Ladies and gentlemen! 30 years ago, in January 1989, the Security Service brutally murdered Fr. Stefan Sunday and Fr. Stanisława Suchowolec, who supported the actions of the anti-communist opposition and the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity). For their actions, both priests were harassed, bullied, harassed by the security apparatus of communist power. Fr. Stefan Sunday was the parish priest of St. Charles Boromeus in Powązki. He participated in the Warsaw Uprising. After the end of World War II, he became a member of the Association of Freedom and Independence. Fr. Sunday was also the co-founder of the Katyn Family and the initiator of the setting of the Katyn Cross at the Military Cemetery in Powązki. Fr. Stanisław Suchowolec, after his priestly ordination in 1983, became a vicar of the parish in Suchowola, where he founded the memorial chamber of the murdered Fr. George Popieluszko. He was also the spiritual guardian of his parents. In 1986 he became a vicar in the parish of St. The Immaculate Heart of Mary in Bialystok. He became a chaplain of the Confederation of Independent Poland in Bialystok and an underground Solidarity. Security Officers They have repeatedly tried to assassinate both priests, wanting to stop their work for free and independent Poland. The activities of priests allowed Poles to cultivate and strengthen patriotic values and independence. Both priests gave their lives for their pastoral and patriotic activities. Until now, it has not been possible to determine which security officers have committed this shameful murder. On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I would like to declare that recognizing the merits of these heroes fighting the communist dictatorship, but also bearing in mind all those victims that were not named in the draft resolution, the Poselski Club The modern project will support the presented project. Finally, referring to the speeches that have taken place here, I would like to point out that the link between any persons present in public life and these shameful acts of the Communist Security Service is unacceptable and deserves very serious consideration, but this is a very serious reflection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the role of this person in public life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u495	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club. I am, of course, closing the list of Members who have been asked questions. And I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let the characters of these two steadfast priests representing two distant generations of Polish patriots and conspirators be a constant remorse for today's Poland. Until we discover the perpetrators of their death, and above all their communist rulers, among the Polish Republic's dignitaries, we will still struggle with the redecisive supporters of the so-called. A thick line. They died for Poland to be Polish and not a place to continue the career of various communist activists who today call themselves shamelessly Europeans without blinking an eye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u497	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Melak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This death of priests mentioned today was the result of not punishing, not judging the Soviet crime of 1940 carried out on Polish officers. I had the honor and honor of knowing these two priests, working with them. I will also mention the names of others who died of natural death, but who cooperated with these priests. Together we erected the Katyn cross in Warsaw's Powązki on 31 July 1981. They were Fr. Antoni Tchaikovsky and Fr. Wacław Karłowicz, Andrzej Bobola. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! 5 March at 3 p.m. 19 in the Basilica of St. The Cross in Warsaw will be held at Holy Mass. in the intention of the murdered in Katyn, and also in the intention of those who, as a result of the crimes committed for the fact that Katyn was remembered, were murdered. I would like to invite you to join me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u499	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? No. Thank you very much. [[Mr Beata Mateusiak-Piêcha: These were statements.]] The list of Members has been closed. I'm also closing the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 52 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the debut and 50th anniversary of the death of Kazimierz Wierzyński (prints 3184 and 3225). I would like to ask Barbara Bubula to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media took place before 2 days of the parliamentary project and presented to the High Sejm a little bit changed in relation to the original text, but in its basic wording the same text of the resolution commemorating Kazimierz Wierzyński. 50 years ago, in London, exactly 13 February 1969, a few hours after the end of work on his last volume of poems, the poet died of heart. It is difficult to complement the creative path of this passionate patriot and zealous artist, singer of beauty and tradition of Christian faith, son of Kresów and exile from his homeland more symbolically. Kazimierz Wierzyński became famous in the interwar period. His debut with a poetic tome of spring and wine took place exactly 100 years ago, in 1919. Priced and known at that time, he became famous as a master of pure poetry in which the unity of language, image and internal experience was compared to a mystical experience. The young volumes of Wierzyński co-created the atmosphere of an independent homeland were a manifestation of vitality, energy and enthusiasm. Tom's tragic freedom paid tribute to the greatness of Józef Piłsudski's figure. Post-war emigration work Wierzyński is a mature hymn in honor of God's order, looking into human tragedy and suffering of the nation. From the poetry of Kazimierz Wierzyński comes one of the most beautiful metaphors of Poland's love and Polish language written in the 20th century. The poem of the Vistula and the island begins with the words "Poland lies over the Vistula." No one is a lonely island. We all know that. And for nothing. And then we read, "We feel moisture with our fingers." It's the Vistula. We can feel the roughness with our fingers. It's an island. And then the world ends with a cliff. Patriotism locked in the sterns of Kazimierz Wierzyński has power, contains tragic question marks, but is not sentimental. To this day, many Poles can say that there is a thrill on their backs when they hear or read one of the greatest poems by Kazimierz Wierzyński, written during World War II, entitled "Come down, spirit of power": "Come down, spirit of power/ (...) / Increase our strength/ Over brotherly graves, over the despair of orphans and widows (...) / This war we must win... this winter or in many years, (...) / We must fight, we must fight/ Until the last day. His poems of speech and earth and the fifth season of the year are regarded as the greatest masterpieces describing the value of the native language and the unique meaning of human fate, inscribed in the history of the nation. The poet was also the master of the description of the Polish landscape and the subtle painter of nature, and his role was described best in the poem Kazimierz Wierzyński has included his greatest achievements in nearly 20 volumes of poems so diverse that it would be possible to divide this work by several poets, and great poets. He was primarily an artist of the word. From his early years, however, he considered it his duty to participate actively in the struggle for the freedom of his country. As a student, he joined a conspiracy organization and joined the Eastern Legion during World War I. After his escape from Russian captivity, he co-founded the Polish Military Organization in Kiev. During the war with the Bolsheviks he was an officer of the Polish army and a war correspondent. During World War II and during the communist enslavement he organized cultural life in the country, visited Polish soldiers, as well as arrived with his poems and radio columns through Radio Free Europe to his country's compatriots. His words are well-known, cited for Stefan Żeromski, that if everyone left the Polish soldier, he would not be betrayed by Polish poetry. In 1968, he published a memorable volume of poems, the Black Polonaise, in which he made the biggest accusation of the communist system and claimed the truth about the Katyn crime. The black polonaise of the Communists never forgave him because he had an accusatory poem in it to his companion Wiesław, but also praise of the eternal love of Poland, over the dirt of the Polish People's Republic, in the work of the Night Homeland. High Seym! Kazimierz Wierzyński ruled the Polish word perfectly. By fascinated poetry researchers he was compared to Mickiewicz. His poems, especially the most beautiful post-war songs, the mentioned speech and earth, and the fifth season of the year, were combined with Mickiewiczowski's artistry, Pan Tadeusz. Because at the same time they are accessible in reception and are excellent in poetic art. Wierzyński touched, tangiblely loved and fertile, and rocky Polish land, fallen, decaying beech leaves, proud oak noises, soft-seeded moths, barley and sub-white. Maria Dłuska, one of the best experts in Polish poetry, wrote that Wierzyński has blood circulation in common with this land. Finally, I quote this poem, "Spoken and earth," the first verse: "They stole it from beech and birch," and then the Carpathian van carried it and then they put it in my ear, and we went together, speech and I, with a broad guest of a bright day/ And it seemed - the world would listen to us." Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u501	Thank you very much. The Sejm will hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u502	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour - but also the joy - to present the position of the club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the debut and 50th anniversary of the death of Kazimierz Wierzyński. Kazimierz Wierzyński is a unique figure in the history of Polish literature. He was from Eastern Małopolska and for the rest of his life he remembered the beauty of those sites. In Drohobych his small debut took place in 1913 in the poem 'Hey', when, when, which appeared in the journal '1863' devoted to the January Uprising. In his youth he engaged in independence conspiracy in the ranks of Polish Shooting Teams and then in the Eastern Legion. The fight in the Austro-Hungarian army, to which he was incarcerated when he did not reach the brigade of Chief Józef Piłsudski, came to me to occupy a long Russian slavery. However, the period of the First World War ended in the conspiracy of the Polish Military Organization. When the Bolshevik raid came just after regaining independence, he joined the Polish Army. The right poetic debut of Wierzyński was a volume of poems He co-founded the most famous Polish literary group Skamander. His sports passion was very significant. He edited a magazine "Przegląd Sportowy" and in 1928 behind the volume "Olympic Laur" he received a gold medal at the 9th Summer Olympics literary competition. It is amazing, for example, to describe the performances of the Spanish goalkeeper Zamora and the reaction of fans in the poem "Match football." In later years, in subsequent volumes he referred to the fate of his homeland more and more tragic, and during World War II most of his family was murdered. Thus, his poetry had such a pronunciation, e.g. On September 1st, 1944, the National Army's solution, the Moscow process, they shouted freedom, the obituary. But in the poem "Night's Homeland," he expressed his confidence that Poland would survive the communist occupation: "Faithfulness of conscience/ Sense beyond defeat," "It was ours/It is and will remain." When Wierzyński died in exile, in an unbreakable environment, London news wrote: With the deepest sorrow in our hearts, we say goodbye to the poet of freedom, the creator of the incomparable, conscious of his art and his message, a faithful friend, a companion of works and fights, the best of us who left in unforgettable poems a testimony of our experiences and emotions. It can be said that Wierzyński's work format is just behind Zbigniew Herbert, who described him as a seismograph writing down the nation's contribution, and before Jack Kaczmarski, who devoted one of his texts to him. I believe that Wierzynski deserves an annual patronage, not just an occasional resolution. But it will be valuable if this commemoration of the poet contributes to the release of all his works. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the poem, the death sentence dedicated to Józef Piłsudski Wierzyński wrote: "My horses, feed! Tall and vindictive, I sentence you to greatness. Without her, it's lost everywhere. I think that the Marshal's will, as the poet has formulated it, is still extremely current. The Law and Justice Club supports the draft resolution commemorating Kazimierz Wierzyński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u503	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u504	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is very good that today, on the day of our mother tongue, we are pleased to debate the resolution on Kazimierz Wierzyński. Sometimes it happens happily, as it has now been lucky to consider this draft resolution, that the cultural committee, although not so often so often, has the opportunity to deal with the characters and phenomena actually directly related to this culture. That's what happened this time. And I think that's why it's universal agreement to support this resolution. In fact, Kazimierz Wierzyński had the chance to be on equal footing with other colleagues from the group of skamanders to be valued, carried on his hands, honored, because it was so with most of the others. However, he was pushed out of mass imagination, perhaps just a little because of not only his lyrics, but also his activities or political commitment, because it was. You could do a lot. Speaking, and 3 minutes is not enough, and the rapporteur has presented his character and work perfectly, so if you allow me, as such a memento, I will read a passage from one of Kazimierz Wierzyński's poems, which, I think, is worth taking to heart today: don't talk about Poles and Jews, it's a minefield. Don't talk about Poles and Ukrainians, it's a minefield. Don't talk about Poles and Czechs, it's a minefield. Don't talk about Poles and Lithuanians, it's a minefield. Don't go into the minefield, you're gonna get blown up. There are others we've climbed before, and there's nothing to talk about either. That's how it used to be, that's how it is now, and that's how it's always gonna be, as long as we're gonna feed on the meadow of stupified donkeys. And with this word by Kazimierz Wierzyński on the 100th anniversary of his debut, on the 50th anniversary of his death I wanted to leave the High House and be glad that we could make such a resolution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u505	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have great pleasure, great joy and honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club 15 on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the debut and 50th anniversary of the death of Kazimierz Wierzyński. You can talk and write a lot about Kazimierz Wierzyński. The master of the word, the author of sayings, which entered not so much into everyday but the erudite Polish language. He wrote about Poland and Poland, both in free Poland and in emigration. He was successful in international poeticism. He won the 9th Olympics literary competition. During the period when communist darkness reigned over Poland, Wierzyński, through independent media, played an outstanding role in supporting the spirit of resistance against the Soviet occupation of Poland and the communist system imposed on Poland. Therefore, we are pleased that thanks to the Club of Poselski Kukiz (15 everywhere and always standing on the basis of the sovereignty and independence of Poland, the Polish Sejm in the resolution of the venerable poetic size of Wierzyński states that the Sejm of the Most High Republic of Poland, recognizing the special importance of the artistic achievements, sacrificial service of the country, as well as steadfast fidelity in maintaining the spirit of sovereignty of the Polish nation, pays tribute to Kazimierz Wierzyński on the 100th anniversary of his debut and 50th anniversary of his death. The Kukiz Club15 will fully support the resolution presented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u507	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u508	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Kazimierz Wierzyński is one of the most outstanding Polish writers of the 20th century, and at the same time an inconclusive and even full of contradictions - poet, playwright, sports journalist, radio columnist, co-founder of the Skamander poetic group, author of the outstanding biography of Fryderyk Chopin. Kazimierz Wierzyński was a semi-Austrian and became one of the largest Polish writers. From September 1939 until his death in 1969 he was in exile, but at this point we may wonder if he was not more concerned with Poland than Gombrowicz at all times. He devoted almost every single song to his country. He was well described by Zbigniew Herbert, saying that Wierzyński was like a seismograph writing down the nation's bottom. That's what happened. The creativity of this poet like no other reflected the mood of the Polish society. His poetic debut, volume spring and wine of 1919, was maintained in an optimistic convention. However, after the death of Józef Piłsudski in 1936, the collection of "Tragic Freedom" stands out with pessimism and concern for Poland and a clear fascination with the character of the Marshal. In later years Wierzyński noted further phrases in his work. His last volume of poems, the Black Polonaise, published in symbolic 1968, is full of references to the contemporary realities of the Polish People's Republic and references to the romantic myth of the artist fighting the tyranny of power. However, with all his love for Poland and Poland, Wierzyński noticed national shortcomings, such as excessive nationalism or a tendency to dispute, which he could stigmatize. Today, when we live in a divided society, in times of often Polish-Polish war, his works especially deserve to be reminded and understood. I therefore hope that through this resolution we will be able to... that this resolution will become an excuse for e.g. the issue of programs about Wierzyński on public television or the release by the Ministry of Culture of the collection containing its most important works. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Our club will support this draft resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u509	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u510	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the parliamentary draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the debut and 50th anniversary of the death of Kazimierz Wierzyński. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2019 it is 100 years since the poetic debut and 50 years since the death of Kazimierz Wierzyński - one of the biggest Polish poets of the 20th century. The beginning of his work dates back to the 20th interwar period, when he was friends with Julian Tuwim and Jan Lechon and was one of the creators of the Skamander artistic group. Honestly, when you think about what an artist the word was, you wonder how little Wierzyński is present in such a, I would say, mass culture. He wrote nearly 20 volumes of poems. His youthful work, full of energy and enthusiasm, was part of the atmosphere of his independent homeland. Postwar emigration poetry is in turn an anthem, describing the human tragedy and suffering of the nation. Kazimierz Wierzyński was an artist of the word, who actively participated in the fight for the freedom of his homeland from the earliest years. During World War I he fought in the East Legion, during the war with the Bolsheviks he was an officer of the Polish army and a war correspondent. During and after the Second World War, during the communist enslavement, he organized cultural life in the country and visited Polish soldiers, as well as through Radio Free Europe, he came with his poems and radio columns to his compatriots in the country. In 1968, he published a memorable volume of poems, a black polonaise in which he made a heavy accusation of the communist system and claimed the truth about the Katyn crime. Recognising the special importance of the artistic achievements and sacrificial service of the country of Kazimierz Wierzyński, on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern declaration of support for this draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u511	Thank you very much. Two Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Piotr Pyzik, first Member of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is famous that 100 years ago he debuted a beautiful Polish independence activist, soldier and conspirator, the son of an Austrian - Kazimierz Wierzyński. Such was the incredible strength of Polish culture, the extraordinary magnetism of Polishness despite partitions, persecution and sacrifice, the sacrifices that had to be made. The whole work of Kazimierz Wierzyński was the apotheosis of Polishness in every shade: from youth and enthusiasm to tragedy and the will to survive from metaphysics. For Kazimierz Wierzyński, Polishness was not abnormal, it was a great and unwavering love. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u513	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Małecki, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The adoption of a resolution reminding Kazimierz Wierzyński, commemorating Kazimierz Wierzyński, is also a good opportunity to try to draw attention to the memory of Kazimierz Wierzyński, his works to a wide range of Poles, especially young people, because it is difficult to have a more pronounced example of such a hot patriot, who at the same time gets his work into Polish hearts very easily. His poems are not only beautiful, but also very clear, very simple in reception and it is worth to draw the attention of the Ministry of Culture, Polish Television, Polish Radio to the fact that the work of Kazimierz Wierzyński restores universal knowledge, as he deserves - and his works. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u515	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 53 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 145th anniversary of Wincent Witos' birth (prints 3182 and 3191). I ask you, Mrs Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 145th anniversary of Wincent Witos' birth. This project was adopted in the Committee on Culture, which I am very pleased about, because actually the whole life of Witos shows how difficult the Polish story is, how dramatic the curves are and that nothing is easy and given once and for all. Vincent Witos is one of our most outstanding politicians, and everyone agrees on that. We know that he is also considered the father of our independence. From the beginning he worked throughout his adult life - at the beginning in peasant, agricultural environments, then in the People's Party, and then also in the Polish People's Party. From the beginning he was actively involved in activities aimed at rebuilding the Polish state. This was a great task, all the more so as it was very important to realise that the peasant environments are also full citizens who should take an active part in our country's social and political life. This turned out to be very important in 1920, when during the war with Russia, Soviet Witos encouraged and encouraged the peasants to participate actively in the fight for Poland, to resist Russian propaganda. It was very important at that time to show that peasants were also citizens, citizens of a state with full rights. Witos served as Prime Minister in our country twice more and always cared about working for the country. He cared very much, he was very opposed to the sovereign debt. He thought that if you borrow money, then you have to give it back, and he thought it was very important to keep an eye on the budget in these difficult times. These assumptions were the basis for easier economic reforms. Witos lost his last premiere after the May bombing. Then the trial of many democratic opposition activists took place, Witos was convicted in the Brest trial. After he left the prison, he left Poland, he was in exile. He returned to Poland during the German invasion of Poland, at the beginning of the war. He was arrested by the Germans, but refused any cooperation with them and was faithful to his ideals to the end, not subject to any influence. All along the political path he began, he was faithful to all principles for the rest of his life. And maybe it's time to remind you that there was a Brest trial and these accusations and convictions haven't been revoked. Maybe after 100 years of our independence, we need to think about it. Vincenty Witos died in 1945 and the words on his monument are significant because they reflect the history of his entire life, his work: And Poland is to last forever. I think those are very beautiful words to close the story about Witos. The Commission has adopted this resolution and I hope that all clubs will also be in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u517	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Robert Kołakowski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 145th anniversary of Wincent Witos' birth. Vincent Witos is one of those great Poles whom we call fathers reborn in 1918 of our independence. As the creator and leader of the Polish folk movement, he contributed to the revival and formation of free Polish. He was one of the creators of the People's Party and the Polish People's Party, a Member of the Austrian Council of State, chairman of the Polish Liquidation Commission, and in the period of the Second Republic he served three times as Prime Minister. In his activity he placed the independence of the Polish state first. Among the priorities, he also pointed to the democratic state system and peasant matters and the defence of people's interests. We can consider Wincent Witos's greatest credit to bring the Polish peasant to the nationalization in the Second Republic. It was he who introduced the peasant layer with an awakened cultural and political and economic awareness into the social life of the country. Witos should also be attributed the merit of the patriotic awareness of Polish peasants, which was the most powerful example of which was the Polish-Bolshevik war and their subsequent conspiracy struggle during World War II. It is also worth mentioning that Witos, after the outbreak of World War II, when he was interned by the Germans, rejected the proposal to create a collaborating government. And after the war he also did not cooperate with the communist authorities. However, together with Stanisław Mikołajczyk, he again formed the Polish People's Party, a party referring to the tradition of the Polish folk movement, having all the predisposition to play a significant role in the reconstruction and development of the destroyed country. This possibility, however, ruled out leaving Poland in the political sphere of influence of the Soviet Union. Vincenty Witos died in October 1945, and his folk movement, as we know, did not survive the confrontation with the communist power imposed on Poland. The Law and Justice Club will support the draft resolution on commemorating the 145th anniversary of Wincent Witos' birth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u519	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. Mr Owa provided his statement in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the draft resolution on commemorating the 145th anniversary of Wincent Witos' birth. Vincenty Witos, such a Polish cyncinate, three times Prime Minister of the Republic, outstanding politician, activist of the folk movement, deserves to be fully remembered. Therefore, the proposed resolution in this form is valid and necessary, even though it is not taken on some special occasion, a round anniversary concerning the character and activity of Vincent Witos. However, the adoption of such a resolution should not be used to manipulate Polish history. For in the resolution there is e.g. a record of a bloody military assassination by Józef Piłsudski. It must be made clear here that this demonstration would not have such a bloody character if General Juliusz Tarnawa-Malczewski, Minister of Military Affairs in Witos' office, had not been ordered to shoot the soldiers under his command. In turn, the order to bomb the capital was issued by the head of the Aerospace Department of the Ministry of Military Affairs of General Wlodzimierz Zagórski. These orders were accepted by Prime Minister Witos and President of the Republic of Poland Stanisław Wojciechowski. Another false record also applies to the Brest Process. The Brest trial, also known as the Centrolev process, was undoubtedly political, because Polish politicians sat on the bench of the accused. Nevertheless, it is important to remember about the role that Centrolev played in the reality of that time. To a large extent, he served the Soviet Union. In this resolution, the reservation also calls for the refusal of Witos to cooperate with the occupier and not to cooperate with the authorities of PKWN. It is not known what this apparent distinction between cooperation and cooperation is supposed to serve. These are the same words. Would this serve to justify those who cooperated with the Soviets? It should be clearly written: Vincent Witos did not cooperate with the German invader, nor with the Soviet invader. PKWN was not for nothing but a Soviet agent, and his real power in Poland in 1945 was none. By Jakub Berman himself, PKWN was called a scornful snitch. The commemoration of Vincent Witos should not serve such manipulation of the Polish past. Even if he made mistakes in his political career, it does not diminish his merit. He was undoubtedly an outstanding man, and for this reason we should celebrate him with such a resolution, but let us remember that the content of this resolution should be more unambiguous. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u521	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Vincent Witos is one of the most outstanding statesmen in the history of the last century. Thank you very much, Marshal, for presenting the report on the committee's work and for the words about Vincent Vitos spoken from his heart, with understanding, in the spirit of the patriotic love of the country. While Vincenty Witos, together with other politicians, participated in the very uprising of the Second Republic in 1918, whether we like it or not, we owe it to him to keep the Polish state within the then borders in 1920. His political mission has also integrated and shaped the Polish society through the transformation of a stereotypical peasant of the country into a Pole, a patriot and a true citizen. As the leader of the folk movement, he encouraged the idea of Polish peasants, representing almost 75% of the then society. Wincenty Witos three times received the honor of serving as Prime Minister of the Republic. Wincent Witos's first office worked 433 days, of which 254 days fell for the period of the Polish-Bolshevik war and those events which later were probably the seed of his discrepancies or of Joseph Piłsudski's aversion to him. It is about the resignation made by Józef Piłsudski on the hands of Vincent Witos, when the Prime Minister took responsibility for the decisions. It was at that time that he addressed the Italian Brotherhood: If it were necessary, we must fight to the death, for it is better to die than to live in chains, a better death than a vile slavery. These are events that later took place and ended the operation of Vincent Witos' third office... And the May coup, and the Brest trial... I do not wish to argue with my previous speaker, historians and witnesses of these events have said many times about that time. Let us celebrate this memory and may this time be, [[♪ The bell ♪]] this resolution is a good time to start thinking about rehabilitation of the three times Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, a great Pole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u523	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u524	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Posel Club on the draft resolution commemorating Wincent Witos on the 145th anniversary of his birth. Vincenty Witos was born on 21 January 1874 in Wierzchosławice near Tarnow. He was one of the most well-deserved Polish politicians, local government officials, folk activists and three times Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. Since his early youth he has been active in the People's Party, as well as in the Polish People's Party, the Piast, which he was the most outstanding leader for many years of political activity. He was a Member of the Galician National Sejm and a Member of the Austrian State Council. He was also a member of the National League. On 28 October 1918, he became president of the Polish Liquidation Commission, which was de facto a Polish government in Western Galicia. The Commission submitted to the government in Warsaw on 11 November 1918 after the surrender of the central states. Vincent Witos has been actively involved in actions aimed at restoring the state, defending its borders and unifying it. Since 1919, he has been a Member of the Polish Parliament, three times headed by the Polish Government, contributing to the economic and social stability of Poland. He had common sense views on public finances, which I would like to emphasise in particular. In 1926 the government of Witos was - it must be said - overthrown as a result of the May coup. In 1930, the Sanatorium authorities accused him of the so-called. Brest trial and sentenced to a year and a half in prison. Since 1933, he has been in exile in Czechoslovakia, where after the German troops entered Poland, he returned to Poland and called for the defence of his homeland. Right after the start of World War II, he was interned by the Germans. He received a proposal to set up a collaborating government that he strongly rejected. From 28 February 1941, under constant supervision of the Gestapo, he stayed in Wierzchosławice. After the war ended, he became involved in the reconstruction of the people's movement. He died on October 31, 1945, it is worth noting that as the honorary President of the Polish People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen! Vincenty Witos was one of the most outstanding Polish politicians, he served Poland well, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We therefore have no doubt that the draft resolution under discussion must be supported, and the Modern Club will support this draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u525	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u526	On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on commemorating the 145th anniversary of Wincent Witos' birth, print No 3191. By adopting this resolution, today we have the opportunity to pay tribute to the outstanding Pole and undoubtedly the most outstanding leader of the folk movement in Poland. Vincenty Witos was a tireless defender of Polishness, he was a politician who played an extremely important role in Poland's history in the first half of the 20th century. He was one of the undisputed fathers of independence of Poland. Vincent Witos played a key role in the efforts to rebuild the state, defend its borders and unify it. He called on peasants to focus on the authorities of the reborn Poland and defend the independence of the country, reject Bolshevik propaganda and fight for the future of the nation and the Polish state. We must remember that after 123 years of partitions, the combination of all for working together for independent Poland was a challenge. Three times - in 1920 and 1926 - he served as Prime Minister in the governments of the Second Republic of Poland, and after Poland regained independence he was a permanent Member of the Sejm for 14 years. From a poor family in Podtarnowskie Wierzchosławice local government, politician and stateman, for whom Poland's independence, security and development were the highest goal, left behind a huge heritage. His message, his words, are still valid. Let me quote his words: When the Polish business begins, the party's business ends. This maxim is today a foreign ruling party, which completely subjected the state apparatus to defend and safeguard the interests of the party, not of Poland. Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform - Civic Coalition will vote in favour of the resolution on commemorating the 145th anniversary of Wincent Witos' birth.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u527	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 54 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project signed in Katowice on 11 December 2018 (prints No 3194 and 3240). I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u528	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project. This agreement was signed on 11 December in Katowice. The joint committees were working on this project today. The committees unanimously welcome this proposal and strongly present it to the High House for adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u529	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Maciej Małecki on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u530	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project. This is a crucial moment when it comes to Poland's energy independence. This project, ratification of this agreement, work on the Baltic Pipe project is a milestone on the road to ensuring Poland's complete independence from gas supply from Russia. It must be said very strongly and very clearly that when the Baltic Pipe pipeline is completed and when gas from deposits in the North Sea of 10 billion m3 can flow from the north to the Polish Coast, Poland will be completely independent of Russia. This contract, this project, this Baltic Pipe pipeline, is the fulfillment of the will of the dead. President Lech Kaczyński. The law and Justice, which always upholds the energy security of Poland, which security in the supply of raw materials to Poland has written down as one of the pillars of Polish politics, of course supports this bill and urges the High House to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u531	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obrycki, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u532	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition club vis-à-vis the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project. This is an important agreement, which may result in a significant increase in the security of natural gas supply to the Republic of Poland over the next few years, thereby strengthening its geoeconomic position in Europe and the security of Poland. The diversification of sources of natural gas supply as a raw material not only needed for our economy, but also increasingly as an instrument of economic pressure, often blackmail from producer countries, which treat raw materials policy in political terms, was at the heart of the project of building the LNG regasification terminal in Świnoujście. The Baltic Pipe project will expand the implementation of the idea of diversification of sources of supply, energy independence. In addition, it will actually be a kind of north gate for gas supply up to 10 billion m3 per year, which is 60% annual demand, which together with a terminal with a capacity of 5 billion m3 gas per year will provide Poland with nearly total demand and we will be able to export surpluses to other partners. There will also be the possibility to reverse and transport gas to Denmark. The Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition believes that this is the right way forward and the continuation of the idea of independence from one supplier country, diversification of sources of supply, which is already taking place in connection with the LNG terminal in Świnoujście built under the Civic Platform, so we support the proposed and procedated bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u533	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Kukiz Posel Club15, Mr Piotr Appeal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u534	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that no one reasonable will vote against this project, no one who believes that the Polish state right is something important, so Kukiz15 will also support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u535	Thank you. Now on behalf of the club, Mr Adam Szłapka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, it's a very good project. Energy security is one of the cornerstones of our security, and it is good that this agreement is finalizing, and it is good that we have a chance to diversify natural gas supplies, to become independent of one of the most powerful suppliers, namely Gazprom. So that's a very good direction. At this point it is worth recalling that we were very close to adopting a very similar solution when the analogue was prepared between 1997 and 2001. That's when it was stopped. And it was a very big mistake because it stopped the possibility of diversifying gas for several years. So that, in support of this project, I would like to point out that it is worth to have a similar determination - it is about determination on gas supply for Poland - the government has shown itself in diversification when it comes to other energy sources, e.g. coal, because we are not moving away from government policy, from coal energy, and this direction is obvious from our point of view, and not moving away from coal energy results in the fact that we are importing more and more coal from Russia. And that, too, may have very serious consequences for us in the future. In any case, Modern is definitely in favour of this bill and we will vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u537	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u538	Dear Marshal, On behalf of the PSL-UED Club, I support the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project signed in Katowice on 11 December 2018 (print No 3194).
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u539	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 55 of the agenda: First reading of the draft Act on amendment of the Commercial Companies Code Act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland (Print No 3142). I ask the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland of Mr.Paweł Mucha to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u540	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland Mr Andrzej Duda a bill amending the Commercial Companies Code Act. A detailed argument containing the justification of the bill presented is contained in the application submitted by the President, Parliamentary Printing No. 3142. For this reason, I will limit myself only to making the most important arguments that led to the President's presentation with the initiative discussed today. As you know, a limited liability company in Poland is the most frequently chosen legal form of the company enabling it to conduct business activity. A number of responsibilities are linked to its functioning. One of them is the need to hold an annual meeting of shareholders to approve the company's activity reports or to grant discharge to the members of the Management Board. In many other matters relating to the company's current business, it is also necessary to convene a meeting of shareholders in order to adopt the relevant resolutions. As practice shows, the organisation of a meeting of shareholders is often a technical and organisational problem. Partners in a large number of limited liability companies are foreign persons, both physical and legal. If the shareholder is a foreign entity or a foreigner, or if at least one of the partners is present on a daily basis outside Poland, the holding of the shareholders is a challenge for both the company and the partners. Consequently, the possibility of holding a meeting of shareholders using electronic means of communication, i.e. also over the Internet, it would certainly be an attractive alternative for entrepreneurs. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the current state of law, the Commercial Companies Code provides that, as a general rule, the shareholders of a limited liability company are held at the company's registered office, meaning the place where the company's registered office is located. By way of exception, if the partnership agreement or all the partners so agree in writing, it is possible to hold a meeting of the shareholders elsewhere in the territory of the Republic of Poland. At the same time, many of the existing legal solutions are a more or less effective attempt to remedy the situation of the inability to hold shareholders' meetings using electronic means. Currently, with respect to limited liability companies, it is only possible to adopt shareholders' resolutions via the Internet when the company was established in the online S24 system. In addition, the adoption of a resolution in this manner requires the participation of all shareholders. As a result, the existing solution excludes in practice the possibility for shareholders to adopt resolutions electronically in the case of a large majority of limited liability companies. In legal literature, most posts do not recognise the admissibility of electronic meetings of shareholders. The commentators in the position of inadmissibility of the electronic meetings of the shareholders are prohibited from holding such meetings in the Article. 234 § 2 Codek of commercial companies which are required to hold a meeting of shareholders in the territory of the Republic of Poland. It is therefore entirely appropriate to introduce a clear statement by the legislator allowing the general assembly of shareholders using electronic means of communication. The intention of the submitted project is to introduce a broad understanding of the institutions of electronic meetings of shareholders. In the literature of the subject, the conduct of meetings in the form of teleconferences or video conferencing shall be distinguished. The assembly consists of transmitting by electronic means the meetings held at the place specified in the articles of association to other places where the partners are gathered. On the other hand, the videoconference is a kind of electronic connection between partners staying in different locations. A partner may be in a place other than the place of the meeting, but at a place indicated by the company. In the case of a videoconference, the partner may join it from any place having access to electronic communications used to conduct a videoconference. The project leaves the choice of the term in which the above mentioned above. forms are to be held by electronic meetings, the freedom of shareholders expressed in the relevant provisions in the articles of association. At the same time, despite the adoption of an electronic form of assembly, this does not exempt the company from determining the place where the managing partner meeting, together with the minutes and possible bodies of the company, will physically arrive. It should be pointed out that, in the current legal state, it is possible to adopt resolutions using means of direct distance communication in the case of general meetings of shareholders and supervisory boards of both limited liability companies and public limited liability companies. After analysing the functioning of similar regulations in other European Union countries, it should be pointed out that the holding of electronic meetings of shareholders is acceptable in many European counterparts of the Polish limited liability company. For example, it is worth mentioning the German company GmbH at this point. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the scope of the proposed solution, it should be pointed out that it is largely modelled on the rules currently in force in the Commercial Companies Code governing the organisation of general meetings of shareholders, in particular the regulation of the Article. 406 Commercial Companies Code, which provides that the statutes of a public limited liability company may allow participation in a general meeting using electronic means of communication. In order to effectively implement the proposed regulation, it is proposed to add an Article. 234 Commercial Companies Code providing for the possibility to hold meetings of shareholders by electronic means. Given the digital form of resolutions that are taken at the electronic meeting of shareholders, I would like to say that according to the draft, the minutes of the meeting of shareholders held electronically constitute an audio-video record. The record of audio-video enables compliance with the requirements laid down in the Commercial Companies Code, according to which the protocol should contain information on the correctness of convening the shareholders' meeting and its ability to adopt resolutions, listing the adopted resolutions, the number of votes cast for each resolution and the objections raised. With regard to e.g. reporting obligations, the electronic minutes of the shareholders' meeting will require appropriate transcription in order to obtain a material medium of resolutions. Resolutions adopted at the electronic meeting of shareholders will be included in the minutes book in the form of transcription of the electronic meeting of shareholders. At the same time, evidence of the convening of the shareholders' meeting by the Management Board and the audio-video record of the shareholders' meeting will be attached to the transcription protocol book. In selecting an electronic meeting of shareholders, it is not necessary to attach a list of attendance with the signatures of the participants in the meeting of shareholders, because the fact of the presence or absence of the partner will be provided by the record of audio-video as a protocol from the meeting of shareholders. The transcription of the electronic meeting of shareholders should include, in particular, information on the resolutions adopted and the objections raised by the shareholders at the electronic meeting. As in the case of resolutions adopted under the procedure laid down in Article. 240 Commercial Companies Code, transcription of the protocol containing information about adopted resolutions will be subject to notification in the electronic system of the registry court, among others. in the case of approval of the financial statements or of a resolution on profit-sharing or loss-covering. Security of resolutions in this form will be ensured, among others. the actual possibility for each partner to record a meeting of shareholders. In this way, it will be possible for the partner to prove that he had lodged an objection at the shareholders' meeting, which would enable action to be taken to annul or repeal the resolution. The draft amendment also refers to the issue of secret voting, indicating that it is permissible to adopt personal resolutions at meetings of shareholders held by electronic means, and for obvious reasons the regulation of the Article will not apply. 247 § 2 of the Commercial Companies Code. At this point, it is necessary to stress that the new law does not impose an obligation on limited liability companies to organise a meeting of shareholders by electronic means, but gives rise to the right to take such a decision. Each company could decide on its own whether and how to benefit from the statutory regulation. The provision set out in this amendment, as well as the rules on the electronic holding of general meetings of shareholders, is technologically neutral, i.e. does not impose any specific technical solutions, which is an advantage and indicates the possibility of adapting the application of these provisions to changing circumstances and technical progress. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the light of the above considerations, it is appropriate to consider the legislative intervention aimed at amending and clarifying the rules relating to the arrangements for holding meetings of members of limited liability companies using electronic means of communication to be fully justified. I would like to point out that the project submitted is the result of the work of the Office of the National Council for Development, Local Government and Civil Initiatives in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland. It was created in cooperation with the Centre im. Adam Smith, whose representatives, with the president of the centre, are present in the Chamber of the High House. Thank you for this initiative, which was reported by the business community. The project was also consulted as part of the work of the National Development Council. Taking all the above into account, on behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland, I would like to ask for a favourable consideration of the proposed bill amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and to undertake further legislative work on the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u541	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the bill submitted to the Sejm by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act. High Izbo! Minister Paweł Mucha described in detail the objectives of the amendment, its legitimacy and the need for trade, with the need to facilitate, improve the use of new electronic means of communication, introduce such a form of communication into commercial companies. In particular, there are various forms of communication by electronic means and activities in companies aimed at using electronic means of communication. This amendment will undoubtedly contribute to the efficiency of companies, the easier taking of various kinds of acts in companies, speeding up turnover, and perhaps also to establishing, the development of entrepreneurship in this form. So that without a doubt the proposed amendment serves economic turnover. Law and Justice supports the proposed amendment and, of course, recommends further work on it in the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u543	Thank you. Now Mrs Maria Małgorzata Janyska on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u544	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The presidential project that we are discussing at first reading today is a project that is making a change that is difficult to assess today. It is difficult to assess whether it is big or small, but it will probably be a change which will make it easier for some entrepreneurs to operate in this narrow way. Some of them will probably benefit from their form. Mr President recognised, as can be seen in the statement of reasons, that the organisation of a meeting of shareholders is often a technical and organisational problem. It is probably possible to argue, in terms of this frequency, on what basis the conclusion was drawn that this is a technical and organisational problem, because this should be analysed in exactly the opposite categories in terms of facilitation, but because the provision is optional, I do not think it makes sense to argue with this. There is no order to use it, of course, there is freedom. I just wanted to draw attention to the part of the justification that refers to the effects of this change, this amendment. I think that these effects given in the explanatory memorandum are clearly exaggerated. Namely, it is said that this amendment will stimulate the entrepreneurship of natural and legal persons considering starting a business in Poland in the form of a company from o.o. by improving organisational procedures and that revenue can be expected to increase, in particular through indirect taxes and a reduction in the unemployment rate. There is no source data to draw so far-reaching conclusions here. On this occasion, I just wanted to remind you that entrepreneurs are constantly pointing out a very important barrier to their activities, which is bad lawmaking: without consultation, without analysing the effects of regulation for entrepreneurs, in a hurry, very often without consulting the Council of Social Dialogue, without allowing such a real, reliable debate in the Sejm. This is a big problem that is a barrier to them. In this context, I will remind you of the presidential project, which was adopted in 2016, from print No 807. These were changes to the existing law on freedom of business. That is when such a provision was introduced. I warned you all along that it would be a wishful thinking recipe that he wouldn't help entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, I wasn't wrong. It was a provision which referred to the fact that an assessment should be made of the expected impact of a draft law or regulation on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises and that this should be a separate part of the justification. Minister, see how many legal acts have passed through the Sejm since then and how many of these assessments were in the justifications. It's about what you introduced back then. I told you it was a wish recipe, and he remained a wish recipe. In the work of the committee, we will probably continue to confront other legal acts, which will probably be discussed in the Sejm soon, which probably contain similar solutions, such as those concerning a simple public limited liability company, for which these forms of electronic communication are written so that they can be included in these acts. It's fair to reconcile. Of course, we're in favour of working on this on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u545	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski is now on behalf of the Kukiz15 club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u546	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Today we are discussing a presidential bill amending the Commercial Companies Code Act, which provides for a new provision that will allow for the holding of meetings of shareholders, in short, by means of a video conference, in the form of a video conference. If I had to evaluate this project so briefly, I would just say, "Bravo, that's it! The Internet is the future and here, to be honest, I do not understand these doubts by Mrs Janyska, who puts this into question, says that such rules, which are intended to make it easier, such rules as are intended to encourage entrepreneurs to start new limited liability companies, to act in such a way that these facilitations will not lead to an increase in the amount and value, but also to the opportunities offered by the activity in the form of limited liability companies. Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion - for the sake of clarity, of course, the Kukiz15 club fully supports this solution - I would like to raise two points here. The first is related to entrepreneurs. It is very good that the President has listened to the voice of the entrepreneurs. I can only thank here also on behalf of many entrepreneurs who have just paid attention to this problem, such a flaw, a difficulty in over-formalising the decision-making process in limited liability companies. But there are two aspects. The first concerns taxes when we are talking about entrepreneurs. I think it would be good if the President took a clear position on facilitating the simplification of the tax system in Poland. The parliament of this term has amended the provisions of tax laws several times, while I still feel that there is polishing, powdering this tax law, which should simply be changed in a thorough, fundamental way, but above all it should be simplified, first of all. The second issue relates to the Internet itself. Well, ladies and gentlemen, since you notice, and it is right that the Internet is the future, you can do a lot of things on the Internet today, you can shop on the Internet, you can do business on the Internet, then the question remains why in Poland you cannot vote on the Internet. The Kukiz Club15 is a strong supporter and advocate of a solution such as e-voting, i.e. voting on the Internet. And from this point on, I encourage the President, the representatives of the President's law firm, to support, support these modern forms of voting that will actually increase the participation of citizens, that is to say, increase the level of democracy in Poland. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in summary, the draft law submitted by your President on the amendment of the Commercial Companies Code Act absolutely deserves full support and the Kukiz Club will support this project. Secondly, we pay attention and cordially, and kindly claim new tax law, clear, transparent and simple tax law. And thirdly, we also ask, as kindly as possible, for both the President and the High House to lean on the issue of online voting so that you do not fear it. The Internet is the future, so I hope that after this good step that is being taken at this moment, the next steps will be taken consistently. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u547	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the opinion of the Modern Club regarding the draft law on amending the Commercial Companies Code Act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. To be honest, Minister, I'm impressed. This bill is a remarkable work. This is the second law that comes out of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, which aims to make life easier for entrepreneurs and help them. The first one was already mentioned by Mrs Janyska. I'll admit that I've been wondering what to say about this bill, and I've reminded myself of this one text from Bear, that it's a law as far as you can, really. I think that at the moment this activity of the President should move towards really important matters. I have been an entrepreneur all my life, and I can only say today that this is a law that we need and it will be useful as entrepreneurs, and it will certainly make life easier for us, but it seems that this bill could have been handled differently, otherwise it could have been reported. You can thank the President for listening to the voices that probably appeared at meetings with entrepreneurs who suggested such solutions. And what can I say? Surely the Modern will support this project, because we think it is right and it will make life easier for businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u549	Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. As the first Mr Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The limited liability company is the most frequently chosen legal form of the company, enabling it to conduct business activity. If the shareholder is a foreign entity or a foreigner, or if one of the partners is abroad on a daily basis, the organisation of a convention may pose a problem. With today's electronic capabilities, it seems that the holding of a meeting of shareholders using electronic means of communication should be a solution for entrepreneurs to facilitate their activities in this regard. In the current legal state, it is possible to adopt resolutions via the Internet, but to a very limited extent. In practice, this is excluded in most limited liability companies. The proposed amendment therefore seems to meet the expectations of entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, there have been some problems in the proposed solution, such as the secret vote, hence my question. Is the entry § 4 of the proposed Article. 234 rules out secret ballots? Therefore, in the event of such a need, the shareholders' meeting should be held in a normal way, i.e. classically, and whether, in spite of this problem, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the proposed solution will improve the functioning of limited liability companies?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u551	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question. Minister, if the proposed amendment is adopted, will it be sufficiently secure to confirm the identity of the terms of reference of each of the partners or their representatives participating in the assembly by electronic means? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u553	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Would the Minister like to speak? Please, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Very briefly, as well as a non-controversial project, and late time. I think it is worth saying that although the government's position is not yet in place, it is formulated, the Minister of Justice has prepared a draft government position. This draft government position is, of course, a positive position. This is a very good initiative, on the one hand, for which we should thank the President and the Office, the law firm that supports him, and the Minister who presents this project. Therefore, full support from the government will be official, and we do not exclude a certain need to pay attention to technical issues, in particular the coherence of the solutions proposed by the project, with solutions already in force in the Commercial Companies Code for the public limited liability company, because it should not be so that regulations relating to the same voting mode by electronic communication differ from one another, but these are technical issues that I think will easily eliminate during the legislative process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u555	Thank you very much. Please, the representative of the applicants, the deputy head of the President's Office, Mr Paweł Mucha.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u556	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for the vote of support that has been expressed by representatives of all clubs, by all those who speak. I believe that this change is not as trivial as some comments were, because if we look at the statistics on the operation of companies, even on the basis of the data contained in the REGON register, we have almost 500,000. limited liability companies. If we assume that about 5% These companies are with foreign capital, so we have over 20,000. the entities concerned and likely to have an impact on their functioning. At the time when we pointed out very positive effects for the economy, we spoke from the perspective of an entrepreneur, a natural or legal person who is considering doing business in Poland and indicates that the formula for this activity would be the most appropriate company. But there is immediately some difficulty with the rules that have been in force so far in terms of providing the premises where the meetings of the shareholders will take place. These are, of course, the facilitations that are being introduced, and it can be said that it is a good thing that this presidential initiative has come because it is a modern club or any other entity that has so far not submitted this type of initiative to change the law. Well, thank you. in favour of these positive votes relating to this initiative. I assure you - and this law itself is the best proof of this - that the President is consistent with the proposals made that meet the needs of entrepreneurs. As regards the draft law submitted, the explanatory memorandum refers to these effects in point 7, the impact on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. The change mentioned here, which was originally a change to the Law on the Freedom of Business, and which was subsequently recycled in the regulations, in the course of the work, is today an element of the law in force in Poland. It is very good that the requirement to make such an assessment as regards the impact on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is contained in Polish law, and I would absolutely not ignore that. This was a request from entrepreneurs and this is also an important issue. With regard to issues related to the confidentiality of voting, given the specificities of such meetings of shareholders, which would be carried out under these means of electronic communication, we know that there is an exemption concerning the secrecy of voting. Moreover, in the current wording of the Commercial Companies Code, this exemption for companies also arises due to the specific characteristics of the public limited liability company. I'm gonna say this by answering the second question I've asked. With regard to issues relating to documentation by the company, we have a voluntary issue of the legal solution and the activities which are on the company's side. There is no doubt here that the company can take appropriate action to secure its interests. As I say, the solution is voluntary and, depending on the will of the shareholders by shaping the terms of the agreement, such solutions may be introduced. Thank you very much for the positive position initially expressed by Minister Łukasz Piebiak orally. Of course, we are open to the issue of dealing with the committee's work on the Specific Affairs Act or improving these provisions. If this improvement is indicated, the representatives of the President's Office of the Republic of Poland will certainly respond positively to such comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u557	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, print No. 3142. The project concerns the possibility of participating in a meeting of shareholders of the company using electronic means of communication. Thus, the bill gives the possibility of such provisions in the contract of the company, which may allow shareholders to participate in a meeting using electronic means, including the transmission of meetings of shareholders, bilateral communication in real time, so that the partners may express themselves in the course of the proceedings, staying in different places, both personally and by proxy at the time of the meeting. Of course, such a procedure must guarantee the identification of partners and ensure the security of electronic communications. In view of the obligations to document and report both the electronic protocol, the resolutions adopted, the evidence of convening the assembly and the recording of the audio-video of the held assembly shall be attached to the minutes book in the form of transcription of the electronic protocol. In general, the project improves organizational procedures in companies with o.o., gives the possibility to use modern electronic communication systems and document the activities of the company's shareholders who are in different places at the time of the meeting. The Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats welcomes this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u559	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed by the President of the Republic of Poland the draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act, contained in print No.3142, to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codifications for consideration. We proceed to the examination of item 63 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution commemorating the patron Jan Olszewski - President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland (prints no. 3233 and 3243). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the parliamentary draft resolution commemorating the patron Jan Olszewski - President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland. The Commission shall, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 21 February 2019, request the adoption of the draft as follows: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the patron of Jan Olszewski - the President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland. On February 7, 2019 Jan Ferdinand Olszewski - lawyer, activist of independence opposition, politician died. He was born on 20 August 1930 in Warsaw in a family of railwaymen, politically connected with the traditions of the independence of the socialist movement. He grew in an atmosphere of respect for independent Poland, which he remained faithful to for the rest of his life. During World War II he was a soldier of the Grey Troops. He fought in the Warsaw Uprising. Since 1956 he has been actively involved in Polish break-ups as a member of the Krzywy Circle Club and editor of the Simply. From the 1960s to the end of the Polish People's Republic he was a defender in political trials. He defended students, opposition activists repressed by the communist authorities, people of Solidarity in years of martial law, among others. in trials against strike organizers and underground publishers. He was one of the auxiliary prosecutors in the Toruń trial, representing the family of the murdered bl. Fr. George Popieluszko. In 1968 and 1970, because of his taking up the defence of students arrested during the March demonstrations in Warsaw, he had a suspended right to pursue the profession of lawyer. In December 1975 he became a co-author and signatory of Letter 59 - an appeal to the PRL Sejm containing protest against the proposed changes in the Constitution of the Polish People's Republic limiting the sovereignty of Poland. In 1976 he was among the founders of the Polish Independence Agreement and participated in the establishment of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. In September 1980, he joined the organization of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity), was an advisor to the National Commission (Solidarity) and one of the authors of its first statute. After the introduction of the martial law he led on behalf of the secretary-general of the Polish Bishops' Conference. Bronisław Dąbrowski talks with representatives of the authorities about the release of prisoners from internment camps. In the first fully democratic elections to the Sejm in 1991, he was appointed Member of the Sejm for the first term of office. On December 6, 1991, the Sejm appointed him President of the Council of Ministers. He was the first Prime Minister of the government appointed by the Sejm in the post-war history of Poland elected in free elections. As President of the Council of Ministers, he made an international effort to bring Poland into NATO and the European Communities, while opposing the country's dependence on Russia. At the request of the Sejm, the government of Jan Olszewski - implementing the illustrious resolution - provided Parliament with a list of nearly 70 people performing important state functions, registered as agents of the civil security apparatus in the times of communist Poland. This attempt at judging was, among other things, the reason for his government's dismissal. The decision of the Sejm during the so-called. the night shift from 4 to 5 June 1992, on the anniversary of the 1989 elections, Jan Olszewski was deprived of the position of President of the Council of Ministers. He said from the Seym stand: 'When I included my functions [...] I knew that we would come to build a new system of democratic power in Poland, a new system, a new, third, our Polish Republic. [...] I would like to leave, namely, when this building leaves, when it ends for me this, I do not hide, [...] a terribly distressing time that when it finally ends, I will be able to normally go out on the streets of this city and look people in the eye. And this to you, Members, Members, I wish you after this vote." He co-authored a civil draft of the 1994 Constitution, which was signed in a short time by 2 million Poles. After the presidential election in 1995, in which he won fourth place, he founded a new political party of the Movement for Reconstruction of Poland. He was an advisor to the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. He was working to liquidate the Military Information Services. On May 3, 2009, he was awarded the Order of the White Eagle. For the rest of his life, Prime Minister Jan Olszewski remained faithful to the ideals of independent, legal and democratic Poland. He was a man of honor, full of dignity, modesty and honesty. He was well registered in the history of the Polish nation as a patriot, statesman and role model. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Him. Hello His memory! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u561	Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will be spoken by Mrs Anna Milczanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u562	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club a motion for a resolution commemorating Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. Sleep. Mr Jan Olszewski was the first Prime Minister of the Government appointed by the Sejm, the Sejm, who was elected in free elections in post-war Poland. He was a defender of values, a patriot, a depositary of values nurtured in the Second Republic of Poland. He co-founded the Committee for the Defence of Workers, the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity), for many, many years he was the patron of this union. His credo of life often was: freedom, independence, sovereignty and independence of our homeland, i.e. Poland. He participated in the Warsaw Uprising as a member of the Grey Troops. He was an oppositionist for many years. On the pages of history he signed up as a steadfast politician called John the Great by his friends. He defended political prisoners, never took money for it. He was the accuser of the auxiliary chaplain of the Blessed Fr. George Popieluszko. At every stage of his life, he was distinguished by the beautiful attitude of a modest, honest man. And of such an attitude, such a man should remember the next generations. He often put his career and his life at stake. He had no doubt, like us, that everything he did was for the good of Poland. We know that in the last years of his life he has asked that democratic Poland be able to join and work with politicians over divisions for the sake of our beloved homeland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u563	Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I wanted to present my position and refer to the resolution that we have just heard here - certainly a great patriot, a patron who defended in many political trials people who were being harassed and bullied, was bravely on their side and was certainly a very good man. I met him personally. I would like us to actually pay tribute to the true patron, the steadfast, independent thinking man and remember him as he was. But the resolutions of the Sejm, the resolutions of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland must not contain lies and must not contain sentences which are not true. At that time, when we were talking about patron Janie Olszewski, who at the hands of Lech Wałęsa, whom he was an advisor, who was not mentioned by this resolution, received a mission to create a government, it was not the first Prime Minister... [[Seym, Seym.]] Excuse me? Remember that we had a small constitution at the time, there was a different configuration, so it was a government, this government, and I had the pleasure to participate in the negotiating team, when this government was formed, also later, when the Prime Minister's exchange process was analyzed, because he had no majority, was based on only a hundred Dozens of votes in the Seym. This government was in constant conflict. It wasn't the government of breakthroughs and it wasn't the prime minister of breakthroughs. [[The voice from the room: What are you lying about?]] It was the prime minister against whom the contemporary Solidarity under Marian Krzaklewski made one of the biggest demonstrations after 1989. You have to remember that, too. I would like the resolutions of the Polish Sejm - and on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to declare it and I say - always contain such content that we can accept it by acclamation, in accordance with, because the patron Jan Olszewski deserves it, he deserves it as a man, as a patron who defended in so many difficult situations and it really required great courage at that time. If you force yourself, without the approval of the committee, also without the approval of amendments that would not contain these false sentences, like the fact that this government was overthrown by the process of illustriousness... After all, it was then that the idea of mirroring was compromised, and it served only to blackmail ZCHN and KPN, which were to guarantee this majority. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ask your president Jarosław Kaczyński why he wanted to replace Jan Olszewski then. I was a participant in these conversations, and if you have any comments, we can sit on the side. The Civic Platform - Coalition Club will not take part in this vote. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] We want the patron Jan Olszewski to keep in mind... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...as he was, a true, great patriot... [[Voice from the hall: Shame on you!]] ... adamant patron, defender of students, activists of Solidarity, a great man. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u565	Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u566	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Jan Olszewski was a great man. I think we all agree on that here. One could disagree with him or agree with him, one could like him, not like him, but he was a unique figure in Polish politics after 1945. He is a righteous man who passed into the consciousness of Poles as a defender of those who needed this defence. There could be a lot of evidence of his integrity. It is undoubtedly a testimony of this attitude during the trial in the case of the communist apparatus of repression of priest Jerzy Popieluszko. It is also proof of this integrity Olszewski's attitude as prime minister of the first Polish really uncommunist government. Therefore, paying tribute to Prime Minister Olszewski, it is worth remembering the words with which he descended from the political scene in 1992. He then said from this place that he would like to walk the streets, in the city he loved and boldly and without shame look people in the face. And yes, Prime Minister Olszewski, it was. You could look the Poles in the face without shame. But Jan Olszewski is also a penetrating critic of the Polish political scene after 1989. As the Member has just said, it is worth the resolution to contain the truth. The Kukiz15 movement also calls for this. For the Kukiz15 movement it is an extremely important figure. Olszewski was a spokesman for the idea of one-mandate electoral districts in which he saw the guarantee of the real subjectivity of the Polish nation. He saw in it a way to solve the fundamental problems of Poland, including the problem of separation of power from the Polish people. Therefore, we make an amendment to complete this glorious resolution commemorating the patron Jan Olszewski, President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland, because, quoting the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland: O state of justice - only one-mandate electoral districts will bring a solution to the basic problems of Poland. Only 8% Poles are pleased with the current direction of change in our country. It is necessary to restore the influence of citizens on state policy. This can only happen when the electoral system is changed from proportional to majority. Selected in one-mandate electoral districts based on a majority system, representatives of society in the Sejm, Senate and local governments will be dependent on their constituents, and not - as they are today - on the executive staff of the parties that establish their seats on electoral lists. The introduction of the principle by one Member from one county will ensure that politicians can be cleared from their programmes and their activities. Only one-mandate electoral districts will ensure real control of the state apparatus by citizens. Only one-mandate electoral districts will bring a solution to the basic problems of Poland. That's why, Mr. Marshal, I'm making an amendment and I'm asking you to accept it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u567	Mr Michał Kaminski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u568	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it is a good habit in civilized countries that everyone, regardless of the political trend, bows their heads respectfully to the majesty of the death of statesmen. And here on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats, we bow this head with the utmost respect for the monumental life of Jan Olszewski. It was life, which was marked primarily by activity in communist times, courage, insight, and also associated with the help of those persecuted at that time. What Jan Olszewski did at the time of the Solidarity and earlier certainly provides him with a place in our national pantheon. Jan Olszewski fought for freedom, fought for democracy. He participated in this free and democratic Poland and as every politician was subject to evaluation, as every politician made mistakes and did wonderful deeds. However, in view of the majesty of death, it is important to remember that the Republic of Poland, our country, above all, should unite us. Today we remember not our polemics, differences of opinion, but a wonderful life, which regardless of how individual political choices can be judged, because every politician in a free country is subject to such assessments - we know one thing - always accompanied noble intentions in the case of Jan Olszewski. Once again, in view of this majesty of death in this divided Poland today, it is worth to stop for a moment and think about that - I would like to believe it deeply. - we Poles still have more in common than we share. It is important that we remember the heroes of our freedom as Jan Olszewski. On behalf of the PSL Club - the Union of European Democrats, I allow myself, Mr Marshal, to make a small amendment specifying the elements of your CV. Jan Olszewski as co-founder of the youth circle PSL Warszawa-Prague-North, which is also part of his life story. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u569	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u570	High Seym! On behalf of the Modern Club, I am speaking in the debate on a draft resolution on the commemoration of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. I'll start with the following, probably obvious, statements. Modern Club are mostly young people who remember the Prime Minister from history rather than from current politics. Personally, I have not had the opportunity to meet Prime Minister Olszewski, although I am probably one of the older members of this club, but I have no doubt that we are talking about a very brave man, who had already demonstrated his courage in early youth as a soldier of the Grey Private, a participant in the Warsaw Uprising, then at a mature age as a courageous, incorruptible and fearless defender in political processes in the times of the Polish People's Republic, for example. met him in the form of a withdrawal of the right to pursue the profession of lawyer, as a man who had the courage to co-sign letter 59 appealing to the then Sejm of the Polish People's Republic to withdraw from the amendments to the Constitution, from the amendment which spoke about the friendship of the death with the Soviet Union. We remember, we have an outstanding attorney in mind. His speech or speech from the process concerning the Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszki still sounds in my ears. We all remember these great words, outstanding words, then broadcast by public television. We've certainly dealt with an honest patriot. And here, in these places, in 2/3 of the text of this resolution, we agree 100% with what has been said. But political themes that have little to do with the truth have been introduced into the text of this resolution. I am referring to the paragraph in which it is said that, at the request of the Sejm, the government - namely, the Minister of Home Affairs, then Mr Antoni Macierewicz - provided Parliament with a list of nearly 70 people performing important functions of state, registered as civil security agents in the times of communist Poland. Unfortunately, we cannot agree to support the text of the resolution, which contains such obvious untruths. At that time, Antoni Macierewicz himself said that we are dealing with information that is only available to the MMA of materials. We were dealing with a list on which he was included. Mr Wiesław Chrzanowski, a legendary figure, also a participant in the Warsaw Uprising, sentenced in Stalin's Poland to death penalty, which was never an agent. Calling this list of agents is not only false, but it is a spit in the face of many outstanding, well-deserved, like Prime Minister Olszewski, activists fighting for independent Poland, for free Poland, for democratic Poland. That is why I am applying for the withdrawal of this paragraph and from the fate of this amendment [[♪ The bell ♪]] we are addicting the vote on the entire draft resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u571	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 to 10 p.m. 22 min 07]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 3246. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws, print no. 3219. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions and the Act on Narodowy Bank Polski, print nr 3238. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the case of the printing report No 3238 also agreed to the application of Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Examination of the Parliamentary draft law on the Fund for the Hundredth Anniversary of Independence Recovery by the Polish Republic, submitted by the Modern Posel Club, - First reading of the parliamentary bill on the repeal of the Act on tax on certain fossils and on the amendment of other laws, print No. 2936, submitted by Kukiz Club Poselski15. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 High Seym! A formal request has been made by a Member of the non-associated Robert Winnicki. There you go. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u572	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am requesting a recess and I ask you very much to ask the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to explain Poland's policy towards Lithuania in the context of today's highest state award for the Lithuanian President, because nothing has changed in the last four years as regards discrimination against Poles in Lithuania. Nothing's changed. Poles as they were discriminated against when it comes to education, education, language, street names, so they are discriminated against so far. Nothing changes, but the government, Mr President, the Sejm tightens up, warms up relations with Lithuania, and in no way puts pressure on our fellow countrymen to improve. [[Voice from the room: He's right.]] What's been going on in recent years is treason. Poles in Lithuania. This is a disgraceful policy that will be remembered by this government. [[Yes, sir.]] I ask for a debate on this issue because the Sejm requires it, this is the right place for the debate, and the Poles in Lithuania also demand it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u573	There are two points here, sir. Firstly, this proposal does not relate to the subject matter of the current meeting of the Sejm, either by way of the past or the present one, and I would like to remind you that the formal proposal must concern the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting. Secondly, I would like to inform you that the next session of the Sejm will most likely be presented with the so-called. small exposé of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, i.e. information about the main directions and assumptions of Poland's foreign policy. Perhaps you could take note of this information and prepare yourself to discuss these issues at the next meeting, during a debate on the information of the Foreign Minister. [[But Poland's relations with the Union...]] I understand that these Polish-Lithuanian and other issues are very important. I personally do not share the views of the Member, but I do think that we will all be happy and interested to hear the information of the Foreign Minister, but because this subject is not on the agenda of this sitting, I cannot accept your proposal as a formal proposal. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on a proposal for a draft law on the Hundredth Anniversary of Independence Recovery Fund. Who among you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 176, against - 226, the 24. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for a bill on the repeal of the Act on the tax on certain fossils. Who among you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 200, against - 227, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Telecommunications Law and some other laws. Third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3156-A. I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u574	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws, prints Nos 3116 and 3156. It should be stressed that this is a particularly important and important project primarily because the need to amend the telecoms law results directly from the European Commission's proceedings concerning the incorrect application of EU directives. The European Commission has accused the Polish side of incorrect implementation in the national legal order of art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Authorisation Directive on the obligation to consult interested parties on intended changes to frequency reservation and raised doubts as to the rules governing selection procedures for frequency reservation by the President of the Office for Electronic Communications. The European Commission's reservations relate in particular to the non-binding nature of auctions and the lack of real financial consequences for an entity that has abandoned its previously quoted frequency reservations. Once again, I would like to stress that these shortcomings in the auction procedure, also indicated by the European Commission, had a direct impact on the course of the only 800 MHz 2015 auction in Poland, in which one of the operators artificially raised the price and finally resigned from the reservation. The aim of the presented project is therefore primarily to improve the rules governing selective procedures for the reservation of frequencies, which will avoid a situation where very high penalties for the incorrect transposition into Polish law of the provisions of the EU Directive will be imposed on Poland. At the same time, the project gives the government the opportunity to set a timetable for the distribution of frequencies, which is a tool allowing enforcement from the Office of Electronic Communications of activities to which Poland is obliged as a Member State of the European Union. In the current state of law, the government does not have any tools to oblige the President of the Office of Electronic Communications to take action to fulfil international obligations. As a result, in many areas of the UKE President's activity there is a delay today, which will adversely affect the development of the telecommunications market and thus also the economic development of our country. Commission for Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology at its meeting on 19 February considered the amendments tabled during the second reading of the project. [[But it's already been done.]] Amendment 2 was accepted in the vote and amendments 1, 3, 4, and 5 were rejected. On behalf of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, I recommend the adoption of Amendment 2, as well as the adoption of the entire draft law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws, together with the amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u575	Thank you, Madam President, for this very reliable report. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Thank you. Let me remind you, it's print number 3156. We will vote first on the amendments that the committee puts forward in its additional report. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the telecoms law. In the first amendment to Article. 111 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 4. Let me remind you that the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u576	These ovations do not mean that you have convinced us. Let me be clear: the telecommunications market supervisor, the Electronic Communications Office, should remain independent. It may seem that the issue of frequency distribution is not important, but the devil is in the details, to be honest. Therefore, it is worth asking the government why it wants to reduce UKE's competences in this area. I'm just going to give you a few quotes that appear in the debate. Firstly, the recipe will have profound implications for the business sphere. Secondly, this could lead to a situation where we're going to have paralysis. Thirdly, the lack of action in the mutual agreement between UKE and the government is extremely problematic. Most importantly, I quote UKE representatives, the Ministry of Digitization tries to limit UKE's independence, and the well-functioning institutions are independent institutions by way of an input into Telecommunications Law. Therefore, we propose that we leave this record in its present form, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. keep the status quo, do not take away these competences from the Electronic Communications Office. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u577	Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 200, against - 223, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For -419, against -2, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 123 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -17, against - 409, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 144c applicants propose, among others: the other wording of the introduction into the calculation in paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 196, against - 234, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 applicants propose not to add point 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 190, against - 233, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, there is a question. Member of Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the law. First committee. We talked, we talked about telecommunications law for a long time. When the director of the Electronic Communications Office spoke, her microphone was turned off, her time was taken. Later, the President of the Office of Electronic Communications comes and points out clear errors in this law. You hand over the competences of the Minister of Digitization, take them away from the Office of Electronic Communications, which is most competent to decide these issues. You didn't accept the first amendment. Therefore, Kukiz15 cannot support the law thus created. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u579	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 3156, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 259, against - 172, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Telecommunications Law and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the government draft law amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3135-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Peter King to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u580	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the Government bill amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and some other laws. The Sejm at its 77th meeting on 20 February 2019, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3165 to the Commission for Energy and Treasury in order to examine the proposal and amendments submitted at second reading. The Commission for Energy and the Treasury, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 21 February 2019, proposes that seven amendments be rejected, two amendments are accepted and, as a result, the entire draft law is adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u581	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3165. We will vote first on the amendments and the proposal to reject the bill. First, we will vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that the democratic system is based on private property, is the market economy. And in the proposed legal act, we remove the tools, the resources that have been used for many years to help all entrepreneurs. At the same time, we are creating a fund - another special fund in the Polish system - for which the amount of about PLN 2 billion will be raised each year, and the fund and funds collected in this fund are intended to be used to multiply the share of the state in the economy. What is the justification for such a model of conduct? What is justified by the system in which these 2 billion zlotys are supposed to be in the hands of two people according to the bill? Isn't this a model of building state capitalism? Or maybe closer to the release of projectors: Isn't this the construction of party capitalism? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u583	Thank you. I don't see a minister here. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 173, against - 249, 8 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 to 4 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. In the 1st amendment to the inserted article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 9a. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 174, against - 232, the 25. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 29 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 4. Amendment 3 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. The question is raised by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u584	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister Gowin's Vice-President Mr Karol Rabenda is the President of the State Company of the International Guarantee Corporation. As you reported, editor Krzysztof Katka in the Gazeta Wyborcza, earns 9,000. zł and he doesn't have to show up at the office. According to the existing provisions of the Act, Mr Rabenda should not be the President of the company managed at all. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 22 it is stated, in the requirements for members of the management bodies, that a member of the management body of the company cannot be a member of the body of a political party. Minister! First of all, I wanted to ask you if this bill solves this problem. Because there are no sanctions for breaking that rule, as is the case with Mr. Rabenda. And secondly, do you not feel uncomfortable, especially Minister Emilewicz, who is also the vice-president of Mr Gowin's party, to which this company is subject, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think this is happening? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u585	Thank you. Minister Szrot is ready to answer that question. Paweł Szrot, Minister at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u586	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I don't really understand the connection between your question and this amendment, because it doesn't formally concern... [[Voice from the room: Answer questions.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: But please respond.]] But I already answered these questions yesterday during the debate... [[Voice from the hall: We weren't there.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Transparently, please respond.]] I will answer again: this situation is legal, these rules apply from many. The Act only repeats what was in the Commercialisation and Privatization Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u587	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 171, against - 236, halted 23. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In Amendment 4, applicants propose not to add Chapter 5a. Amendments 5, 8 and 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 4, 5, 8 and 9, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 170, against - 236, holding 21. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State-owned company (Polish State Railways) applicants propose a different wording of the added point 6a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 255, against - 167, the 9. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 18 draft law. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Two-fifty-fifty-six, against 168, holding down five. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before the whole question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u588	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question: "Why do you restore socialism in Poland?" Because what you're doing is just pure socialism. You want to decide everything. Right now, you want to nationalize more companies. How you manage state-owned companies shows clearly the state of the Polish stock exchange, where several billion have passed away as a loss from the capital of companies managed by your Misiewicz. This is the result of what you're doing. Right now you're giving the Prime Minister a credit card with a limit of PLN 2 billion to go shopping. The question is, should someone control these purchases? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u589	Right. There you go. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3165, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 234, against - 197, abstained - 4. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the rules governing the management of state property and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code. This report is print 3129-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present this additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u590	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate draft law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code, print No 3028. The Commission recommends that the High House reject the 1st and 2nd amendments, adopt the 3rd amendment and adopt the whole draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u591	There you go. It's the print, I remind you, number 3129. The amendments presented in this additional report will be voted first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to add § In Article 2e, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 204 Law Penal Code implementing. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 198, against - 232, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2nd draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 3. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 195, against - 237, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 618fa Act Code of Criminal Procedure. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 417, against - no one, 13 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3129, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For -431, against - no one, holding back 2. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law of the Criminal Code and the Act of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We are returning to the review of item 31 of the agenda: the Commission's report on the Energy and Treasury draft law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and certain other laws, the Law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws, the Environmental Law, the Law on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances, and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3220-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Ireneus to make this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u592	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, I have the honour to present an additional report on the work of the Parliament's draft law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and certain other laws, the Law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws, the Environmental Law, the Law on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances, and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, printing Nos 3217, 3220 and 3220-A. The Energy and Treasury Commission, after considering at its meeting on 21 February 2019 the amendments tabled at second reading, recommends that the High House adopt the six amendments tabled to the draft law and adopt the entire draft law together with the amendments, with amendments No 2 and No 5 voting together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u593	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's 3220. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 to 5 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act amending the Law on excise duty and certain other laws. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. Paragraph 7 1a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 403, against -2, the 25. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. Paragraph 7 Point 2 (3). Amendment 5 on the addition of paragraph 5 is combined with this amendment. Article 6 7. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 5, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 415, against - no one, stopped 15. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. Paragraph 7 Point 4 (1) (a) d. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 415, against - no one, 13 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -413, against - 2, 12 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 6th draft law. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -413, against - no one, stopped 15. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Member of Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u594	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The series titled: The price of electricity continues and we watched cutouts, in which the prime minister and the minister of energy played a major role, who lied that they would lower the price of energy for Poles. It turns out that on 28 December they brought a bill that was supposed to lower this price, and after 2 months they bring an amendment. It is not only that the price did not fall, but increased, as the President of the URE appeals, there is no energy that could be bought. That's our... [[Yours.]] ...a proposal made by the Law and Justice Club. My dears! The Civic Platform will not support such weak legislation, ineffective legislation, will not support the lie of the PiS about reducing the price of electricity. The price is rising. That's enough. We can't buy it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u595	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u596	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What's next with the energy price? Because we're suspending energy prices today. This suspension costs 8 billion PLN. Next year, it's coming back. We still have the decisions adopted, the RES decision taken, and we will have to introduce these charges, but we have the so-called ones. Power bill, power bill. It costs PLN 5.5 billion and this comes in next year, and it adds up. But little of that, we also have a law on commitment to renewable energy. Today NIK says, and the Energy Regulatory Office confirms that it will be at least 8 billion PLN, and that since 2020, and it all adds up, so what, are we going to have drama? Are you gonna make a decision, or is it just gonna be a suspension and we're going this year with this suspension? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it will be a drama for the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u597	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u598	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On December 28th, you brought all the Members to pass the bill so that Prime Minister Morawiecki would not go to court for the third time accused of lying because you said there would be increases, and then the Prime Minister said that there would be no increase. So? And there's a raise. You've been raising energy prices for two years, and now you're graciously saying they won't be there. Yesterday, electricity bills were presented by the city of Łódź. How much? 60% Up. And this is your reduction in energy prices? Another example of socialism in your performance. You privatized everything. The whole energy sector is privatized, [[Joy in the Chamber]] is nationalised: from label to transmission and later distribution. All these are state-owned companies, there is no competition, it is a pure monopoly. If there is a monopoly, there is no chance of lowering prices because there is no competition. This is the principle that should guide you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] when making such foolish decisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u599	Thank you. The concept of socialism is definitely becoming a ambiguous concept. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]] It's a dictionary definition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u600	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Will the Ministry take into account the law, the proposal of the Kukiz Act15 reducing excise duty, and the reduction of EU VAT on electricity in accordance with the Directive, so that in 2020 these increases do not actually exist, because this law, which we are voting on at the moment, is valid only until the end of 2019 and then it is necessary to take action immediately so that there are no increases in electricity. At the moment, the wholesale price market is already suspended, and everyone is waiting for long-term contracts. I have a question, Minister: Will urgent action be taken to achieve sustainable low energy prices after 2019? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u601	In this case the Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u602	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This law, this change, introduces additional legal arrangements that have been agreed in the framework of our meetings in the European Commission. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that the electricity bill will not change... [[Applause]] [[That's right.]] ...in relation to 2017, 2018 in 2019. Energy prices will remain at the same level, and that is the most important. Similarly, the price of energy will not change for both local governments and entrepreneurs, as well as for citizens and households. So that's the most important thing to emphasize. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] This change of order introduces a systematization of some things. Indeed, we tried to write a bill in quite a short time, which will introduce these things, but we all know that it was about a lot of money. The government of Law and Justice of Matthew Morawiecki found money for this... [[Where?]] [[Voice from the room: Whose pockets?]] ...to compensate, to compensate all energy suppliers for what they lose, to provide energy. [[Applause]] Therefore, citizens will not have raised energy prices, while at the same time energy suppliers will lose nothing. It is precisely our success that we can do these things as the only ones in Europe. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: There's no energy...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u603	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3220, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 245, against - 20, with 166 abstentions. The Sejm has passed a law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duties and certain other laws, the Environmental Law, the Law on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances, the Law amending the Law on liquid biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. We are returning to the discussion of item 33 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities. The additional report shall be in print No 3216-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u604	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology, after considering the amendments tabled during the second reading to the print project 3119, asks the High Sejm to reject amendments 1 and 4 and to reject amendments 2, 3 and 5. - accept. The Commission recommends that the whole draft law be adopted. Amendments 2 and 3 should be voted on together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u605	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's print number 3216. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. Point 4 of the Act is proposed by applicants to amend the scope of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u606	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I know how much your marshal likes it when things are done according to the rules, so I'll start with the question, and then I'll give you a reason. Minister, is it true that the 1st amendment is basically the same as the 5th amendment? Because when this draft law appeared, the social side reacted very quickly, mainly associations, small associations for which these overregulations - because that's what I call it - created by you were a difficulty. At least there were concerns that these small associations would have to pay fines of 5 and 10 thousand, and we have often mentioned that some associations have an annual budget of 6 000. We as citizens' movement, as opposition, responded quickly. After all, we all tabled the amendment that you rejected at the committee's meeting, we tabled it twice, and finally this emphasis has worked, because you have created Amendment 5, which sort of settles the matter. I'm guessing Amendment One will be rejected. So the question is, is this really part of the political struggle, that the amendment must be yours and not the opposition? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u607	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 1, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 218, against - 209, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 by adding point 5, applicants propose to extend the scope of the Act. Amendment 3 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 248, against -5, 169 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 7 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u608	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know what to say. So far, I have felt that there is no discussion in this Chamber, in this House, and today I have been pleasantly surprised by you. In fact, not to me, because I'm just on a mission, I'm a citizen's representative, and the state has helped citizens, and very well. Thank you for that, and I'm glad. So maybe I can also convince you of another amendment, also a good one. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I mention here, ladies and gentlemen, that we only add three words. In the committee, together with the Minister, we agreed that these three words, by means of electronic communication, would not harm the bill in any way, but would gently clarify and help it. So if you could and would be kind... We will not hurt, and we will be cordially grateful as opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u609	Please. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For -190, against 228, has stopped 14. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 8 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -426, against -2, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The question is raised by Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u610	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It didn't work in Amendment 4. First of all, I would like to point out that the Kukiz citizens' movement15 appreciates this law and knows that, firstly, it is the fulfilment of EU directives, secondly, it concerns, in particular, people with disabilities who are very important to us. We believe that there is some overregulation here, because to what the European Union requires, you have added 10 more important elements. On the other hand, there's something important I'd like to ask you. A possible nod in the head in response will also suffice. Well, ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed GDPR, the Minister said that the penalties would not immediately be imposed on entrepreneurs and they could count on the so-called. The office's discretion. This applies not so much to schools as to certain associations or entities that will be burdened with it and will not be able to complete it. Will they not be punished at once this time, but they can rely on the discretion of the authorities and possibly the call for change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u611	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u612	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, As regards Mr Masłowski's statement, I referred to it this morning, and I would like to stress once again that the law is not over-regulated, that we have not come up with any additional requirements, that, indeed, the directive contains a narrower catalogue, whereas the implementing decision already has a broader catalogue. And just after a long consultation with the social side, the requirements that were included in this catalogue in the executive decision, we expanded and indicated as mandatory in the bill. I would also like to encourage you to read the whole of the draft law, which refers to the mode of imposing these penalties and the fact that before these penalties are imposed, each entity will have to be called three times at least three years apart. So that there will be time to prepare and adapt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u613	Thank you. The answer was given by the Deputy Minister of Digitalization, Ms Wanda Buk. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3216, together with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 429, against - 3, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities. We would like to refer to item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure the application of Regulation 2016/679. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 3197. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 3197, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. Za - 420, no one was against, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm adopted a law amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). We are returning to the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act. The additional report shall be printed on 3214-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u614	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, I recommend that the project be adopted in its entirety. The report is that the committee recommends rejecting the very wrong idea of extending the deadline, which is, in short, as the government has written down, we need a deadline for the entry into force of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u615	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's 3214. The amendment will be voted first. The amendment was tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act. In this amendment, applicants propose a different date for the entry into force of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u616	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We all know that the transport industry is an industry that needs to be supported in particular. Firstly, because it is an example of such success that we would like our companies and our industries to achieve it in the European Union. Secondly, because this success is very disturbing to our friends, our competitors from the European Union, who are doing everything they can to throw logs at the transport industry. This amendment is based on the needs of the public at the committee meeting. It is about extending the time to adapt to these new responsibilities. This amendment is about giving our transport industry entrepreneurs time to comply with these rules. Now the question to the Law and Justice: Will you help those who want to disturb our transport industry, or will you want to help it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and support this right amendment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u617	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 203, against - 225, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The whole thing. Before voting on the whole project, the question is asked by Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u618	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The road transport industry is our best export product - this has already been mentioned in Mr Suchon's speech - but the black clouds are gathering over this sector. We know that regulations have been prepared to limit the possibility of cabotage services, and this solution will affect Polish carriers. There will be limits to three such cabotage trips, a stopover will be needed and a return to the vehicle registration base will be necessary. What the government of law and justice has done to make this black [[♪ The bell ♪]] The script didn't come true? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u619	Minister Andrzej Adamczyk wants to speak, Minister of Infrastructure. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u620	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! As regards the first doubt expressed by the previous questioner, you know very well that the implementation of European law does not entirely burden entrepreneurs, but only imposes an obligation on the public administration to draw up an appropriate application. So the extension of the vacathio legis completely makes no sense here, and it is, as Mr Rzońc said, absolutely unnecessary, even harmful. That's one thing. Secondly, I answer the question of another Member concerning our actions dedicated to international road transport. [[Member's name.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, with this great care and questions about our actions, you have put forward a proposal under Article. 152 at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. I think all the answers that came out there were exhaustive answers to your questions, objections, and doubts. This is not enough, I dedicate one thing to you to take this into account in your parliamentary group in the European Parliament, because today the European Parliament is hosting the mobility package, while the mobility package results in these harmful rules that may impact our international transport. So I would like to ask that your colleagues and your political colleagues be responsible for this. [[Applause]] not only here in Parliament, but also in the European Parliament to influence the attitude of MEPs in your parliamentary group... [[And what did the government do?]] ...because it's up to them whether these regulations are adopted or not. [[What did the government do?]] I assure you, we've done quite a lot. [[That's what you're gonna say.]] We have taken these actions, which were described and discussed at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. [[I'm sure, Minister, I'm sure.]] Today we have the situation that these rules are probably not going to be adopted by the European Parliament during this term, but give your political colleagues a chance. You don't have to force it on them because you can. [[Applause]] It depends on your goodwill. Show a little goodwill in the name of international transport or the future of international transport, which Polish companies carry out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It means nothing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u621	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no.3214, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For -433, against - no one, holding down 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Road Transport Act. We return to the examination of item 36 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development on the draft law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3227-A. Third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to present an additional report. [[Will the Member answer the questions as to how she did not answer in the Chamber?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u622	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development discussed at today's meeting the amendments tabled at second reading to the Parliamentary draft law on the Research Network Łukasiewicz and present an additional report of the joint committees, print No 3227-A. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering 30 amendments, request the adoption of amendments 2, 17, 18, 26, 27, 29 and 30. I ask the High House, on behalf of both committees, to support the draft law in its entirety and to adopt an amendment act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u623	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you, it's 3227. We will vote first on the amendments tabled by the committees in the additional report. In the first amendment to Article. 1 paragraph The applicant shall propose to delete point 4. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 203, against - 227, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose that in Article. 3 plus paragraph. 7. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 399, against - 25, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose that the wording of point 1 be reworded. Amendments 4, 10 and 11 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 3, 4, 10 and 11, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 196, against - 228, 1 held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For-- 200, against-- 228, holding off on one. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 197, against - 228, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 195, against - 231, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 16 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 198, against - 230, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add point 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 198, against - 232, 1 held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 3. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 12th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 197, against - 233, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add point 7. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For -190, against - 232, holding down 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 23 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 200, against - 227, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 27 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 198, against - 230, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 1. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 198, against - 220, three Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 3. Amendment 29 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 17 and 29, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 265, against - 40, stopped 126. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 18th amendment to the article. 95 applicants propose to add point 1a. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 18th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 242, against - 20, with 164 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 95 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 4. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 62, against - 361, the 6. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 96 applicants propose to add point 7a. Amendment 22 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 20 and 22, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -190, against - 232, holding down 6. The Seym of Amendments 20 and 22 rejected. In the 21st amendment to the article. 96 applicants propose to add a new point after point 8. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 21st amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 57, against - 233, with a hold of 142. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 96 applicants propose to add point 10a. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 23rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Za - 202, against - 228, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to amend point 96 (14). a. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 24th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 198, against - 232, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment to the article. 96, point 15, the applicants propose to add a new wording to point (a). a. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 25th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 62, against - 368, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 26th amendment to the article. 96 applicants propose to amend point 20. Amendment 30 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments 26th and 30th, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 271, against - 161, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 27th amendment to Article. 96 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 24. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 27th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 269, against - 24, holding 137. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 28th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 110. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 28th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 199, against - 228, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We vote on the whole thing. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 3227, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 230, against - 198, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law on the Łukasiewicz Research Network. We would like to return to the discussion of item 37 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on the Agency for Medical Research. The additional report shall be in print No 3221-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u624	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We're about to vote on a bill to set up the Medical Research Agency. The medical research agency will mainly arrange, organize, run and finance the so-called. non-commercial clinical trials. Clinical trials are nothing more than medical products, medical devices. To a large extent, these are studies directly related to the treatment of patients. Such institutions are in all or almost all civilised countries, because they significantly moderate the markets for clinical trials and, above all, inspire clinical trials that are not in the area of pharmaceutical concerns. All minority proposals were withdrawn during the second reading. A total of 17 amendments were tabled. The Commission recommends accepting one of them, marked No 16, and rejecting the others. We will vote on some of these amendments in blocks. The Commission recommends adopting a draft law, together with this one amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u625	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's 3221. The additional report presents the amendments that we will be voting on first. All minority applications were withdrawn by applicants. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. Amendments 3 and 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u626	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret to say that the law that many patients are waiting for is a law which, as Mr Dziuba has said, is not intended to be dedicated to clinical trials that are not sponsored, i.e. non-commercial, that is not the law. It is only in point 6, after all other studies, individual, interdisciplinary, private companies, that the possibility of conducting non-commercial research is recorded. They stand for the same contest with the research I mentioned. There is no allocation of funds to ensure that these studies are carried out and do not stand for the competition. The competition takes into account the various factors that these studies most often do not have, or have, as innovation, as scientific value. This value is the value for the patient. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why this amendment has been made and I am amazed that it is rejected and misunderstood. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u627	Thank you, Member. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1, 3 and 10, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 170, against - 225, halted 23. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 2 applicants propose the new wording of point 4. Amendments 4, 6 and 12 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u628	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The establishment of the Agency for Medical Research, hereinafter referred to as 'the Agency', is justified by the need to provide institutional support for the financing of analyses and scientific research in health care. However, it turns out that the agency is not only supposed to support medical activities, organize their funding and initiate them and organize medical research on the Polish market, but also, surprisingly, it is supposed to carry out these researches. What's that? In Poland, we have clinics, medical institutes, research institutes, and suddenly internally within the agency, with funds for the treatment of patients, of course, we will create new internal sub-clinics, sub-institutions, which will conduct pretend research. We've got enough competent people, [[♪ The bell ♪]] prepared for this medical entity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u629	Thank you, Member. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2, 4, 6 and 12, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 170, against - 222, 27 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 9 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the board of directors, this agency will have its advice. This board consists of various ministers, two from Prime Minister Gowin, one from many ministries, among others. National defense or Homeland Security because they have hospitals. But there is no single ministry that deals with people who are important from the point of view of treatment, i.e. people who are chronically ill, disabled, those who actually use different services - ministries that deal with KRUS, ZUS, PFRON and patients with disabilities. Today, at the committee meeting, we heard that Minister Rafalska was not interested in having her representative on the board of this agency. I have a question for Minister Rafalski. Minister, why didn't you even want to know what was going on in the medical research agency? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your access, and you don't have a representative on the board of this agency? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u631	There you go. The representative of the government in this case is Minister Janusz Cieszyński. The Minister wants to answer? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u632	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As we said at the committee meeting, they reported access to all ministries that were interested in this subject. On the other hand, I assure you that, as part of the excellent cooperation between our resorts, Minister Rafalska will have all the information available to her on an ongoing basis. [[But she didn't turn herself in.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And what did the Minister say?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u633	There you go. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 170, against - 247, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose to delete point 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, PO-KO club. [[Voice from the room: Poko.]] No, Poko is not the right name.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u634	Thank you, Marshal. The law on this agency provides for one sentence and a dot that they will receive support from companies and companies that will carry out innovative research. There's nothing else in this bill about it. On the question of why there is no indication, although the directional, what are these companies and companies to deal with, what this support is to look like, whether anyone was interested in this single-handed record, like this money, public eventually, will be divided, the Minister of the Ministry of Health replied that the Minister of the Coordinator had not submitted any comments, one sentence was enough for him, and the CBA did not make any comments either. Great. That means you're gonna be giving away money without that anti-corruption umbrella. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will read again that the heads of the agency accidentally met at the hotel of a company that received support. Is that how it's gonna be? [[Applause]] Why aren't CBA and the coordinator interested in... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the provisions of this bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u635	Thank you, Member. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 170, against - 248, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 18 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u636	Mr. Marshal! In NBP, you can see it's not enough. In companies, in partnerships - not enough. Government awards aren't enough. I see the Minister of Health envied President Glapiński and decided to create his agency. He'll have his CEOs, his vice presidents, his drivers and his limos. [[And assistants.]] You have no shame. You take 260 million zlotys from the NFZ, from patients for their treatment, from people who are waiting for surgeries, queues, for their agency to put their people there. You have no shame. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Drug addict.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u637	I don't know if you were referring to Amendment 8. She sounds a little different. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 197, against - 231, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. Amendments 11 and 14 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Lidia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u638	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the ministers just said about one of the previous points that we have such a wonderful government, the only government in Europe that found 8 billion PLN. Suddenly it turns out that not only does this success have this wonderful government, because it found again about 300 million PLN. Where? The National Health Fund. Previously, he found it in the taxpayers' pockets. He took the sick to fund the research. Let us be honest that if you would agree to this and accept the amendments that have been tabled by the opposition, this law might be acceptable. The transparency of both funding and the preparation of the entire process of creating this agency is simply equal to zero. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're taking money from your patients to create additional jobs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u639	Thank you very much. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 9, 11 and 14, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 198, against - 227, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 13th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 29. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, PO-KO club. [[We're gonna beat you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u640	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The target is PLN 1 billion in this agency. How? Money, among other things. The National Health Fund, which is at the expense of patients. For what? For shares, shares, companies, companies from Poland and abroad. The Minister of Health has planned that he might come up with something, maybe he'll find something, but we'll buy a couple of co-conspirators in reserve, and we'll have them in reserve. Today we have learned from the rapporteur that they will come up with a philosophical stone. [[Don't yell, Member.]] I don't know, hundreds of billions of dollars, congratulations. But at the expense of Polish oncology patients, seniors and sick children, we will buy companies. This is the company bill. But for who? For power. I have to say, I'm upset because something like this hasn't happened before. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Money for companies instead of patients, and the minister laughs in the face of everyone. Shame! [[Applause]] [[Such a man, such a kram.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u641	Thank you. I would like to remind you that this amendment is: delete the article. 29. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What Art. 29, Mr. Marshal?]] Minister of Health Janusz Cieszyński wants to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u642	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Indeed, we want to carry out innovative activities. [[Voice from the courtroom: With the money from the national fund.]] Indeed, we believe that we will be able to expand abroad in line with the principles of the Responsible Development Strategy, adopted by the Government of Law and Justice. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: For 1 billion a year? What are you saying?]] On the other hand, I understand your surprise that Polish entities buy foreign companies, not foreign Polish companies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u643	Quiet, please. That's what Felczyński's bell is asking for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 182, against - 249, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 42 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, PO-KO. [[We're gonna beat you.]] [[Voices from the room: Room.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u644	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, this was the plan: no contest for president, no minister for president will choose, the president will choose three deputies and we will rule in this agency. After the pressure, perhaps against the Minister's will, because by surprise, there was an amendment about the competition. But when's the contest going to be? At what time will the President appear from the competition with the conditions of education and competence? 12 months. And by the end of 12 months he will be his president, will be his actions, his development plan, his action plan and his financial plan. Great. The question is whether, by chance, the representative appointed by Minister Szumowski to [[♪ The bell ♪]] To write this bill, the doctor whose doctoral thesis promoter was Minister... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] ...he won't be the president for 12 months... [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u645	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u646	...and does not meet the statutory requirements of the competition. [[Time's up.]] Minister, who do you have on... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u647	Thank you, Member. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 180, against - 220, holding 13. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose to amend their references. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, PO-KO club. [[Voice from the room: Poko.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u648	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! If you don't know what's going on, it's about money. [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] It's about the big money, and it's about the son. A son with a budget grant is being created. This year it will be PLN 50 million, but in 2028 almost PLN 1 billion. What's going on? It's up to 0.3%. income of the NFZ. This is PLN 266 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u649	Mr President, please refer to the 16th amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u650	That's nearly PLN 1300 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u651	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u652	Mr. Marshal, with whom? Answer that question. With the president appointed for six years, unrevocable, and three vice presidents.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u653	I'm bringing you up to speed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u654	Don't be obsessed with money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u655	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are not referring to the 16th amendment. 16. This amendment is a change of reference. So I'm calling you back to order. We're voting. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[And he's gone.]] Who of you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -277, against -16, holding 135. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 44. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. [[And the sandwiches are?]] [[Voice from the room: We call to order.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u656	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! Is it true that by setting up a medical research agency... [[Sit down.]] ...are you taking 266 million zlotys from the annual budget of the NFZ dedicated to the treatment of patients? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] PLN 266 million with these NFZ expenditures in 2019. 0,1% NFZ budget is over PLN 100 million. Medical Research Agency is almost PLN 300 million per year, expenditure on geriatrics in 2019 is PLN 100 million. Does the High House know how much the Minister of Health has announced as a resident in the geriatric specialization for this year? Twenty-six residents. Is that the right thing to do, Mr. President? Do you authorize this all the time? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's a big scandal. [[Applause]] [[And people will die.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u657	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Are you laughing, Mr President? Are you laughing that people are gonna die?]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 177, against - 239, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. There are questions in front of the whole thing. Member of Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform Club. [[Poko. P-o-k-o.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u658	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill was supposed to systematize the medical research system so that they could serve patients here and now, according to health needs and epidemiology, so that they could do their best. Turns out nothing's okay. All the institutions that have been doing something so far will be doing it, and this one will be on its own, separate, with the Minister of Health. It won't do any good, but it's gonna do a lot of damage. This agency will help party activists who will find their sons there. He'll help those who reach for the money. But patients will be the most affected after the implementation of this law. [[Applause]] Do you see how many times people on Facebook ask you for help because the baby is sick because someone's getting sick? How many times do they ask you for backup? And the NFZ says we don't have any money and we don't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you will contribute today to the fact that there will be a few hundred million more... [[Sit down.]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u659	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u660	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want you to understand me well this time. [[And he doesn't sit on the stairs. A little culture, please. Don't sit on the stairs, Minister.]] Out of 100 clinical trials in Poland, as regards medicines authorised in terms of medicines that we give to our children and to us, 98%, 99% These are research sponsored by corporations. One or two are non-commercial research. And we want this to change, we want to have research funded by taxpayers' money, because they will be reliable, because they will be in the interest of taxpayers, not in the interests of corporations, as they are today. This bill, on the other hand... If you wanted to do it right, you'd put a few hundred million zlotys in one of three, say, institutions that could do this research. You create a new institution, new jobs, new administration, you spend millions of zlotys unnecessarily. Why are you doing this? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u661	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u662	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I mean, there's a lot of concern about how you're gonna do it, because if you've been doing everything else for three years, you can see how successful you're gonna be. But the problem is real. And this cheap populism, which today is performed by the Platform, is completely inappropriate. Yes, one of the biggest problems of the 21st century, if not the biggest, is the threat of the dictatorship of global corporations, especially medical, biotech companies. And the truth is that the fundamental problem is that today the vast, overwhelming majority of medical research is sponsored by these companies and it is they who really decide by sponsoring these researches, which is being released into the market. It can't be that the one in whose interest it is to market some drugs is also evaluating them because he's sponsoring them, he's giving money. And that's what the money has to be spent on, but, ladies and gentlemen, do it right, just do it right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u663	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u664	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You take 300 million from the NFZ, and the county hospitals are completely indebted, indebted to their ears, they have no money for anything... [[Self-government.]] ...all this debt is growing, medical services and medical treatments are calculated at the price level of 2015. Congratulations, this is a very good idea. Minister! You're talking about foreign expansion. Let me put it this way: Modern is in favour of foreign expansion and will support foreign expansion, and recommends that the entire PiS government move to the European Parliament as soon as possible. [[Applause]] [[That's gonna ruin Europe.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u665	That's interesting. [[Applause]] Mr Janusz Cieszyński, Deputy Minister of Health, will speak at the moment. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Technically, without propaganda.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u666	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would just like to address this key part of the questions about funding. Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Winnicki and Mr Skutecki have just said, we want to finance non-commercial, objective clinical trials. And just for that, that's what the National Health Fund's write-off is going to be for. And the country... [[And why is a new institution needed?]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb, Long.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] All the money that's going to be used to finance non-commercial research is money that goes back to patients. Ladies and gentlemen, we have talked about this many times during the committee's meeting, this is indicated in the legislation, and this is indicated in the explanatory memorandum. And I hope that when the agency starts its business, you will have the opportunity to see that it was a really good investment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u667	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3221, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 235, against - 198, holding down 2. The Sejm passed a law on the Medical Research Agency. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Weak applause.]] We return to the examination of item 38 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland on legal protection and legal assistance in civil, family and criminal matters, signed in Helsinki on 27 May 1980. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 3110. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz club15. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[No, it's not at that point.]] [[Voice from the hall: Not at this point, Grzesiek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u668	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I'm sorry, Minister, I didn't mean to be impertinent, but I couldn't. This time the government has made up for this bad bill, this time it's a good day for the government, it's a good bill, because it's short and repeals unnecessary, completely unused law, which generally interferes with the management of the state. So that big chapeau bass here for this. And now I would like to ask the Prime Minister to commit himself to making at least one such bill every week so that we can have a wise right. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u669	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 3110, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For -427, against -2, 1 held back. The Sejm passed a law on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland on legal protection and legal assistance in civil, family and criminal matters, signed in Helsinki on 27 May 1980. We are returning to the examination of item 39 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the separation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea, signed in Brussels on 19 November 2018. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3135. The question is asked by Mr Norbert Obricki, PO-KO club. [[We're gonna beat you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u670	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The entry into force of this law will reduce the area of the Polish exclusive economic zone in the Baltic. [[Scandal!]] In the disputed part for 40 years, Denmark also claims this part of the law. And here Minister Chaputowicz announced his next success in negotiating and diplomatic relations, divided this zone and signed a deal with the Danes. 50-50? Unfortunately, High Izbo, 20 to 80 to the detriment of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Minister, I ask the question: In the name of what interests of Poland have we made such a negative division? We will not be able to vote for the next diplomatic defeat of Minister Chaputowicz. We cannot vote in favour of sanctioning such an unfavourable division of the Polish economic zone in the Baltic. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Poland on its knees.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u671	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Mr Tarczyński, you wanted to ask a question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u672	To answer your question with this note - I do not need a note - I would like to tell you that in your time there was zero, not 20. [[Sit down!]] [[4:0.]] It was zero, because for eight years you couldn't handle it, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And this difference is due to the coastline. You know that. [[Voice from the room: 100%.]] And now I have a question for you: whose business is it in order for Baltic Pipe to be blocked? [[Voice from the room: Poland.]] Germany and Russia. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Patriots.]] [[The Polish Baltic is returned, patriots.]] Did you work for a German institute...? Do you have the courage to answer? So I repeat, zero and forget about the euro. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Zero is a sign.]] [[Voice from the room: Intelligence Agent...]] [[Great negotiators. Great.]] [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u673	This is Question Time, but the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk asks for a vote. I'm just asking you to stay calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u674	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought this was a purely legal issue, not a political one. It is a purely legal matter. We must, firstly, refer to the law of the international law of the sea and, secondly, to the case law of the international courts in such matters. Firstly, the standard in both cases is that in this situation the dividing line of the disputed zone is so-called. the median line. Median line in this case This is the southern border of the dispute zone. Therefore, if a trial were to take place before an international court or if it were to be settled as in other cases, we would get zero of the conflicting zone, zero. [[We'll never know.]] It's a circle. Zero. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Secondly, if we were to negotiate as other countries have negotiated with Denmark, i.e. Sweden or Germany, we would get a few percent of this disputed zone. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Stop...]] We get 20%. [[Applause]] No country that had this kind of dispute got that much of the disputed area. [[Voice from the room: Just like 27:1 this is a success.]] [[27:1 this is a success.]] Third, finally... 27:1, exactly so - except that 27 is on our side. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's right. The next issue is the negotiations between the countries... [[Sit down!]] ...on the division of the disputed zone, not on the Baltic Pipe project, and from this point of view these negotiations have been conducted. [[You're gonna tell that to Tarsinski.]] Another and last remark: If you believe that this dispute had to be resolved, you had 8 years to do so, you did nothing in this direction. [[Applause]] In a few months, we did what you failed to do in eight years. Thank you very much. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u675	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 3135, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 280, against - 142, hold down 8. The Sejm adopted the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the separation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea, signed in Brussels on 19 November 2018. We refer to point 47 of the Agenda: Report from the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of members of the European Parliament in direct universal elections, annexed to Council Decision 96/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976. Third reading. Let me remind you, this is print number 3177. The committees are asking for the bill to be passed. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 3177, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For -422, against -1, 3 stopped. The Sejm adopted the Law on the ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of the members of the European Parliament in direct universal elections, annexed to Council Decision 96/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976. We refer to point 54 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project, signed in Katowice on 11 December 2018. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 3194. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill in print 3194 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For -428, against -1, holding off on 2. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project, signed in Katowice on 11 December 2018. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 40 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3241. The question is asked by Marek Hok, PO-KO club. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: PO-KO.]] [[Voice from the room: Poko.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u676	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is another law, which once again takes funds belonging to Polish patients to create another entity, which will be the control corps for the President of the National Health Fund. So far, in every voivodship there has been control, the purpose of which was to check health funds, all signed contracts. Today, this law introduces a corps with funding provided by the President of the National Health Fund, thus depriving the funds provided for Polish patients. Today it is another law, which causes the funds for the treatment of Polish patients to be reduced. [[Applause]] [[Aren't you ashamed to say that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u677	Here you go, Mr Janusz Cieszyński, Deputy Minister of Health, will respond to Mr Cieszyński's statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u678	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I reassure the Member, in accordance with the impact assessment, in line with the replies we gave to the committee today, the cost of the remuneration associated with the establishment of the audit corps will not increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u679	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.3241, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 266, against - 147, holding 18. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 41 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. Third reading. The additional report shall be in print No 3244-A. I ask Mrs Anna April to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u680	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report from the Health Committee on the work on the government draft law amending the Health Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. The report is contained in print No 3244-A and the law itself is contained in print No 3201. The Sejm at its 77th meeting on 21 February 2019, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3244 to the Health Committee in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The amendments were tabled by the Kukiz Members' Club15, two amendments. The Health Committee asks the Sejm to reject the amendments, and as regards the whole print project 3201, please accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u681	Thank you. The amendments tabled in the additional report - I would like to remind you that this is printing 3244 - will be voted first. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 6a. This amendment is linked to the 2nd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 177, against - 243, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The whole bill. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.3244, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For -411, against -5, halted 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. We would like to return to the discussion of item 42 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and Treasury and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. The additional report shall be in print No 3215-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u682	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. Five amendments were tabled during the second reading. The joint committees have worked on these amendments and recommend that the High House reject the amendments, but also recommend that the bill be adopted. This is a law that increases the energy security of Poland in the field of oil supply. The Act will help to build an additional thread of the pipeline connecting Gdansk and Płock in an efficient manner. [[Applause]] It will also help to expand the logistics system of product pipelines in the country. This is a big step in increasing the security of oil supplies to Poland, and thus another chance to reduce the amount of oil coming to Poland from the eastern direction, Russia. The Commission recommends that you adopt this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u683	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's 3215. We are voting first on the amendments presented in this additional report. In the first amendment to Article. 5 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 177, against - 226, stopped 24. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 21 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 171, against - 228, the 25. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 24 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u684	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In this amendment we will decide whether we are in favour of choosing solutions which, if the property was used for public purposes in a permanent or temporary manner, were in force during the interwar period, or whether we will adopt solutions that were in force in the People's Poland. In the People's Poland there were solutions under which the amount of compensation received by the owner whose property was used for these purposes was determined at administrative level. During the pre-war period it was so that if the administration receiving the property determined compensation and the owner of the property was dissatisfied with this compensation, he had the right to ask the general court for the so-called. fair compensation. Our amendment is an attempt to introduce Polish regulation into the system, so that the owner of the property, which was used for public purposes, has the right to such fair compensation. Government submission [[♪ The bell ♪]] opting for solutions that existed in our system in the past...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u685	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u686	...maybe real socialism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u687	Thank you very much. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 178, against - 225, the 22. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 50 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 170, against - 228, 25 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 3215, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For -418, against -3, the 9. The Sejm passed a law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. We return to the examination of point 43 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Construction Law Act. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3209. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3209, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 392, against -7, stopped 24. The Sejm passed a law amending the Construction Law Act. We return to the review of item 44 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on subscription fees. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3223. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. The question is asked by Mr Richard Petru, near Now! [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u688	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another grant for public television shows pathology. Television that deals with propaganda must be loss-making and loss-making. I'll be honest with you, I don't believe it's possible to depolize TVP in the future. The only solution is to terminate the subscription and privatise public television. A public mission may be carried out in the framework of tenders in which any media meeting the rules of access to the general public may take place. It could be ground television. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few years, a million people have stopped watching TV at all. This trend will follow. Only then will the public mission be independent of the influence of politicians if there is no subscription, and television will be private. And today, every responsible Member for whom the truth and responsibility for the public pennies are important should vote against this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u689	Piotr Apel, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u690	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! For a few years now, you haven't dealt with the right, full license law. We still have this weird charging system and these permanent subsidies directly dependent on the majority of the Sejm. I have a question for the Minister: How can I call someone who says that he has the laws ready, that in a moment, in a year's time, these laws will be there in six months, and doesn't do anything about it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u691	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL-UED, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Wrong point.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u692	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I think you can calm this situation down through the project of the Polish People's Party, which is... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] PiS supported this project, but the question is whether you support the termination of the subscription. If you are in favour, you need to proceed with the procedure sooner, because people are waiting for it. People don't want to pay. People don't want to pay their subscription. Give people freedom because you say all the time that you're for democracy, for freedom, just release people from their obligation to pay, and whoever wants to pay will pay anyway. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u693	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, PO-KO, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u694	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are showing respect for the citizen, because in a moment you will spend 1300 million from the taxpayer's pocket on the most blunt and manipulative propaganda Poland has seen in the last 30 years. [[Applause]] I'm the man behind the appointment of Mr. Kurski, a famous manipulator who manipulated public opinion for many years... That's why you put him on the post of President of Polish Television. Have you ever seen such propaganda, such manipulation and attacks on political opponents as they've been on TV for three years? [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] No, because no one with a healthy mind seemed to think it could happen. That is why any respectable Member in this House will vote against this proposal. There's no other way. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u695	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u696	Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Frankfurt.]] Mr. Marshal! High Seym! To the Members of the applicants the question. Do you have any idea what 1260 million is? These are increases, this is an increase in salaries for teachers by 50% compared to those you propose: hungry 100-gold increases for Polish teachers. This is an increase in the medical budget to which you are proposing 4 billion in 2019. Almost 50%. it would be possible to increase the expenditure on treatment, including fatal diseases, oncology, instead of giving to public television, about which Jacek Kurski said that under his rule he would be as reliable and objective as the BBC. Only the reliability and objectivity of buildings on the street. Woronicza and by en. The insurgents of Warsaw came out with shame when the nominate of Law and Justice appeared there. You think the dark people are gonna buy it? I will repeat for Michael Kaminski in the afternoon debate: He will not buy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If he did, he'd be paying a subscription.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u697	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u698	And since he doesn't buy, he doesn't pay. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u699	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesza, near Freedom and Effective, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u700	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! President Kurski! According to the report by Reporters without Borders, Poland dropped by 40 seats in 3 years - in place of 56. - in the press freedom ranking. [[Applause]] Answer me: For this 1,200 million, how much longer are we going to fall? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[TV's not the press.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u701	Please. Barbara Bubula, the Law and Justice have the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u702	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question for the Members of the applicants. Is it true that Donald Tusk called a few years ago... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...over 10 years ago, actually, to not pay your subscription? [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: True.]] Is it true that the Civic Platform has led to the fact that public television is financially inefficient on a permanent basis because it is not a subscription? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Kurski.]] Is it true that the money we are spending at the moment on refunding the lack of subscription influences is spent in 99% on a public mission that has nothing to do with the part that you are criticizing? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Propaganda!]] Is it true that this money is spent on things that Poles want to watch on public television? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u703	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Za - 203, against - 229, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the whole draft law, but earlier questions. Member Piotr Apel, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u704	Thank you, Marshal. For $400 million, you bought $86,000. museum objects, 250,000. library objects, including manuscripts, you bought almost 600 paintings, including a dam with a weasel, real estate and all this 400 million. This is 1/3 of what you give on TVP: 1/3. Do you really think that the added value, this mission, the culture that Zenek Martiniquek represents, or the other stars, the New Year's Eve with Two, is worth three times as much as this collection? Really? [[People love it.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u705	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u706	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 1,300 million for what? First of all, for party propaganda, which even on TVN causes blush and wipes the eyes out of wonder that you can so much. [[Applause]] Secondly, on the so-called. a public mission which in the sphere of culture manifests itself with the promotion of the most primitive pop culture, consumerist, hedonistic. Watch TV shows that fly there in the best time of air, about which voters, where homosexuals are promoted, are promoted nihilism and exactly the same vice as in the days of the Civic Platform. Think about it. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] You know what? Think about Krakow Przedmieście 2010, about this explosion of nihilism, look in your face and tell us what you did. Did you stop rainbow propaganda in schools? Did you stop what was happening on TVP? No, because it doesn't matter to you. You're setting up a new paddle shop, a new Ladybug, and that's all you're gonna do. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u707	Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, PO-KO, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u708	Mr. Marshal! Only this year in Poland will 140 thousand people get cancer. People. Do you know how much money you give for all the chemotherapy for all Poles who have cancer this one year? PLN 1300 million. [[How much did you give?]] [[Voice from the room: Under 1 billion.]] You also give 1300 million PLN to this public television propaganda, this television, which a windy journalist chased after Paul Adamowicz and stuck a microphone in his mouth, on this television where you mock Owsiak, on this TV where you mock Wałęsa. You know what? Why are you giving her that 1 billion?? Because you're scared. You have valued your fear for this 1 billion PLN. But you can't stop it, it's coming, people are laughing at you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo. Bravo, Bartek.]] And you know what? It's gonna be time soon. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When Rachon's editor finally gets to watch not on public television, but on the street in his traditional... [[Applause]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u709	Thank you very much. Piotr Liroy-March, near Freedom and Effective, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u710	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many times in meetings of various committees we talked about the fact that if you want to treat citizens with respect, first of all: if a subscription is not advertising, and if advertising is not a subscription. People aren't stupid, people see what you're doing, and they draw conclusions. It's not gonna work. On the other hand, in relation to my colleague Jakub Kulesza, I would like to say that there are only Belarus and Russia below us in this ranking when it comes to freedom of the media. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u711	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u712	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! $1,300 million is the huge money you spend on this propaganda. So that you can imagine, Mr. President: this is 25,000. $50,000 in envelopes. zł. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u713	Anybody else want to speak? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Good. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of your Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3223, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 225, against - 202, holding down 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on subscription fees. We are returning to the examination of item 45 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3242. The Commission is also presenting a minority proposal on which we will vote first. This is the only conclusion. In this minority proposal to Article. 5 applicants propose that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 180, against - 244, stopped 4. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act No.3242, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 284, against - 144, holding off on 2. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 46 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. Third reading. The committees are asking for the bill to be passed. This is print number 3245. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the draft Print Act 3245, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For -426, against -3, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. We return to the examination of item 48 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate draft law amending the Environmental Law. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3230-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u714	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report on the Senate bill amending the Environmental Law, print no. 3230-A. High Izbo! Two amendments were tabled to this draft law at second reading. 1. The amendment is basically the same as the first minority proposal, the second amendment is the same as the second minority proposal. The Commission has examined these amendments and recommended that the High House reject both amendments 1 and 2. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u715	Thank you. We will vote first on minority proposals and also on the amendments tabled in this report. In the 1st minority proposal and the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. Article 4 129 Environmental Law Act. We will vote on them together. The Commission asks, I would remind you, to reject this amendment. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first minority proposal and the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 194, against - 231, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 2nd minority proposal and the 2nd amendment, the applicants propose to add to the draft Article. 1a. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd minority proposal and 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 43, against - 234, holding 151. The Sejm rejected the proposals. The whole bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 3212, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 371, against - 25, the 27. The Sejm passed a law amending the Environmental Law Act. We would like to refer to item 49 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on honoring the Secret Military Organisation of the Pomeranian Gryf Pomeranian. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3188. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no 3188, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For -423, against -1, no one stopped. The Sejm has adopted a resolution on honoring the Secret Military Organisation of the Pomeranian Gryf. [[Applause]] We would like to return to the discussion of item 50 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's office. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3190. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 3190, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 429, against - no one, stopped 2. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's office. We would like to refer to item 51 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Stefan Sunday and Fr. Stanisława Suchowolec - Polish patriots murdered by unknown perpetrators. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3224. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 3224, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 430, against - no one, the 1st Member abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 30th anniversary of the death of priests Stefan Niedzielak and Stanisław Suchowolc. We would like to return to the discussion of item 52 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the debut and 50th anniversary of the death of Kazimierz Wierzyński. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3225. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no.3225, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. They were all in favour. The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 100th anniversary of the debut and the 50th anniversary of the death of Kazimierz Wierzyński. We would like to return to the discussion of item 53 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 145th anniversary of Wincent Witos' birth. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3191. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no.3191, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. They were all in favour. The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 145th anniversary of Wincent Witos' birth. We would like to return to the discussion of item 63 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the parliamentary draft resolution commemorating the patron Jan Olszewski - President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland. Amendments were tabled in the discussion. I therefore propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this proposal after the text of the amendments has been delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We'll proceed with the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3243. [[But there were supposed to be amendments. Where are the corrections?]] A summary of the amendments tabled was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen for print number 3243. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose a second sentence in the third subparagraph after the first sentence. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 309 Members voted. For - 78, against - 224, the 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete the words in the sixth paragraph. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 301 Members voted. For - 55, against - 231, the 15. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new paragraph. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 292 Members voted. For - 27, against - 246, halted 19. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We vote on the whole draft resolution. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no.3243, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 290 Members voted. For - 266, against - 1 stopped 23. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the patron Jan Olszewski - the President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland. We proceed with the examination of item 56 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on Mutual Assistance Fund in the Stabilisation of Agricultural Income (Print No 2802) - follow-up. At the 76th meeting, the Sejm heard the representative of the applicants from Mr Marek Sawicki and held a discussion. Following a proposal from the Sejm Bureau to refer the draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, an objection was raised with a request to refer the draft law only to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will only refer the draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of sending the draft law in print No 2802 to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For -417, against -12, no one stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 57 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development (prints No. 3085, 3122 and 3122-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Antoni Duda to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u716	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development no. 3085. At the second reading of the law at the 76th meeting of the Sejm on 17 January this year. 7 amendments tabled. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development met on 19 February and discussed these amendments. The committee's report is in print No 3122-A. After the discussion, the committee recommends rejecting all 7 amendments while proposing that amendments 2 to 7 be put to the vote together and then passed Print Act 3085. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u717	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's the 3122 print. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 to 6 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. In the first amendment to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 197, against - 227, halted 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In amendments 2 to 6, applicants propose to delete certain amendments to the amended law. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2 draft amending act. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd to 7th amendments, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 194, against - 232, there were 4. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The whole bill. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, print 3122, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 267, against - 142, holding off on 20. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. We proceed with the examination of item 58 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law on the establishment of 14 April - the Holy of the State - the Festival of Polish Baptism (prints No. 1456, 2765 and 2765-A) - the third reading. I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present this report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u718	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission strongly welcomed this parliamentary initiative. This was due to the fact that the feast which we want to establish resembles the beginnings of the Polish state, the moment when Prince Polan Mieszko I was baptized. It's so weird that we had to wait so long for this kind of initiative to come along. It is worth saying that many European countries are referring to this kind of event in their most important national holidays. Hence, the overwhelming majority of Members had no doubt that this public holiday should be established, all the more so since some people today are trying to vanquish the Christian roots of Europe. While some Members have had doubts as to whether this date is the most appropriate one, the vast majority of historians accept that it was April 14, 966 that on the Great Saturday, Mieszko was baptized. That is why we rejected the amendments that tried to change this date, widely accepted by historians. The Commission recommends that the entire draft law be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u719	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's printing 2765. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. In amendments 1 and 2 the applicants propose to establish the Holy Baptism of Poland on 15 April. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 159, against - 232, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The whole bill. There are questions. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u720	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The state should unite its citizens. A national holiday should also be combined. On 14 April 1934, the ONR Party was established. A party that had a fascism political program. A party that had been relegated in less than three months. Poles and Poles will have doubts as to whether we are setting a public holiday for April 14th or whether we are setting a feast for those, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who feel like the heirs of ONR. We can work together on a compromise version of this law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Those proposals were... [[Voice from the hall: 15th.]] ...and that's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u721	Thank you, sir. I understand that this is a question for the rapporteur, right? We're not gonna get an answer to that question. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u722	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, for every historical date you can quote a different historical date, and the fact that someone is associated with something is really not enough to torpedoing it, first of all. [[You've got one thing in common.]] Secondly, I encourage the Civic Platform to reach out to the Krakow Declaration a dozen years ago. [[The voice from the room: ONR wasn't there.]] To this declaration, in which you committed to defend rights, traditions, families, customs, religion before entering the Union. Reach out to these roots, what you declared then, and also in this vote and in political practice remember how you started your career and maybe this will tell you something. Because the issue of baptism and Christianity is not a question of personal beliefs. It is not a matter of one or another worldview, it is a matter of the national community. There is no Poland and there is no Polishness without Christianity. Whoever tries to hit it hits the essence of Polishness. That's the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u723	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor. You, as far as the question goes... As rapporteur, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u724	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This idea to move the date, because someone is associated with a given event or many years later something happened... [[A thousand years.]] ...it's kind of an idea that we're trying to discuss today whether the Battle of Grunwald was July 15th or maybe 3 days or 5 days later, because July 15th, for example. In 1980 something completely different happened. But if you're already choosing the date of April 15, maybe it's because the SLD was created on that very day? Maybe that's where you're trying to find roots. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Or was it because in 1191, King Henry VIII Hohenstauf of Germany was crowned German emperor in Rome? Maybe you'd like to celebrate. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Magician, corrigendum.]] When I listen to your requests, I have the impression that you probably want to celebrate another event mentioned by Wikipedia, which took place a few years ago: on April 15 the TVP Entertainment started. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Man, be serious.]] Maybe a little joke, but ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about a very important event. An event that is one of the most important events in the history of our nation and our country. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Without this event, we could not actually participate in this tradition, not only Christian, but also European, also Roman and Greek. [[The voice from the hall: Don't make a circus out of it.]] This event decided that we were in the European cultural circle. Without this decision, he lives and perhaps as a state we would not exist at all. And today, trying to question the date of this event and searching for excuses many hundreds of years later is just kind of paranoid. Let us celebrate, let us rejoice, that we have such a long tradition, that it is a celebration together, which will transform into a joyful worship of the formation of our nation, and let us end this cabaret. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u725	As corrected by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. [[Voice from the room: What corrigendum?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u726	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the spirit in which my previous speaker had just finished: the point is to have a national holiday in common. Since the amendment related to the date of 15 April was rejected, I did not refer to this proposal. One thing is certain, the baptism of Poland took place on the day before Easter 996 and thus on the Passover Saturday. That's for sure. If this is certain, we can work out a compromise version so that this holiday is moving and precedes Easter each time. It's only up to the good will of the Law and Justice. [[You shot yourself in the knee.]] Then we can get this effect, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for which you also sought: to make it a holiday that brings together Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u727	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2765, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 279, against - 125, with a hold of 14. The Sejm passed a law on the establishment of the Baptism Day of Poland. We proceed with the examination of item 59 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions and the Act on the National Bank of Poland (prints Nos 3192 and 3238). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u728	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Public Finance Commission has examined the Senate's resolution on the parliamentary draft law from print no. 3192. The Finance Commission unanimously accepted the Senate amendment, which brought back the relevant Article No. 4 of this draft law. Thus, the Senate removed the editorial error that appeared in the text of the Act. I recommend to the High House that the Senate amendment be adopted, i.e. the vote against the rejection of the Senate amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u729	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the amendments of the Senate by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the only amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes a change of vocation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Richard Petru, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u730	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the Act on the National Bank of Poland, which you could vote on in exactly one day, and this case has been going on for two months. Clearly, it is in your interest to extend the legislative process so that the NBP's earnings are not public. Let me remind you, President Adam Glapiński went to President Andrzej Duda for a consultation. Perhaps there will be a veto, and perhaps this law will be addressed to the Constitutional Court so that it cannot be applied. If you don't know what's going on, it's about big money. You say transparency is important to you. If you wanted to pass this bill, you'd have passed it a long time ago. You also said you weren't going to politics for money. That's right, 'cause you're going for a lot of money. And politicising a central bank always pays the economy. Therefore, hurry up and adopt this law without stalling, and as soon as possible reveal your earnings to the NBP. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u731	Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, PO-KO, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u732	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 12 minutes to the hour. 1 a.m., and we're voting a disgraceful bill for PiS in the NBP. First question: Why did it take you so long? Why haven't you adopted a very simple payroll disclosure bill in the NBP for more than two months? The second question concerns the case, because by accident, only because a director from the National Bank of Poland became a councillor and had to make a declaration of property, we learned that he was earning more than 60,000. [[That's not true.]] More than the Prime Minister in Poland. More than the president. Even more than the Prime Minister and the President together. [[Voice from the hall: This was not in the statement.]] I ask you, how many other secretaries, assistants, assistants, directors, directors who make tens of thousands a month? How many more politicians do you have in Treasury companies who can [[♪ The bell ♪]] Within a dozen months, make millions? How many other humble people do you have who... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u733	Thank you, sir. Your question is not about the bill. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u734	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Law and Justice! How long will you continue this legislative process so that the citizens of our country do not know what the wages of the nearest neighborhood of the President of Glapiński in the National Bank of Poland look like? If the president had a little decency, that bill wouldn't have been necessary at all. But you have confused it so that not only are there negotiations between the President and the President today, whether this bill will be sent back to the Constitutional Court, but we are also threatened with a dispute with the European Commission, because we still have a negative opinion of the European Central Bank on this law. Looking at the provisions of this law, I have the impression that you intentionally added to transparency the salary regulations in the NBP, so that we do not get to know the earnings in the NBP until the end of this term. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u735	Does Mr Andrzej Noblechta want to ask the question whether he would like to speak as rapporteur? [[How much do they make?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u736	As rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u737	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u738	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm adopted this law by a very large majority. Even the Members of the opposition were not opposed. On the other hand, an editorial error swooped into the text that was addressed to the Senate, and this editorial error concerning the number of one of the articles was corrected today. So there is absolutely no action to stop this bill from coming into force. This bill was passed by the High House three weeks ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Through the PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u739	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is against the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For -10 against -389, 16. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We proceed with the examination of item 60 of the agenda: Report of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Foreigners and certain other laws (prints Nos 3210 and 3219). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u740	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate amendments clarify the amendment to the Foreigners Act, are legislative and orderly in nature, even if the reference is amended as in Amendment 4. The Commission recommends that the High House vote in favour of the Senate amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u741	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 4. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 containing amendments to the Foreigners Act. In the first amendment to Article. 3 point 7g of the Senate proposes legislative amendments. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - no one, against - 414, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 13 The Senate proposes amendments to the added points 18a-18d. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - no one, against - 419, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 3, 5, 6, and 9. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 3, 5, 6 and 9, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. No-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, no-one, The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - no one, 417 - against, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3rd Amending Act. Amendment 8 is linked to this amendment. The Senate. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 7 and 8, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 1, 414 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the examination of item 61 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 3246). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to speak? I can't see, I can't hear. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print 3246, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. For - 380, against - 7, 14 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 min. 58 hours 1 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 21 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No, no one's checking in. I consider the list of Members to be closed. As your first vote, you have Alicia Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u742	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to raise a very important and worrying problem, and it concerns a group of children between 6 months of age and 13. the month of life and measles, which in Poland at the moment harvests more and more, are spreading more and more. We don't have an anemia, we don't have an epidemic, so to date, 300 people in our country have been ill, and last year it was two hundred and dozens, so it is expected to grow quite violently. measles is a highly contagious and highly contagious disease, is transmitted by a droplet route, through dirty hands and is very easy to move when you contact them. Why do I want to talk about this group of kids? Well, in our schedule of vaccinations, mandatory measles vaccination, which is a combination, because it is a triple vaccination against mumps, rubella and measles, is at 13 months of age. Up to 6 months of age, the child has antibodies from his mother to 2 years of age, and the immune system develops. This group of children is the most sensitive group to any infection. After contact with the cut-off of such a child's life and health at 100% - unfortunately also life - will be at risk. There are methods of prevention. I've had a lot of conversations because a lot of parents come to me with this problem, what to do with kids like that. Do you lock them in your homes and not let them out at all? We must remember that this measles came to Poland from outside our borders and can be with any person who comes to us from Ukraine, where at the moment there is a very high amount of measles disease. Of course, it is possible for such children when they become infected with measles, to administer immunoglobulins, which used to be impossible, which is why many children left the world with measles complications. However, there is a prodromal period, and in fact the greatest sense of administration of these immunoglobulins would be immediately after exposure to this virus. And here is one question: Is the Polish government doing whatever it is doing or is in a waiting position, waiting and risking how many children from this group... Okay. 120,000. This year we're going to have children of this age, vulnerable children, children not vaccinated not because someone didn't want to, just because this vaccination is so late on the calendar. This vaccine could be moved to 9 months of age because it is registered in Poland, but in other countries it has been vaccinated into measles for 6 months. I think it would be wise to consider whether or not to vaccinate children from 6 months of age, this particular group and in this situation that we have at the moment. And another question for health care providers in Poland: Are hospitals, including county hospitals, close to these tiny children - as you know, in such children the disease progresses very quickly - are they protected in these immunoglobulins? It is not a cheap product, it is a product of biological origin and probably most smaller units simply do not have these immunoglobulins. What I'm trying to say is that measles is very often a complication in pneumonia, meningitis, encephalitis. This situation, even if this child's life is saved, often leaves traces for his entire life in the form of worse mental development, if it is an inflammation of the brain, in the form of shocks, improprieties. This is a really big threat and, in my opinion, a big problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u743	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Duda, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u744	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 18 January this year. He died in Opole, Fr. Dr. Alojzy Sitek. Sleep. Fr. Alojzy Sitek was born on 29 January 1929 in Cisówka - now it is a district of Jastrzębia-Zdrój - as a fifth child with eight siblings. After the outbreak of World War II, the father was mobilized, so the whole family went to the East: first to Trembola in the district of Ternopil and then to Lviv. After the Red Army occupied the area, they returned to Silesia and moved to Pszów. In this town, Alojzy Sitek graduated from primary school in 1943. He could not continue his studies because of the war, so he took up work in the mine of Anna in Pszów. After the end of the war in 1945 and the return from the German father's captivity, he began to study in a general secondary school in Rybnik. After his father's transfer to Rybnik, where he was to work as a teacher, Alojza Sitek continued to study in a general secondary school in Raciborz, and after his graduation he enrolled in high school. He completed them and obtained a certificate of maturity in 1949. Immediately after his graduation, he joined a seminary in Opole-Nysa and prepared for the priesthood. He received priestly ordination from Bishop Zdzisław Goliński in the Opole Cathedral on 20 June 1954. As a vicar in the parish of St. Our Lady of God's Help of the Faithful in Kluczbork worked for 6 years. In 1960 he became a notary of the Opole curia, which he served as a notary for 10 years, in parallel with his pastoral duties. In 1970 he became chancellor of the diocesan curia and held this responsible office for almost 27 years. Between 1997 and 2004, he was the director of the diocesan archive and at the same time an employee of Radio Plus Opole, today's Radio Doxy. After his retirement in 2004, he moved to the home of retired priests, where he died on 18 January 2004. 11 days before the 90th birthday. Since September 1980 he has been a close collaborator of Opole structures, participants of meetings, celebrations organized by the opposition throughout the diocese, then with Bytom, Zabrzem and Gliwice. After 13 December 1982, until 1989, he was the organizer and coordinator of the works of the Opole Primate Committee for the Assistance of Liberty Deprived Persons and their Families. He determined the fate of the interned, provided material, financial assistance, which he had paid against the fines he had tried, and provided assistance. He dealt with legal aid: he directed to trusted lawyers, paid their fees. He supported spiritually detained and their families. He was, along with Fr. Paul the Puddle and Fr. bp. Anton Adamiuk, an observer in court proceedings. I'm with Bishop. Anton Adamiuk visited the interned, e.g. In the center, he intervened in the case of sick leave. He was a co-organizer of Holy Masses for his homeland and preacher of patriotic sermons. In 1983 he was the initiator of the meeting of former political prisoners with John Paul II during his pilgrimage to St. Anna in Opole. Many times interrogated on behalf of the curia, he taught deacons how to behave in dealings with the SB. In 1986 he defended his doctoral thesis at the Papal Theological Faculty in Wrocław. Fr. Alojzy Sitek is also the author of historical works entitled: The problem of taking over the Evangelical churches by Catholics in Silesia Opole after the Second World War, and the organization and directions of the Apostolic Administration Curia of Silesia Opole in the years 1945-1956, as well as numerous memories. In 2005, he was awarded the honorary title of the citizen of Opole. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u745	Thank you. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u746	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Decision shall enter The Ministry of Finance introduced e-PIT. In TV advertising and other promotional materials, citizens are assured that the tax office will automatically prepare and make available an annual tax return on the basis of the data it holds. This means that so far information, such as those relating to child relief, rehabilitation allowance or 1% write-down the tax for a public benefit organization, will be included in the statement automatically. Recently, however, I have heard numerous voices from people who, in order to settle PIT for 2018, used a new government billing and KRS window program and objectives: details were not automatically supplemented with data from previous years. It says on the Internet that in the box where the KRS number should be entered, nothing appears, and in other cases this number appears, but already without a specific purpose and without the possibility to mark the box: I agree. There are also comments such as:: We have been informed that the foundation does not belong to the OPP, and we could not enter our KRS number. Another statement: It seems that society has been deceived. I checked it, too, and there's no OPP data in this PIT form. It is understandable that in the first days the system was overloaded and many people could not edit PIT at all. The system does not always work properly and the KRS data are not always automatically transferred from the previous year's prints. Their comments are also made by business people, because their PIT-36L, which are sent to tax offices, are not automatically drawn into the system. We already know today that e-PIT is a great failure, with many mistakes, and instead of making life easier for citizens, as it turns out, it hits the most in need, i.e. people with disabilities. Is this change in PIT settlement really in the interest of taxpayers? Does the government really want to make it easier for citizens? I think it's something completely different. It's about keeping as much money as possible from tax relief and 1% write-down. in the state budget. I've heard for a long time that the rule of law and justice wants to take a copy of the disabled out of 1%. tax. I think that's why the National Tax Administration fills PITs for us, citizens, hoping for taxpayers' trust. Maybe the taxpayer won't check his statement. Maybe he won't make any changes, maybe he won't write off the relief or 1%. And the money instead of the taxpayer goes back to the state budget? Unfortunately, these are TV commercials, these are information messages that the taxpayer doesn't really have to do anything that will be done for it. And it may happen that relief will not be recognised for people who hope that 1% will be passed on to them. that they will be repatriated from the tax benefits they have. The case is extremely urgent and shocking, because in the case of people who, thanks to the transfer of 1% they have resources for rehabilitation, orthopaedic equipment, rehabilitation tournament or simply an opportunity for better functioning with their own disability, this is a situation threatening their existing functioning. I appeal to the Ministry of Finance for corrective action and urgent intervention in this matter. There's still time to make amends. I call on the media to publicize the case to disappoint the great TV commercials in which you provide: you do nothing to settle. I appeal to the citizens: don't trust the Minister, the Ministry of Finance, don't trust e-PIT. Check your accounts with the tax office yourself, make the changes. See if your benefits are included there, or if your 1% The tax goes where you want to transfer it, to this foundation, to this public benefit organization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u747	Mr Jacek Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u748	Mr. Marshal! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! Scouts from all over the world! Polish scouts from ZHP outside the country! Friends and Boy Scouts! Hello. I think at this deep nighttime, you're sleeping the dream of the righteous. So let me go into the nooks of your dreams unnoticed so that with you I may rewind a tape of memories or dreams wearing a Boy Scout uniform. Invariably, when I enter this sentimental space, I feel the warmth and smell of burning wooden fields, I see a circle of lit faces of scouts and scouts standing around the fire, my friends. I was so shy about them at the time. We had a ride. You didn't have to make a declaration of friendship. She realized herself every day, both when we were rushing to the meetings - sometimes we were watched by our peers with a jealous eye, and sometimes they just shouted with a mockery: oh, the Boy Scout goes - as well as when we were tired of walking down from the bosom after a successful competition in the Bieszczady rally. At night we sat with our rivals, like today, in a brotherly circle of fire, and in the ears always a scout song, always a scouting tune, because a boy scout with a song conquered the world. So we grew up close, the physical one. We were eating from one canteen, eating unfinished sandwiches by our peers, drinking from one bottle. How unsanitary, he'll think modern. We slept on the ground with a paddock or one sleeping bag. That closeness was palpable and palpable. And typical jokes, quote, who farted again? It's you, isn't it? End of quote. Safe and uncontroversial. It was strengthened by a spiritual bond. Yes, we thought the same thing, we felt the same way, we rejoiced and we mourned the same way. If anything, we used to experience it together. It was just a fraternity. This is how the world's chief scout Sir Robert Baden-Powell pointed us to him. Today, on the next anniversary of his birthday, a Girl Scout, Scout and Scout family all over the world, there is a very specific circle of brotherhood, including the subtle touch of the palm of the hand, the most distant memories of dozens of places, bonfires and circles in which we have come to stand and pass from hand to hand a brotherly hug. So at this evening-night in the plenary room of the Sejm of the Republic I, the Polish instructor of the ZHR, Member, send a spark of brotherhood to all scouts and scouts, instructors and instructors from yesterday and today, to you, scouts brothers from the Polish Scouts Association, the Polish Scouts Association outside the country, ZHP in Lithuania, ZHP in Ukraine, ZHP in Belarus, to fraternal scouts, wherever they may be. Do you know when the power of a brotherly circle seems to be the most accurate? When you feel that at this symbolic moment you are here, here and now, you, the contemporary Boy Scout, but you are also yesterday when the shadows of our scout predecessors pass through the circle. You realize the truth of these words: "The heat of friendship will not be extinguished, which brought us together." We're not gonna let her get wiped out. Watch out! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u749	Mrs Małgorzata Gosievska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u750	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! January 31st this year The Warsaw insurgent, Battalion soldier, I-Protector and Home Army Fighting Group, left. A hero. Edward Żółciński, Corsar. He was the last of Nordwache's living conquerors, a notorious German gendarme facility on the street. Cold in the Warsaw Wola. A soldier from a number of those who fought for independent Poland. He gave us freedom. He gave us pride. He set an example for us in understanding patriotism. He grabbed a gun when the nation was in need. Then he taught and raised generations of Poles. His memory will never perish, his memory of his heroic actions. Nor will anyone wipe away his memories and the message recorded in the Archives of Speaking History. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u751	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u752	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! January 15th this year A draft law on the profession of pharmacist was submitted to the Minister of Health, Łukasz Szumowski. The project assumes among others. the possibility of providing healthcare services in the field of pharmaceutical care, the right to issue prescriptions continuing therapy, to carry out and commission easy diagnostic examinations and to carry out preventive vaccinations. The bill contains many modern solutions, so far in the creation of unparalleled laws. It is a law long awaited by the Polish apothecaries, i.e. about 30,000. well-educated pharmaceutical specialists. As a representative of this professional group, I am hopeful that the law on the profession of pharmacist will be passed by the Polish Sejm in the near future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u753	Mr Jacek Wilk, Freedom and Effective.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u754	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! The Middle East summit has recently ended in Poland, which, as it turned out, was the summit against Iran. We have learned that it is about preparing a war against this country. But we also learned another thing about this summit. The Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, made a very clear request to the Polish Government to draw up special legislation to return the so-called. non-fallible property from the Holocaust era. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the case comes back like a boomerang, because about a year ago the United States Congress, first the Senate and then the House of Representatives, adopted Law 447, which concerns the so-called. property without heirs, which is to be the subject of restitution in the countries to which it will refer, inter alia. to Poland. It must be recalled once again that this kind of law in Poland does not exist, because according to Polish law property without heirs is transferred to the property of the State Treasury and only special legislation, unique, contrary to our legal order, would have to change our law in such a way as to enable such restitution. It should also be recalled once again that we have an international agreement between Poland and the United States of America from 1960, which settled the issue of compensation for the property of American citizens, which has been nationalised in Poland or in any other way expropriated. In other words, those demands, which were once again made by Mike Pompeo, which stem directly from Law 447, have no grounds and there is no basis for creating specific legislation in this direction. It is also necessary to mention the agreement between Israel and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany of 1952, in which the Government of the German Federal Republic committed itself to compensate Israel for the property without heirs left in those areas occupied by the Third Reich. Unfortunately, once again, the Polish government ignored these issues, considered that there is no problem, that it does not concern Poland, and once again probably today, if I remember correctly, Ambassador Mosbacher repeated again that Poland must unfortunately adopt such legislation. Therefore, we warned about a year ago that this might end this way, that there would be further steps that this process would proceed. Unfortunately, the Polish government ignored this and believes that the problem does not exist. But unfortunately, it is consistently implemented by the American side and it needs to be put to an end. Therefore, I strongly urge the Polish government to finally say to the American side clearly and definitively that, firstly, this issue was regulated on the basis of the 1960 agreement, secondly, there is an agreement between Israel and the German Federal Republic of 1952, and thirdly, Poland will not change legislation in such a way as to create exceptional, unusual rules concerning only a certain group that would gain from the fact that Polish citizens lost their lives - because they were Polish citizens - as a result of the actions of an enemy state, as a result of the actions of the Third Reich. I remind you once again: they were Polish citizens and it is their business, and it is Poland that has the most to say in this matter, we have lost the most. In short, it must be said out loud that in Poland the Act 477 will not be implemented, and this is what I call the Government of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u755	Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u756	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to emphasize very strongly in my statement that in the vote No 153, prints No. 3233 and 3243, the vote related to the committee's report on the draft resolution commemorating the patron Jan Olszewski - the President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland I was wrong and I am fully in favour of the adoption of the resolution commemorating this great statesman, the great President of the Council of Ministers. I wanted to make a statement that I made a mistake in this vote, voting against: I am in favour of the resolution commemorating the patron Jan Olszewski - the President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland, which was prepared in the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-21-sejm-77-4.u757	That concludes our parliamentary statements. I am ordering an adjournment until tomorrow, not until today. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 28]]
