ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u1	I open the 70th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Jerzy Wcisla and Senator Alexander Swede to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Senators, please. Oh, they're already sitting, so I'm not asking. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Jan Cimanowski, senator of the fourth term, chairman of the Committee on Science and National Education, member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development died on 15 May 2019. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence Senator Jan Cimanowski's memory. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I inform you that the Sejm at its eighty-first meeting on 16 May 2019 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Postal Law, to the Act amending the Law on Police and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act on the Polish Charter, to the Act amending the Act on Road Transport and to certain other laws and to the Act amending the Law on Labour Code and some other laws. I inform you that the minutes of the seventy-sixth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The draft agenda that was sent to the State included the following items: the Law amending the Penal Code and certain other laws; the Act amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, the Act on the Organisation and Functioning of Pension Funds and the Act on Banking Law Reports by the Senate committees on these matters have not been prepared and these items have therefore not been included in the draft agenda for approval by the Senate. Following the preparation of the accounts, the agenda will be supplemented by these items. I would like to inform you that there is a pending preparation of senate printing for the point: the Law on amending the Law of the Criminal Code and some other laws. The Senators, I propose that the first to seventh points and the ninth points be considered, even though the prints have been delivered at a later date than specified in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of consideration of the first point, i.e. Act amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and consider it as a third point. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Point five.]] [[Point five.]] [[The voice from the hall: You have read, Mr. Marshal, that this is point one, and this is point five.]] I suggest... I'm gonna read it again because I made a mistake. I propose a change in the order of consideration of the fifth point, i.e. Act amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and consider it as a third point. I made a mistake and read point one. It is a fifth point, and this is a point concerning the Act on the Polish Space Agency, and considering this point as a third point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? [[There's no...]] [[Senator Rulewski.]] There it is. Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make two proposals to complete the order of this Senate meeting. The first proposal stems from the work of the Senate, in particular 2 committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which examined the petition, then gave it a legal formula and presented a report in March. The subject of this petition appears to be in print No 775 S. In short, the issue concerns the cessation of parental alienation, i.e. the granting of parents, both parents' rights to alternate parenting. This is a petition that arouses a keen interest, as probably all the senators have learned. And second point. I propose that, despite the lack of a report, the High Chamber should consider an appeal to the Kneset, which aims to stop an anti-Polish, sometimes racist attack on the Polish state. Mr. Marshal did not pass this on to the committee and there is no report, but the situation that is born is being created around Poland in Israel Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator has made two proposals: supplementing the agenda for the family code, the matter concerns foster care... That's how I understand it. [[That's smart, Jan, that's smart.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] You described it, but you didn't say which bill it was. Family code... [[This is a senate print, our initiative.]] Yes, sir. What's the number? [[Print No 775 S.]] [[Room voice: 775. Yes?]] [[Yeah, I guess so.]] But we need to know that, Senator. Would the senator be kind enough to file this motion after we've thoroughly read the print so that we can all know what we're voting on? [[It's...]] Which one? By filing a formal application... I would ask you very carefully to prepare yourself for the proposal so that we can all know what we are voting on... [[I accept your attention.]] ...not just the senator filing the motion. Which one's the print, what number? Do we know that? [[Voice from the room: 776 S.]] Yes. And the other one? Well, I can't put it to the vote because there's no printing, but I will, Mr. Senator. We'll vote separately. There's no second print on Kneset. [[But I know the date.]] Good. We will vote on Senator Rulewski's request to introduce a draft law on the revision of the family code and the foster care law on the agenda. Print No 776 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: We cannot vote on the Kneset. There's no printing.]] There's printing. [[Voice from the room: There is a basic print, but there is no printing]] There's no printing? [[Voice from the room: I am talking about first reading.]] That's why I have to... We can't vote. Mr. Senator, we can't vote. There's gotta be prints. Well, we can't. There'll be prints, we can vote. [[Report...]] In the rules... Mr. Senator, I'm informing the senator that you may request that the agenda be extended at any time. I'll read it in a minute, when you can do it. I would ask you to withdraw these two requests and report... [[Voice from the room: But about this code we can...]] I'm the one putting it to the vote right now. [[Voice from the room: Yes. I'm talking about the next...]] But you told me not to put that motion to the vote, which I am putting to the vote. [[Voice from the room: No.]] All right. You're gonna listen to the video later. Ladies and gentlemen, we can vote on the first proposal, we do not vote on the second one. Mr. Senator, we will be voting on the first motion. Who's in favour? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us further clarify what the proposal is about. I'm asking you to listen, too. Okay? Senator Rulewski requested that the order of the current sitting be extended to include a law on the amendment of the family code and the law on foster care. Print No 776 S. I'm against it. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, somebody's got to be against the proposal. [[Voice in the O.R.: It's not working...]] It's not working. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a vote. That vote is withdrawn and I ask you to vote again. I'll tell you what we're voting on again. I've been misled. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Rulewski has made a request to extend the agenda. It's the 776 S, the family code, foster care. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 18 were in favour, 51 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] The senator's formal motion was rejected. Are there any more proposals, proposals on the agenda? There isn't. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 70th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. I would like to inform you that, after preparing the Senate printing on the committee's report to the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws, this point will be brought into order as point four. At 12:00 p.m., an hour's adjournment will be announced. Once the session is resumed at 1 p.m., the order will be completed by this item. There will be a request to complete the agenda for this item. Today we will consider the first, second and third points and the one about which the order will be completed, the one I was talking about, the fourth. The votes on these issues will be held today. The remaining points will be considered on 28 and 29 May, Tuesday and Wednesday. We will begin on Tuesday at 11:00 p.m., i.e. an adjournment will be announced until 11:00 p.m. on Tuesday. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1186 and the report of the committee In print No 1186 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Health, which discussed this law on 16 May, I have the honour to present to you a law amending the Law on the revision of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The genesis of this bill is short. A few weeks ago, we decided to accept a law amending the health care law, and that's basically, you could say, a change in that change. It's a pretty simple thing to say. The amendment, which was part of the amendment from a few weeks ago, proposed among others. additional criminal rules imposed on doctors, as well as other prescription holders, including felchers and nurses. These rules, according to many experts, were too repressive and could be viewed as such a double punishment. This is a simplification, I will not go into details, but during the discussion about that law, which, for other reasons, had to enter into force as soon as possible due to other regulations. In short, we decided at that meeting to accept that law, to adopt it without amendment. She has already entered into force, has been signed by your president in the meantime and has entered into force. But then we made an agreement, specifically me, you can say, I declared such an initiative. In order to help quickly fix this, because basically everyone, including the representatives of the Ministry of Health, agreed that these regulations were going too far. And this is the fruit of this very work, a short correction, you can say. The correction is, you can say, a compromise. It's not like we're pulling out of these criminal laws because there's a rule that's the essence of the whole thing. A provision has been made to impose penalties on doctors who make mistakes when issuing prescriptions, when they do not keep medical records or when the documentation is not in accordance with the rules. You can say, again, by simplifying the matter, that it simply means maintaining a recipe that allows you to wonder whether the prescription has been written in accordance with the rules. Because if there is no documentation or it is so illegible that it cannot be determined under what circumstances and why the prescription has been issued, then it is also impossible to wonder whether the doctor was right or wrong because he simply does not have a point of reference. And that's why the recipe stayed. But there was also an additional security. It's about punishing not those who make mistakes once in a while. Because the point isn't to scare the doctors so they don't decide to issue prescription recipes and go on drugs that don't have refunds. Therefore, it is proposed that such a penalty will be imposed only if the result of the calculation proves that it exceeds 500 PLN. These smaller penalties will not be imposed at all, they will not be required to handle such cases. It's just that whoever's wrong is gonna have, let's call it a reduced fare, and whoever's wrong is gonna race a lot of times. And that's actually the essence of this bill. Although the medical community would like to go even further and move away from the kind of penalties that are imposed here, saying that the existing rules are sufficient, but it seems that this is a compromise solution. It largely responds to the expectation of the medical environment, while maintaining the safety of public finances and patients, who are the most important in this regard. The Commission briefly discussed this law and, following an analysis, decided to support it and propose to the House its adoption without amendments, as I propose.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u5	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome. Does anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a very specific question: what will change this amendment from a patient's perspective? Does she make any changes or doesn't she? Just so we're clear. I'd like the senator to comment on that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u7	And Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you told the senator that the medical community would like these penalties not to be met. Was there any formal opinion presented at the committee meeting? I'm sorry to ask as a member of the committee, but I was on a delegation. Has the formal opinion of the medical community on the proposed changes been presented? And the second question, concerning the Minister's statement that those who often do so will be punished and those less often will not. Could you describe what it means often? Is it about the amount or how many times? If you could clarify that...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u9	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! As for the first question, Senator Jackowski, you can say yes: the law directly does not apply to patients, but indirectly so. Because here we are dealing with a situation where the refund process is quite complicated, for some diseases the refund is higher, for others − lower, even when it concerns one medicine. In short, a doctor must know and properly mark it on the desk, especially when he does it manually, because when he issues a prescription on a computer, it is usually the tools that support him in this. But when he does it manually - and there is still a large group of such doctors - he has to decide and notice the refund level on the reception desk. And when it comes to the process of giving a prescription for one medicine or another, you may wonder why this medicine, rather than another medicine, was prescribed to you and this level of refund. Of course, there are possible mistakes. At the moment, work is being carried out at the Ministry of Health to simplify this system. Thanks to the electronic reception desk, it is likely that it will be possible to significantly, if not entirely, to depart from the principle of participation of a doctor in the process of determining whether the refund should be paid at all and possibly what level of the refund should be paid, but this is a matter of the future. Today, unfortunately, because this process is quite complicated, there is simply a certain probability, less or more, that the doctor will mark it wrong. And then the question is, did he just make a mistake? Of course, if a mistake would result in a penalty, and a serious amount of money... Because, as a general rule, this process of punishment takes place on two levels. First of all, if the prescription has not been issued in accordance with the regulations, then the doctor is obliged to refund an unduly calculated refund. It's actually not a punishment, it's just, you know, a refund. Secondly, this law also deals with this - there is also the question of punishing a doctor for doing wrong. And it can be said that this decision to limit the punishment of a doctor for one or another offence, which was introduced just a few weeks ago, as if it were going - with a guarantee that small amounts for which we consider as if a priori, that these are mistakes, that nothing else is behind it, will be, let's call it, such a scare for doctors... Why does this affect patients? Well, because, unfortunately, some doctors, considering that this process could be dangerous for them... If they're not sure how to issue a prescription, they retreat and for example. They're reaching for drugs that aren't even on the refund list. And of course that's not good for patients. So you could say this: we have to defend on the one hand the correctness of this whole process... It is obvious that medical documentation is not only used for the control by the National Health Fund, but also serves as a tool for improving or securing the quality of health services, because it is a question of the memory of this doctor and the next doctors. It is clear that sometimes this documentation needs to be reached, not only in matters of responsibility of one or another. But on the other hand, the point is that this process, rather complicated, doesn't paralyze doctors like that. There are situations. There are a lot of situations like this. The doctor, instead of a refunded drug associated with these consequences, could reach for some, say... not so much the equivalent, because here we are not talking about exact equivalents, but for a similar medicine, which is off the list. And then he wouldn't be subject to any sanctions at all. The point is to secure public finances in the National Health Fund on the one hand, and to not go so far as to paralyze doctors in their decisions on the other. In this sense, the answer is yes, this solution serves patients. It not only reduces a little emphasis on punishing doctors, but also, through this, indirectly serves patients. I have no doubt about it. As far as Senator Czarnobaj's question is concerned, he was a representative of the Chief Medical Chamber at the committee meeting. Anyway, if you ask me this question, if you've been heard, it's important to say that your counsel is late for the hearing. Even though it was the first point, he was... But I'm explaining to you that even though this bill has already been discussed, because your patron is late, we've returned to the first point to give him the floor. And he said, in a nutshell, what I've already said, I mean. that the medical community would expect a complete withdrawal from punishment, including in those circumstances in which there is no documentation and the prescription appears, or the documentation is not carried out in accordance with the rules. I would point out that if the documentation is not conducted in accordance with the rules, it could mean that, for example. It's not in the reconnaissance file. And if there is no diagnosis or description of the patient's condition, then the prescription appears and it cannot be checked. Right? And that is why, after a short discussion, we felt that it would not be appropriate to loosen it, and the committee decided how it had decided. About that second question, actually. I already answered them, because this limit of what we consider to be a mistake is just this amount, the amount of 500 PLN. If the penalty calculated on the basis of this error is less than 500 PLN, then we simply do not require it. [[Mr. Marshal, are you still...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u11	500 PLN less... [[500 plus, right?]] Minus. [[Minus. Definitely, Mr. Marshal, that's 500 minus.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u12	Mr. Marshal, Minister, Senator, to what you said, if you don't mind... [[Voices from the room: Microphone...]] It's on. [[I can hear you now.]] I do now. Minister, I mean the question you asked Senator Jackowski. You have shown here a mechanism that can be triggered as a mechanism that is detrimental to the patient. In addition to knowing that this can be started, do we have or are we going to run some protective elements against such an interpretation that a prescription is prescribed, which is outside the refund, so that we do not expose ourselves to costs? Are we defenseless in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u13	I'll fill in the senator's question, because the senator asked if the opinion of the Chief Medical Chamber was written in writing or if it was merely spoken orally by the legal counsel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u14	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, when it comes to this first case, it's quite complicated, so there's obviously no simple mechanism to dictate what kind of medicine a doctor should reach for. Because here, once again, we're not talking about an equivalent, which is a drug produced under a different name by another company, but containing the same composition when it comes to active substances. Because in this case, what we're talking about doesn't apply at all. If the drug has an equivalent, then, according to the regulations, if a drug is prescribed on the reception desk, the patient should be offered a cheaper equivalent at the pharmacy. Unless the doctor writes not to switch. But these are rather exceptional situations, i.e. They should be special. But here we are talking about a situation where a doctor reaches for a drug that is, well, you can say, used in the same disease, under similar circumstances, is not an exact equivalent, but in some sense another way leads to the same goal. These are issues that, well, you can't quite regulate in advance. Right? Because it is a matter of current medical knowledge to which the doctor is obliged to refer his decisions. And it would be necessary to show the doctor that, when he issued a prescription for such an unrefundable drug, he committed, for example, some kind of... gone away from the current medical knowledge. I think that would be pretty hard. But I would point out that indirectly I've already mentioned that. Computerisation goes first and foremost in this direction... I can also say this from my own experience, as a family doctor who has been issuing prescriptions since 2011 only by means of a computer. I'm not talking about electronic prescriptions, which, I'm going to say, go to the pharmacy through virtual space, but simply put up using so-called. It's an office program. As a rule, all such programmes contain medical assistance as regards the level of refund in the disease concerned. So that there's... You can say this: the more computerization in medical offices, where prescription is issued And we're definitely going in that direction. The easier it is to issue a prescription when it comes to refunding. So, in my opinion... Well, as I said, there are provisions on electronic prescriptions in preparation. And you may soon be able to walk away from applying this obligation to your doctor. Well, then this argument will disappear at all. Of course, what we're talking about here isn't the only reason a doctor can reach for a drug that's not on the list of refunded drugs. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Marshal, about... [[I'll think about it.]] ...the opinion of the Chief Medical Chamber, I'm not sure what it was like with correspondence... [[I see.]] ...directed to the Senate, but certainly we senators, or at least the Senators of the Health Commission, were informed on various ways that the General Medical Chamber was dissatisfied with this provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u15	You're asking Senator Golba a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u16	Mr. Senator, I have this question: will this bill actually eliminate the often expensive medications when the doctor has a substitute medicine, a substitute option, when he could write out a much, much cheaper drug? We meet often with the fact that, as we see, there are possibilities, and then we hear somewhere in the media, in the press, that it is only a matter of representing a given group of some pharmaceutical companies, which, as it were, impose a given possibility. Will this bill of conduct help to eliminate such situations?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u17	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u18	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the bill is basically, you can say, it doesn't regulate it directly. As I said before, in answer to Senator Czarnobaj, the matter is quite delicate. Well, if the doctor's reaching for a drug that's not on the refund list, there's always a certain degree of reference to the fact that the latest reports... These are usually new medicines, which, you might say, have not arrived on the list of medicines refunded yet. They usually appear on the market, they are registered, they are used, and after some better experience they get on lists of medicines refunded, of course after submitting applications and following an appropriate acceptance procedure. Indeed, we are faced with the fact that the manufacturers of these medicines or those responsible for these medicines carry out promotional campaigns among doctors, and there is no doubt about that. How much does this affect the doctors' decision? Well, that's a very difficult question. In any case, there are some provisions that prohibit such direct influence. There are, for example. such anti-corruption provisions concerning visits of medical representatives to medical establishments are, as a rule, prohibited and the provisions relating in turn to the pharmaceutical company's side concerning the so-called. Code of transparency. I mean, there are tools at the moment that show that some doctor is working with the industry for money, for example. He gives lectures, etc. It is usually found on publicly available websites which show how financial transfers were made to this doctor. This obviously does not solve the end of the problem you are talking about, but once again I repeat that you cannot go too far either. I mean, there are situations, however, that some patients are in unusual situations, they get sick in a way that, you might say, is slipping out of standards, and in their case you have to look for some medicine that is not, let's call it, in such a basic package. But it seems that you can actually sense I'm sure it's also my experience, e.g. in conversations with patients, such as older ones, who are very often complaining about the fact that a set of medicines that they take relatively, you can say, typical diseases such as hypertension, second type diabetes... The point is that these patients cannot benefit from the benefits of Law 75+, which is free medicines for seniors, because their medicines are not just from the list of medicines refunded. It's in my eye. it's too common to be explained by these unusual situations. That's all I can say. But I don't know if there's a tool, except for one, which, in my opinion, could already be used... I.e. when I was a minister, we introduced such a provision into the Act on healthcare provision, which allowed the doctor in cooperation with medical scientific associations and after the Agency accepted medical technology assessment and Tarification to introduce such recommendations in the form of guidelines for diagnostic and therapeutic management in certain clinical situations. So far, this provision is a little dead because, actually, it doesn't come up yet. However, it should be kept in mind that such guidelines will always be only guidelines, not laws, not a rule that would say: in pneumonia you use such a drug, in ulcers such a medicine... etc. This is never going to happen, because medicine has to do with it, that there are just a lot of variables that affect the doctor's final decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u19	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions, so thank you very much to the senator. [[Thank you.]] This project was introduced by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Is a government representative Mr Maciej Miłkowski is present Does he wish to speak on the bill under consideration or not? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Are there any questions for the Minister? They're here. I invite the Minister to the stand. Senator Blackbaj will ask you a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u20	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have two questions. First. After all, recently, the issue that we are discussing today was raised. Well, that's what I'm gonna say. What was the impulse for this change that we're going to make today? This is the first case. In short: can't you was this foreseen in the first parliamentary debate, during which requests were also made not to go this way? That's when you were defending... What's the matter with you guys walking away from this little step? I think it's going in the right direction, but what happened? And second question. What the Senator rapporteur, Minister Radziwiłł said, is intriguing me here... Wouldn't it be worth it to go into some kind of computerization? The target is okay, of course, but it's gonna take a while, as I understand it. Directly to the doctor's office? As the Minister said, such direct computerisation at a slightly lower level would help those who are wrong today. I ignore those who do this on purpose; it is those who are wrong. And then there's the issue of punishment. Wouldn't that be such an indirect way, some sort of step towards this high-tech target, and at the same time helping doctors who make mistakes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u21	Thank you for these questions. First question. The senator said... At the Senate meeting, the previous Senate meeting made very clear the position of the Chief Medical Chamber, which believes that the rigor of punishing doctors is going too far. Doctors think they're being double-punished. First of all, there is no doubt that this is a refund made by the National Health Fund, and the second thing is such an additional punishment. At this meeting, a representative of the Supreme Medical Chamber... At the same time, the senator said so, and the senators of the Ministry of Health announced that these provisions would change so as to somehow go towards less punishment. And there appeared the second record, which speaks of these 500 zlotys, that if the sum of penalties does not exceed 500 zlotys, then these debts are not investigated and all cases which are currently being dealt with, all these proceedings are cancelled and no claims are made. This is a much better situation for doctors. And as for the second point, as the senator said... Information systems, which are in medical entities, large entities, hospitals, outpatient healthcare providers or POZ, have such elements to assist the doctor's decision. There the doctor can check what medications are in the given indication, there is e.g. an international name or different other names for a given indication, and at the same time it appears to be payment information. So that your doctor may consult you about how much this patient is able to pay. It is often the case that medicines with the same indication are in different groups of limits, and some are not refunded at all. Sometimes medications differ slightly with indications, to a large extent with contraindications. And it's consulted with a patient. The doctor has this information in these systems and may tell the patient how much this patient will pay, he may ask if the patient is able to pay 7 PLN, 14 PLN or to purchase completely from a completely different group, unrefundable medicine for, let's assume, 100 PLN. So it's available. There are also very cheap office IT systems for private doctors. What else can you do? Such a central IT system concerns the issue of e-prescriptions. Last year, a change was made to allow the National Health Fund to allocate funds to launch IT systems with the provider. So far, it has been about the specific IT systems that the National Health Fund creates for healthcare providers. Such systems are used, among others. to keep the waiting list online, e.g. Central Railway application, but there is also a central application that works online, for patients with cancer DiLO card application. Further systems can be created, and many countries are moving in this direction, creating for medicinal entities validated, good information systems that have in the background all these medical assistances regarding disease management and patient management. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u22	Are there any further questions? Senator Blackbay has another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u23	Mr. Marshal, one last short question. Do you have any respect for the State as Ministry or NFZ... The purpose of this law is to limit refunds which are, as a rule, wrongly written. Do you have respect on a scale, for example? A year, six months, a month? If this system works... what is the respect for possible savings on wrongly-written refunds? What is the scale of this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u24	The National Health Fund continues to carry out checks, constantly. Most of the proceedings end in a lack of penalties. The exception is situations that are very important and which very often end in reports to the prosecutor's office, for example. amounts above PLN 1 million. These are exceptional situations over the course of the year, but they happen to individual doctors, and, of course, the case is already being handled by the proper service. However, we believe that this situation, in particular the abolition of penalties to PLN 500, will lead to the fact that for doctors it will definitely... feel better. Punishments will be fine, as the Minister said, and they won't cause any criminal penalties... It is known that doctors write a lot of prescriptions, especially as part of primary health care. When it comes to how many prescriptions are written for patients who had permissions and got paid 100% Because the doctor either didn't know or he didn't want to tell us, that's the kind of information we haven't had so far. From 1 January, thanks to the change of information systems and through the P2 project, the Ministry of Health collects information from pharmacies regarding the payment of patients for all prescriptions that the patient carries out, also unrefundable. We haven't done the analysis yet, but we can already see how many patients are entitled to a refunded drug, and at the same time buy it, paying 100%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u25	Are there any further questions for the Minister? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held today at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the second agenda: the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1183, and the report of the Commission In print No 1183 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u26	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission met yesterday for the opinion of the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. This law is a response to a real and growing problem for several years, the problem that localities, especially small county towns, have ceased to make possible for the population to move in an organised way over the years. This is usually the case for moving from small towns to county cities. Given that this problem... This problem should actually be addressed by local government, i.e. the possibility of moving should be implemented through local government subsidies to existing transports, but this unfortunately was not implemented. The government has therefore taken care of this, which results in a proposed law that will solve this problem. The law is comprehensive, which will solve this problem through a system of aid for transport to the localities on very specific lines, which will be supervised by the minister responsible for transport and voivodships in individual voivodships. This law provides for the creation of a fund from which the payment scheme will be implemented. The way in which aid can be applied for is also envisaged. In short, the bill is comprehensive. During the committee's meeting opinions were extremely different: from those expressed by the opposition senators, that the law is completely to be rejected, that it will not solve the problem, i.e. from negative opinions about the law, to those opinions which expressed great satisfaction with the existence of this aid, a very real, concrete one that will solve the existing problem. Because that's a problem that wasn't invented. One of the senators presented a problem that existed in the Opole Voivodeship. There, at the beginning of this year, 5 powiats received information from the carrier who carried out public transport in these powiats that since the last day of June the transport will not be carried out, i.e. the company in question withdraws from the implementation of public transport. Of course, when it is 5 powiats in one voivodship, it is a huge problem. If one takes into account that this particular voivodeship has a very weak railway network, because existing tracks in free Poland have been dismantled, dismantled, and in practice it means eliminating any connections, it turns out that it is the fantastic tools that the government has proposed that meet the expectations of those especially people who are not lucky to live in metropolises and big cities, where, as a rule, this transport is financially profitable. It should also be pointed out that the provisions of this law do not apply to aid for the transport of public use in cities, i.e. generally to the transport of public use in cities. Usually, as I say, between small towns and county cities. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u27	Thank you, Senator. I am now asking the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority proposals are directly against those that the senator has just said. Because you said the bill solves the problem in a system way. Well, we think that this is where this systemic approach to solving this problem is lacking, and that is why there are amendments, which is why our opinion on the project itself is negative. Of course, the bill is right when it comes to intentions. Because the point is to eliminate the white spots, so that these towns without connections are as little as possible to access the connecting points, to communicate in other places. But why is there a minority request, and why do we think that the bill is badly prepared, quickly prepared? The legislator has tabled 26 amendments, and we have tabled further amendments. There are still many comments to this law, it was difficult to analyse it thoroughly in this short time, but it is about deadlines, voivodeship, what times it has for publication, etc., because these things are not there. So there are still a lot of comments that could be made. However, time is little, we know that this is a law from the so-called. fives I don't know what to call her or the five Kaczyńskis or the five prime ministers. And therefore, you want it to be passed today. That's why our minority proposals are probably unlikely to succeed. However, I would like to point out what we consider wrong in this law and what should be improved. I'll start with the first case... I'm going to talk about four minority amendments, and Senator Zientarski is going to talk about an extra two because there are six amendments. The first issue is the matter of Art. 5. I would just like to point out that this amendment was withdrawn by us at the committee meeting, but I will still talk about it. The reason why this amendment would complicate everything is because it was not possible to prepare legislative changes for today. Why? That is because this amendment concerns financial assembly, which is where the funds of the fund will come from for precisely this purpose, from which sources. And the source of funding is the whole problem. There are nine sources of funding listed there. We've asked you to delete the sources. Why? Well, the first source is the revenue from emissions, it's the environmental law. We cut the national environmental fund from 85% to 80% and put it on the road. We're against it. We believe that as far as the environmental fund is concerned, there are so many tasks to be carried out that it makes no sense to reduce the national funds of the fund. And that's why we thought it wasn't a good source. I could trade another one, but maybe I'll stop for another one. The second source was a substitute fee. 55%. The third source was the fuel levy of 4%. He'll be taken away. So we're taking it somewhere. 'Cause there's not gonna be enough money in there to finance jobs. And this is where we do the editing. But the most annoying thing was that in point 4 there are receipts resulting from the Road Transport Act. And it's about penalties, fines imposed by the Road Transport Inspection. That's not enough, also for a commission of 12%. , from the Road Transport Inspection. We have repeatedly talked about the tasks of the Road Transport Inspection and how they are underfunded. We have also tabled proposals to underfinance the inspection of motor transport. It's bad on Polish roads, it's very bad. As bad as it is this year, it never happened. In the first quarter 105 people died on the Polish roads more than last year. You have to hit the alarm right now, and the Road Transport Inspection in 2021 is supposed to have 600 speed cameras in Poland. The Italians have 6,000, the English... the United Kingdom has 5,500, Germany It's over $4,000. There's so much to do to make up for and do. For example, I am talking about those speed cameras that should be; and this is the task of the Road Transport Inspection And we're spending money on other tasks with a light hand, and anyway, I don't think that money is going to be used, and I'm going to justify that in a moment by discussing further amendments. Therefore, taking money from sources that really lack money... Well, it's not right. Fifth source is the state budget Well, that's where it all fits in, so we don't discuss it here anymore. and further sources of funding. So we think that the sources of funding, as far as this bill is concerned, have been chosen wrongly, wrongly. Now, about this kind of detail about the bill... Why do we propose to delete the article? 22 in the bill? That's what Art says. 22? The payment from the Fund shall be subject to communication lines which do not function for at least 3 months. So what's the deal? The extra will only be available on new lines. I'm going to tell you what it's like, because right now we're talking primarily about the municipality, because they're just individual lines, funding for some particular line. And now, if something hasn't been driving for three months, then the local government unit can apply to the voivodeship, and the voivode who gets the money from this allocation and from the funds mentioned, allocates the money, makes a deal for it. And the question then is, why just on those lines that didn't work for three months? There are a lot of lines that are underfunded that could fall at any time. Not to mention the pekaes that are currently... I don't know, like... Niezno and others I could mention here and tell you what the situation is. So we're just talking about the lines that need to be re-created. And what is the source of funding for this line? Well, of course they're tolls, of course they're government subsidies and the surcharge we're talking about right now. As far as ticket fees are concerned, if we are talking about lines for which, I do not know, 2, Â3 people will be taking the bus because we really want to organise it this way, then it is known that this line will be in deficit, the fees will be low. The additional payment from this fund, a zloty to the vehicle kilometer, where normally the cheapest cars are within 4 zlotys, i.e. it will be an additional payment of about 25% It's not gonna solve the problem. It is not expected that new single lines will be created as a result of this law. The examination of this comprehensively, i.e. that in some area one line brings profit, the other is deficit, that there is one operator who will perform these courses, of course after the conclusion of the contract, etc., that is quite another matter. Therefore, we are calling into question... I mean. there is a request to delete the article. 22. Because does this bill even make sense if we know in advance that it will be difficult to spend this extra money on additional lines? After all, the government will eventually have to pay for it, because if it didn't, these lines wouldn't work. So it's about deleting the article. 22. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The point is to delete in points 3 and 6... The point is that the voivode, considering the application, is to consider that these lines have not been in operation for 3 months. So consistently, if we don't consider it, then the voivode shouldn't consider it. Now that's what I'm talking about, which is the order. There's art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down This is about order, i.e. that priority is given to the organisers in the following order of payment, etc. It's about the switch, we propose that in the article. 25 replace the order, because in the first place is mentioned the commune, then the inter-city union, then the county-city union, powiats, county associations, voivodship. Of course, if we want to look at this because of individual journeys, we don't want to look at the whole network, at connecting points, at communication connections throughout the county, to eliminate white points, if we just want to focus on the connection between A and B, then of course it's just municipalities... But if you approach it comprehensively, the first organ should be the county-dominant union. Here I will give an example of a solution from my backyard concerning Poznań PKS, where the starosta has just taken appropriate action, signs agreements with municipalities, etc. and as a local government unit, he will apply for these measures to the voivodship. We will be able to save the PKS, which is currently in a very difficult situation, going in this direction, through this action. A single action, in one municipality wouldn't change anything, wouldn't completely improve this kind of situation. The next example is PKS in Gniezno, a colleague may say something about it, there is a similar situation. In our view, this law does not solve the problem, it is only such a fast bill made due to elections which will not have any concrete effects. To conclude, I'm going to talk about one more amendment, i.e. the deletion of Article. 15. Art. 15 says that the organiser to whom the payment was granted is obliged to keep separate accounts of the payments received and of the expenditure covered by the payment. The organizer here is, of course, a local government unit. On what basis should he keep separate records in this regard? Of course, there is no justification for this requirement, and ultimately it could be addressed to the operator, because he gets funds from a local government unit, and he has costs, expenses, etc., and not a local government unit. So again, we're charging the self-government unit with some kind of additional record, which is... I'm just giving one example here, and I could mention a lot, a lot, a lot. To sum up, there are proposals for amendments by the Legislative Bureau, there are 20 of them, and our amendments are tabled. In addition, I could say that there are no deadlines, e.g. Voivode... There's a sequence. First, the Minister of Infrastructure is responsible for the money. He divides this money according to the scheme: the number of inhabitants, the area, etc. We could argue here whether it's all right or not. So that he divides it up and the organizer gets money from the voivode under contract. And when the voivode specifically announces the decisions in the newsletter, what are the deadlines... There's a shortage there. I am convinced that you will pass this bill, but either it will have no effect, or we will quickly update it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u29	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal for a minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As chairman of the local government committee, I have tabled 2 amendments to supplement 2 articles on the words of the metropolitan union. The point is that this law, which is supposed to be abstract, that is, for the future, should, since all local governments... Because in art. 25 in order, which I stress, and this order is not an accident... Anyway, that's why you just offered Senator Florek an amendment. It is in this order: first, to municipalities; second, to inter-city unions; third, to district-city unions; fourth, to powiats; fifth, to district unions; sixth, to voivodships. I suggest six o'clock be metropolitan relationships, seven o'clock. Voivodship. Well, then it's gonna be a total bill. It was explained that there is actually only one metropolitan relationship, Silesia, and he has additional resources, therefore there is no need, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is not how the law is created. There may be another metropolitan relationship, there may be another financial situation, there may be a real need. Once again, we have a sequence. If there is a greater need for inter-communal relationships, communes, etc., then it will not happen that I will say so, or perhaps to associations of powiats or voivodships, and it will not be implemented, for example, for the reasons mentioned here - means that the metropolitan union has money... But it is not possible, by creating a law, to exclude one local government organisation, which also aims to ensure transport cohesion. And you can't say there's a Silesian metropolitan relationship that can handle it because it's equipped. Well, like I said, that's not how you make a bill. There are criteria, there are conclusions, etc. Perhaps one relationship or another in the future would never have gotten it because it has less needs. I understand that, but why, in advance and priori, disable the metropolitan union, even if it were actually properly equipped with transport resources at the moment. I believe that the bill is simply not comprehensive when it comes to self-government, and hence my conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u31	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Jackowski was the first person to come forward with a question. Please, Senator, specify which of the three Senators the question is addressed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am directing the question to Senator Pekkis, the rapporteur of the committee. Mr. Senator, explain to me what the mechanism is to avoid a situation that unfortunately occurred in my district. I am a senator of the Ciechanian sub-region, where, it seems, some of the lines that functioned are now extinguished, because they are in deficit, in order to obtain later the possibility of refinancing just under this law. What is the mechanism to counter this phenomenon? The point is not to put out any bus lines at the moment, because barely, but somehow functioning, so to speak, just under the act of the Act since 1 January 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u33	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u34	Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, I would ask you to redirect this question to the Minister present in the Chamber, because we did not discuss this issue at the committee meeting. As I report to the committee, this seems justified.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u35	Thank you. The question is, Senator Probie.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u36	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask Senator Flork a question. I listened attentively to your speech, and at first I was even a little confused, because in such detail you presented comments to this bill that I thought you were doing this on behalf of the drafters of this bill. I have a question for you. Namely, if you were so exacting this bill, then why didn't your formation introduce this law earlier? In your formation, these bus connections were rather deleted. And second question. Can you explain to me the connection between this Bus Development Fund and the increase in accidents or the scale of this phenomenon on Polish roads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u37	Maybe I'll ask Senator Bear for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u38	I'd like to ask Senator Zientarski a question. Namely Górnośląsko-Załębiowska Metropolis, about which the senator was gracious to speak here, this is a creation which was created by a separate law. There is only one metropolis in Poland, which is, as it were, fully validated in its activities. And all she's got is... Basically, the law gives rise to two main tasks. The first task is to organize transport in the metropolitan area, the second is spatial planning. The funds are earmarked for both of these tasks. In addition, there are 41 municipalities in the metropolis at the moment, these are towns on the rights of the county and other cities, rural communities are virtually not there or there are very few. Therefore, this law, which we are talking about today, does not apply to the metropolis, especially since the metropolis has extra money to do so. You're a senator from West Pomeranian Voivodeship... I am very pleased that you are interested in Silesia, but I would like to know why the senator would like to extend this law to the Upper Silesia-Załęgian metropolitan union as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u39	Thank you. First, we ask you to answer Senator Probier's question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you for recognising that you believe that my knowledge of this law is so precise that you ask further precise questions. Why not before? Well, here I can only quote for the last 8 years, etc. You've been in charge for four years. The dynamics, of course, are changing in terms of transport, solutions, connections to the bus, rail, etc. What it looks like, we know. We know how much trouble it is when it comes to railroad repairs. We know what was promised and what is being realized. I could give you an example of the Poznan route here. Warsaw, where it was supposed to be faster, less, and it turns out that from 10 June after the renovation it will be 40 minutes longer. I could give you a lot of examples. It is therefore necessary to act dynamically, of course, on the basis of the situation. We know what the situation is in some pekaes, this is information at the last minute, and we therefore need to take concrete action. And I think it's okay to take it, just not this way. This is not an action that will solve problems. We can suggest how comprehensively this should be solved, who should solve these problems, etc. In addition, legislation already regulates this in some way, but it is only necessary to use it. What's the connection to the accident I was talking about, which you were asking about? Sir, it's very simple: it's about funds. I told you, it's listed there, which funds money is taken from. Therefore, if we take from funds related to, among others. with the Road Traffic Act, the tachographs, the transport of dangerous goods, etc., if we're taking the money for inspection... Well, obviously there's a clear and obvious connection. What's wrong with it lately? The last three years have been terrible, the worst that have been on Polish roads, because every year... If you've taken the statistics since 1990, you'll see what it's been like. Every year the number of people killed fell by about 250, so on average, and for 3 years it stood still. No cameras in Poland, no self-government... Therefore, the money that the Road Transport Inspection is using for this purpose should be used for this purpose. We're behind, we've got a lot to do, we've got to alert, because it's really bad. At the end of the year we will give statistics, about 100 more people died in the first quarter, and we are waiting. This is the first time it's started to grow, to go up very strongly. We do not take any action and use money for other purposes, and we do not spend it where we should hit the alarm. That's why there's such a connection to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u41	Now I ask Senator Zientarski to answer Senator Bear's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u42	Well, I think I've made my point, but I'll repeat it again. The point is that... I don't introduce a metropolitan union, this Silesian one, as the only one currently existing, I'm just saying that these are listed in this act by local government entities and another entity... The only thing missing is the metropolitan relationship, but it could be different... As I explained, the law is general, abstract, not specific to a particular community or a specific metropolitan union. After all, we have been talking for a long time, wondering if we could create e.g. It's a three-city metropolitan union. This is not an idea that exists from now on. Therefore, it is a principle that this law should be comprehensive. And the question is whether a given subject has a relationship with money... This is already an argument concerning the allocation of funds. However, there may be some communication problems within the metropolitan union. This cannot be ruled out. And in a situation like this... I hope not, but I think it's a metropolitan relationship, since it wouldn't be money anyway... He's secured, but all the more reason to put him in here, so that it's not, so to speak, this gap, so that no self-government entity, like I said, is left out.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u43	You're asking Senator Anna Shark a question. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'll redirect... I had a question for Senator Pekkis, but I will actually redirect it to the Minister.]] Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? No one's checking in. Thank you, senators. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Minister Rafał Weber, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, wish to speak? Let's go to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the pleasure of presenting a very important law, which is connected with a very high social expectation. We want to set up a public service bus development fund. This is another instrument that is being implemented by the Government of Law and Justice as a tool to combat communication exclusion. At the moment, whether 3 very powerful instruments are being implemented, 3 other powerful instruments are being implemented to improve infrastructure. One of them is the National Road Construction Programme, which amounts to PLN 135 billion by 2025. The second instrument is the improvement of the railway network, i.e. the modernisation of railway lines, but also the purchase of a new railway rolling stock - the railway programme for the total value of PLN 70 billion. The third instrument, which was introduced at the end of last year and which aims to support local authorities in modernising local road infrastructure, i.e. the Self-Government Road Fund... Only in 2019 is this amount of PLN 6 billion, which is already passed on to local governments on this basis, so that they can modernise so that they can build new communal and district transport routes, but also And now we have the pleasure to present to the High House a project consisting of funding, up to 1 PLN to 1 tonne-kilometre, which will go to local authorities to restore bus connections or to organize new bus lines, new transport lines. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for your discussion, and yesterday, at the meeting of the joint Senate committees, and today, in the plenary room. I, frankly, as a Member with three and a half years of experience, have taken part in the parliamentary discussions before, by all means. There the level of emotion is much higher, and the level of culture in the debate It's much lower than that. Thank you very much to the senators and for yesterday's sitting and for today's exchange of views. It is really at a level, even though we differ on certain issues, on specific issues. I thank you very much for being able to differ in opinions and for being able to present our arguments in a cultural way. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me in this first speech to answer some of the questions that have been raised in this first part of the discussion. We, as the government's side, are dealing negatively with these amendments that were tabled at the Senate committee meeting because we believe that, first of all, when it comes to sources of funding, we have created them as well as in the case of the Self-Government Road Fund. So there are several sources that are going to create a fund. We have agreed with all those who are responsible for these measures, and really none of these sources will be thinned out, which would cause that some tasks will not be carried out. The fact that in the first part we're going to feed on the road fund and the railway fund, redirect some of the funds to the bus fund will mean that the previous 2 they will be compensated on the basis of increased excise duty. So the amount will be supplemented by excise duties and road tasks and railway tasks will be carried out as planned as planned. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, the low-carbon fund... Well, we think that redirecting transport, redirecting transport from cars to buses, and that's what we care about, will generate less fuel consumption, will generate less emissions to the environment, that we will be doing environmental action here. This results from the use of the low-carbon fund. The case that you just raised, Senator Florek, the proceeds from the penalties that are imposed, among other things, I stress: among other things By the Road Transport Inspection... Well, ladies and gentlemen, these penalties have so far directly affected the state budget. This amount was never at the disposal of the Road Transport Inspection. She wasn't, and now she's not. These measures affected the State budget and could not be directed towards the current activity or investment activities of the Road Transport Inspection. So that this provision is neutral when we are talking about the operation and financing of the Road Transport Inspections. I will also disagree with this statement that nothing has happened in Poland in recent years in the fight for greater safety on Polish roads. Well, ladies and gentlemen, important information: the safety report on Polish roads for 2017 clearly showed that 2017 was the safest year for this segment. We've had the least traffic accidents and, most importantly, we've had the least casualties of these accidents, the least fatalities. This downward trend was maintained in 2017. That number went down, it was under $3,000. I am talking about the deaths of those who died on Polish roads. It can be seen that the actions implemented by the Ministry of Infrastructure, by the National Road Safety Council, are effective and necessary. They will continue to be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the metropolitan union. This relationship was concluded, among others. to organise public transport in municipalities that belong to the union. For the organization of transport, the union receives more than 340 million PLN per year. This is a very large sum. This is a very large amount of financial resources, which will certainly be sufficient to organise this transport properly and correctly. That's one thing. Secondly, the vast majority of municipalities belonging to the metropolitan union are urban municipalities which organise only urban communication and it is excluded from the possibility of receiving grants under this law. We want to restore communication links in provincial Poland, local Poland. We want to take particular care of those regions where the exclusion of communication has progressed in recent years. The 2015 report says that up to 20% of Polish villages did not reach buses, did not arrive organized transport. Now, after 4 years, in 2019 we have information that there are more such settlements. This law is intended not only to prevent the elimination of further bus connections, but also to restore connections that have not yet been implemented. I am at your disposal as regards the questions. Questions can now be asked towards the Ministry of Infrastructure. I would like to say that both us and the experts who were present at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, and the local authorities, we have great hopes for this law. In our view, this is a system solution. We believe that this is a solution that will really contribute to the effective fight against communication exclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u45	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. The first question you ask is Senator Anna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'm still going to make an amendment. Minister, I come from areas where this phenomenon occurs very often. It's a popey area, deserted. The problem is mostly about the time when school buses don't get there, vacation periods. Then the elderly can't get there. Not to the store, not to the doctor. And that's what I'm gonna have a question about. Why didn't you think of a change in this area? I think this change, this bill is very good, but I didn't get a record of it. And my second question. Is it true that, at the final stage of government legislative work, there is currently a law on public collective transport, which will essentially cover this issue as a whole? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u47	Senator Kleina's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask how much the law that we are currently pursuing is linked to the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport. This law provided for how collective transport should be organised at different levels of government. We're talking about bus transport, county level. After the takeover of power in 2015, you repeatedly postponed the date of entry into force of this law, at least as far as its main provisions are concerned. You were moving the date of entry into force of various elements of this law. In the case of the last amendment of the Collective Transport Act, the dates of its entry into force were even postponed by the Act implementing the Budget Act for 2019. So does this bill that we're investigating today have anything to do with the Public Transport Act, or does it have a basis in this bill? I am particularly thinking about the provisions on the development plans for public transport, which were obliged to create in their territory districts over 100,000 inhabitants. They were supposed to show those lines that are deficit, which should have some support, etc., etc. Did the state, when preparing this bill, link it to this law on public transport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u49	Please, Minister, there are three questions. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo. As to Senator Shark's questions, I would like to say that I thank you very much for your opinion. The statement that this bill is very good is honey for our hearts. I hope that she too will be very good in the implementation. In fact, we are planning to change the functioning of school transport by bus. In the bill, which was mentioned here earlier by the senator and by your senator, i.e. in the law on public collective transport, in the so-called. PTZ... At the moment, the PTZ is going through consultations within the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers. We hope that even before the holiday break this bill will go to both the Sejm and the Senate, and will be adopted, because there really need to make changes that are needed to ensure that the Bus Fund Act works properly. That's what we're gonna do. I do not want to talk more about the PTZ Act now, because there may still be changes in the form of government consultation, but we are actually working on it. I hope that she will enter the Sejm and the Senate rather quickly and we will be able to discuss and work on it here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u51	Senator Kleina... [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] Everything's been said, right? Now the senator is asking you a question... [[Voice from the room: Shark.]] Senator Shark has already asked a question. He wants to ask another one? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u52	Once again, as it were, Minister, I would like to ask whether, in this connection, there is a point in creating a law for these three months, and then creating this comprehensive act on PTZ, which you are talking about. Wouldn't it be better to just get rid of the mistakes I think... Because I think it's a promotion of inappropriate behavior, if there's a point in winding up the line for 3 months, and it's the municipalities that are already doing it, unfortunately, to get the money back to that line first. I don't think that's the right thing to do. Therefore, wouldn't it be better to give a comprehensive regulation just in that law, which is at the final stage of design? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u53	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u54	Thank you very much. However, we believe that this law is now needed in order for local authorities to be able to prepare together with the carriers for the legal framework that is contained in this law. And I have a huge appeal to all these carriers... to all the local authorities that are organizing sub-regional services to hold off with the termination of the line. We have such signals, they are lucky to be single, to analyze the network of their connections and actually achieve the purpose of this law. Because these local governments will be able to receive funding when the buses reach the settlements that they are not now reaching. And that's what we care about. We give a financial instrument, we give a legal instrument, but we expect transport to be carried out also in those places where they are not being implemented now, i.e. there is a fishing rod, but there is also waiting. And I hope that our expectation will be fulfilled. At the moment, we have the following diagnosis: for the transport that is currently being carried out and are in deficit, we need to add 40.80 gr to the car km. We offer a zloty to further increase the interest of local governments in this law, so as to give them another argument for really considering whether or not to go with transports to those places where buses are not now commuting. So that this exit to the local governments is bigger than what they formulated. Importantly, in consultation with local authorities, we have reduced the value of our own contribution to this deficit. In the first draft law there was 30% on the part of local governments, and then, after the signals that it was too much, we lowered this level of contribution of the local government to 10%. , to a minimum of 10%. So that in this layer this law is refined and in my opinion, in the opinion of the government it should be adopted so that local authorities can prepare themselves to carry out bus transport.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u55	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u56	Thank you. Minister, this is a government project, undoubtedly very important for local governments. You were just talking about consulting local governments. I would like to know whether the draft law was assessed by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. Well, that's the committee that's supposed to take the floor on important matters. If he was consulted, I would ask for an answer as to the opinion of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government, and if he was not, please tell me why he was not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u58	Thank you very much. We have decided to consult this law in a different way than through the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. She was consulted at the beginning of March, in the form of a project shown on websites and the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the Government Legislative Center. For a few weeks we received various kinds of comments from both carriers and local authorities. There were a lot of these comments, but the vast majority overlapped. However, the most important one, as I said earlier, was the requirement for too much own contribution. We met this point, reduced the government's own contribution to the funding of the deficit from 30% to 10%. So that we show here that we are open to the arguments of local governments and we accept those that actually concern what may cause difficulties in implementing this law. I say again: we have considered it a legitimate other form of consultation, which has also proved to be a good one in our assessment. This number of comments that have come to us really shows that anyone who wanted to comment on this could have expressed such comments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u59	You're asking Senator Golba a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u60	Minister, there is no doubt that the bill is needed, that it is as if at the time. [[I can't hear you...]] [[Voices from the O.R.: You can't hear...]] We have information... [[Voice from the room: Louder.]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone must be turned on.]] It's on. [[Voice from the room: It's louder.]] Minister, there is no doubt that the bill is very necessary, that it is as if very timely because we have received practically many different signals over the years, that it is very difficult to get people to work. My question to you is whether it would be justified to remove the article. 22 laws, how does a minority of committees contribute? And what I'm saying is, do you have any calculations in the department that show that this kind of transport pays off only when it's 4 zlotys per mile? 'Cause I think that's probably an excessive amount. Well, the minority moved it. I know that the transport of goods is a cost of 3,50 PLN per kilometer, and here is such a high amount. Isn't she exaggerated just to interfere with the entry into force of a very good bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u62	Thank you very much. I'll start by answering the second question. The estimates available to the Ministry of Infrastructure show that collective transport carried out outside the cities, depending on the carrier's performance, costs from PLN 2 per tonne-kilometre for private carriers up to PLN 3.60 and PLN 3.80 per tonne-kilometre for PKS. It is known that PKS has a different structure, but the organisation of such an enterprise is different, which is why it is more expensive there. Private carriers have smaller buses, and in principle buses, they are smaller companies, there is less employment, so that amount for cars kilometres is lower. The data that I reported 5 minutes ago is that the deficit lines that are currently operated by bus carriers are currently related to PKS, i.e. at the moment these deficit lines are functioning with a deficit of 40 and 80 gr per tonne-kilometre. In view of the creation of new points of reach, and this is what I repeat once again, mostly depends on this law. The deficit will be slightly higher, but the payment of the zloty to the carzokm will ensure, firstly, that the deficit is covered and, secondly, that a reasonable profit is achieved, which is also regulated in the regulation. So, depending on the carrier... With a private carrier, the cost of such transport is PLN 2 per wagon km, and with a local or state carrier such as PKS, even PLN 3,60.3,80. As for the first question, however, we consider that the reconstruction of lines which did not function at least 3 months before the entry into force of the law is necessary. As I have said many times, the elimination of excluded places, the elimination of white spots, that is the purpose of this law. And through this provision, we want to achieve this goal. We believe that local authorities are able to do this, that all those who are now organizing collective transport are able to do it. Such signals were sent to us at, for example, meetings of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, where the statements of experts on this law were even more favourable and positive than the statements of the government party. It's really been that way sometimes. I refer those who do not believe me to the reports of the meetings of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u63	You're asking Senator Klein a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! However, I will go back to the matter of the basic law, which I believe is the basic law for this law that is currently being processed, and therefore to the law on public collective transport, which was passed for the previous coalition. She had a long vacathio legis for different laws, local governments were preparing for this law, but the state, taking over power, removed these laws, moving the entry into force for a long time, moving it back into force... For the last time, you moved this country on 9 November 2018 so that some parts of the law will enter into force on 1 January 2020. In the meantime, the Senate has taken the legislative initiative, it is an initiative to amend the law on public collective transport, and in this case you have strongly committed yourself to Senator Czelej, trying so to push forward, but nothing has been done. Therefore, I ask: why do you do this? Why, under the pretext of the campaign or rather forced by the election campaign and the words said by President Kaczyński, that it is necessary to finance the PKS, you pass a bill that will not solve problems in practice? Today I consulted this in a large district, in a pole district, and asked how this law would work in practice. Turns out it might not be as they say here... Nevertheless, those who are practically to carry out this law say that it will lead to an even greater mess at the level of local, sub-regional transport, because today it is the district that organizes transport. No, worse, better, within the scope And you say that you will only support the new lines that will appear, and that just means a complete mess. Of course, everyone would want such lines to appear, but the local government, choosing the possibilities today, as if it was focusing on where it is possible. [[Sir...]] And these lines are also scarce. Why did you take this kind of procedure on this matter? It would be better to adopt the mother's law and later introduce these provisions on financing. [[Of course.]] Well, everyone, even the PiS senators, nodding their heads, confirming that they are, and you're doing exactly the opposite. Why? Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u65	Senator, that's a question, not a polemic. Question! And you're going into polemics. Minister, I ask for brief answers, concise answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u66	We will draw up a draft bill on collective transport law, and then we will talk about it. We, unlike the senator, are receiving positive signals from local government officials regarding this bill. And she doesn't impose anything. Any local government that wishes to use this instrument will be able to submit an application to the voivodeship, Mr. Senator, and if it doesn't want to use this instrument, then no, because there is no rigour that it will have to do so. And if there are districts where transport is organized at a very good level, if there are no deficit lines there, then I am very happy about it, really. [[There are deficit lines everywhere, Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u67	Mr. Senator, please don't argue. Please sign up for... [[I'm sorry.]] Yeah, that's the second time I've asked for it. Please sign up for the discussion. The question is, Senator Probie.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u68	Mr Marshal, I would like to ask the Minister a question relating to the subject that has already been mentioned here, namely road safety. I met with extreme positions here: Mr. Senator Florek was talking about a very poor state of security. I didn't get that kind of information, so it's hard for me to comment. And the Minister cited specific data that show that security was improved. It is widely known that the construction of new roads correlates positively, positively, with a state of safety. Therefore, I would ask the Minister to present a summary of the data concerning the construction of new roads and the state of safety on our roads if there is no meeting today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u69	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u70	Thank you very much. I'm confirming what I said earlier. The year 2017 was the safest year on the Polish roads at the time we had to deal with the lowest number of accidents and the lowest number of fatalities in the last few decades. This number is actually falling and in 2017 we also had a decrease, as I say, in the overall number of accidents, but also a decrease in the number of deaths. If there is a need to provide detailed information in writing, then, of course, Senator, in response to this expectation, we will prepare it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u71	You're asking Senator Rotnick a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I may be returning to the matter that you have already mentioned, but it may still need to be completed. I am the co-author of the minority proposal in which we ask for deletion from the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of all those records which relate to the non-functioning of the carrier's collective line for the period indicated, i.e. 3 months. Don't you think that this is actually the point of the organizer's mommy and forcing him to do things that are good for the cause? That's the word I'm going to use here, they're cheating the voivod, they're cheating us all? Because if we close the line, it's easier to get this fund. I say that because I read these records literally, e.g. This: number of public service bus lines for which the organiser has submitted an application And then there's what I'm talking about. That did not function at least 3 months before the date of entry into force of the Act. So that's basically the only condition, and that's all there is to it. And it's gonna work since 2020, because the rules that talk about the application, the consideration, make money for it only in the new financial year, actually in the new financial year. That's how I understand it, but if you need anything, just get me out of the way. I think that there should be a programme and there should also be those lines that have a chance of developing, i.e. they should also have the right to access these measures. So that's one of the additional conclusions that the voivod can consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u73	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u74	First of all, the fundamental issue is that the law will enter into force one month after the publication, so it will be operational in 2019. If everything goes smoothly and well, local authorities, organizers of such transports, will receive government support from September this year, so that in the new school year they will also secure transports related to the delivery of pupils to schools, not only in the territory of one municipality, but also in the territory of the entire county or district union. So that I assure you that the funding is prepared, all the provisions needed for this law to function in the last 4 months of 2019. And funding for 2019, let me remind you, is PLN 300 million. Another case, not functioning the line at least 3 months before the entry into force of this law. We want to avoid a situation in which, tomorrow or next week, the carrier or organizer, knowing that such a law was adopted, will decide to terminate the merger so that after the entry into force of this law will receive funding. That's the rule, that article. 25 is the opposite, the answer to such a negative practice. We say to the organizers or carriers like this: ladies and gentlemen, if you want to receive funding, you want me to say, put it in the regulations of this law, re-orient your lines, actually to these villages, to those places that you are not now commuting to. This will help you to receive funding and achieve the goal of eliminating white spots. This is a very simple, clear principle that we introduce through this article. If it happened that the communication lines were closed in January or February this year, and the carriers or local authorities did so without knowing that such an instrument or such a tool would be put in place... They will be able to recreate these lines in the way they functioned before, while carriers carrying out transport now will have to refocus themselves on new connections, on new lines, so that they can reach, once again, those places they do not reach now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u75	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u76	Thank you very much. I'd like to elaborate on that thread I asked Senator Pekkis about. The Minister has already partially answered this question. I mean, isn't it going to be like this, let's call it, a market game with the liquidation of the lines that are balancing at the limit of profitability at the moment or are even deficit, just in the context of the operation of this new law. What are the security mechanisms here? In my district, it happened. I am a senator from the Ciechanian subregion That right now, in the district of Mławski, the lines are being liquidated very important for the inhabitants of this district. He's quite extensive and not everyone has a car and financial opportunities to move their own car... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I think you've already answered that question.]] The question is... I'll finish it. The question is, what is the intensity? . on a country-wide basis - That sort of thing about eliminating lines? Did the Ministry monitor this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u77	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u78	As I said before, the lines have been successfully liquidated and not since yesterday, not for 2 years, but for 29 years. In 1990, we dealt with bus transport at nearly 1 billion km per year. That's half this year. The annual bus service is just over 460... So that the termination of communications has been taking place for 29 years and is also taking place in the current year. We want to distinguish between such liquidation, which, as the senator said, is a market game, from such a natural liquidation of transport, in which the organiser is in fact unable to pay the deficit. The market-game security shall be Article. 25 referring to the fact that these lines had to be liquidated at least 3 months before the entry into force of the Act, i.e. they were naturally extinguished due to financial difficulties in maintaining them. In this way, we avoid a situation in which intentionally liquidated lines It is to be wound up in order to resume it after the entry into force of the Act and to receive funding for these mergers; they could be implemented and are not It will be implemented after receiving a zloty, 80 gr or 60 gr, depending on the amount of the deficit, to such a line. That's the art. 25 is such a fuse, one that regulates this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u79	Mr. Senator, would you like to fill in? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I know about this 3-month mechanism. The announcement of this program appeared probably in April. The Act enters into force, if I understand it correctly, on 1 January 2020... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: The Act enters a month after...]] Explain this mechanism to me so I can understand it. Are the following liquidations not part of what we call a market game? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u81	The Act shall enter into force one month after publication. Well, the question is, how soon will the High House pass this bill when you sign it and when it's published, but it's coming into force this year. As I have said several times here, this period of 3 months is intended to avoid such deliberate and premeditated termination of bus lines in order to receive funding. It is, so to speak, a fuse that will rule out negative market games in bus transports.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u82	That's what the Minister said. I don't think we need to repeat it. Thank you. You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u83	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, before we started the procedure here, I met in five counties... I urge the Minister to make your services more penetrate the situation in the counties, see what she's like. I also urge you to think about what the rush is for, since it is in many cases not only imprecise, but... You often use the phrase "white spots." Minister, white spots are exactly where there is no economic development, and it usually involves the fact that these municipalities are primarily... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question. You're starting a discussion. Question.]] Yes. ...poor. Minister, my question is very concrete: what are they supposed to do with their own contribution? The second question I'm pulling out of is that's the question you just asked the senator. I think it's a combination, too, those three months.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u84	Thank you, Senator. The question was asked. Now is your question. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, on the one hand, there's a charge of urgency, that too soon, there's a suggestion to wait, analyze, refine, and on the other hand, at the beginning of the discussion, there was a statement that the current government had done nothing for three years. Well, either one or the other. These are statements that rule each other out... [[He didn't do well before.]] ...and there's only one side to the political debate, from the senators. I would like to say with full responsibility that the work on this bill took a really long time. It is not that this program, this idea was presented in March this year and then work began at the Ministry of Infrastructure. In fact, the problem has been diagnosed much earlier and work on the drafting of the legal framework has been carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure for many months. From this point on, I would like to thank all the employees, the heads of departments, the wardens, all the people who have been preparing this project over the last few months. Thank you very much for this. This is a new law, this is not a novel of regulations that already exist, but it is the creation of a new law that consists, as I remember correctly, of 55 articles. And really... [[Question!]] One more word, Mr. Marshal. A really small, relatively small number of amendments tabled at both Parliamentary and Senate committees show that they were prepared very well, but that's very good. What will be your own income? Like I said, 10%. is the own contribution of the organizer: municipalities, associations of municipalities, powiats or associations of powiats. Yeah, but we're hoping that these lines, these buses or buses aren't gonna carry air, they're gonna drive passengers who are gonna pay for tickets, and that's how they're gonna generate revenue.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u86	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u87	This is the last short question, Minister. I mean, the funds of the fund, what they're meant for. The Act defines that for the financing of tasks and expenditure related to the operation of the Fund. I remember our discussion about 500+, about the operation of this fund. There was 2% of it. or 1,5% We've been discussing this. I'd like to know something about fund-service expenses, because I didn't find any record in the bill, and there should be a limit to this expenditure. Therefore, I have a question: is there a provision in the law? This should be written What is the maximum expenditure on fund handling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u88	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u89	Mr. Senator, the fund's expenses will not be borne by... i.e. they are not budgeted for either the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is the authorising officer or for the voivodships. We will implement this law with the personal potential we are currently working with. But they will be possible to use by the organizers. It is known that the creation of a whole network of connections, all lines by the organizers will require additional work right there, in the old towns, in the municipalities. And we anticipate that these measures will be used for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u90	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u91	Mr. Marshal, Minister, three short questions. The year 2019 is PLN 300 million. Do you have a simulation for how many kilometers a day, if we assume it's five days a week... Because we're talking here mostly about driving as part of school and other needs, but let's say it's five days a week. 2,000 municipalities, because I don't count those whose bill doesn't apply... Do you have calculated how much per day, statistically, will you be able to travel miles in one municipality? That's the first question. Two. I understand that the mechanism is as follows: PLN 300 million in 2019... And how much is planned in 2020? And if you have any assurances, I don't know whose political or whether you're on the side of the finance minister... Because the worst possibility would be that the program would be running. On the idea, we agree on the solutions we discuss. And we wouldn't have seen him in 2020. Because a person or a company that launches such a transport should have some perspective. And one last question. That's what Senator Klein asked. Tell me why it's not like that. I will sign up for a well-known melody - it's been 4 years since you're a state that a law, which is a good law, a law on public collective transport, which should be the basis of a certain strategy... If we cannot afford, as a state, to implement the entire law, then we choose a part and implement it. And you're making a separate bill from the side, a new source, and... [[It's in the debate...]] ...a new system. Simple question: why don't you go on this road on the basis of the Act of 2010, if I remember, just launch a new path to ideas and tasks that I believe should be supported?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u92	The last three questions. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u93	Thank you very much. The question of funding. Well, it was a government project, it was consulted by all ministries, also by the Ministry of Finance. These sources are stable and guarantee funding not only in 2019 but also in 2020 and beyond. That is PLN 300 million in 2019, in the following years PLN 800 million. And if we assume This will be the answer to the first question. That each organiser will receive the maximum amount of support, i.e. 1 PLN to 1 car km, then in case of spending 800 million PLN we will recreate 800 million km of bus connections. [[A year?]] A year. [[All over Poland?]] Yeah, all over Poland. Annually throughout Poland. [[I've already divided it into municipalities, and I'll give you the amount.]] Please? [[I already figured out how much this is for the municipality...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Voice from the room: Before recess...]] [[One at a time. Please, the Minister answers.]] In fact, you can calculate how much it's going to be average. But, as I say, the regions differ in terms of the organisation of communication, and they differ in terms of needs. Well, we've ruled out a metropolitan relationship, they're organizing it in their own way. Each region of Poland is different. Let's see what kind of behavior this is gonna be. In general, the receipt of this bill is very good. The expectation is being formulated towards us and that is why we are implementing it through this new law, which, as I said earlier, has been being prepared at the Ministry of Infrastructure for many, many months. As regards stability for carriers, during this first transitional period, carriers will sign contracts with organisers for a maximum of 1 year, but when this law enters into force, contracts can be concluded for up to 8 years from 2022. So that there will be stability for carriers, guarantee that the local government, the organizer will want to use bus companies, whether it is its own as units, local government companies, or operating on the private market, for a longer period of time. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u94	Thank you very much. What now, Mr. Secretary? Does anyone else have a question? [[Senator Klein has a question.]] Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! There is a request for a written reply in this matter. This question is not directly related to this law, but it refers to what the Minister said at the beginning, so it relates to the tasks you carry out. I would therefore like to ask you to answer the question at which stage are the preparations for the tenders to be announced in June. This is the information provided by Minister Adamczyk and Minister Müller of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. They signed such an agreement in Słupsk about starting, starting the construction of the Kaszubska Route, expressway No 6 from Szczecin to Gdańsk. And at what stage are the tenders, which the Minister said would be announced in June this year, concerning the section from God's Field to Słupsk and further to Sianów on express route 6? At the same time, I have a request for information about the stages of construction of this section of the expressway No. 6, i.e. from God's Field to Sianów. Thank you very much. But it's in writing, because it's like it's not...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u96	This is not the subject of today's discussion. Of course, the answer will be given in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u97	But this is about the bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: No.]] No. [[That refers to...]] But it's not... [[But, Lord...]] But it's not a formula, Senator. I note that this is not a formula for addressing the Minister. You are asking for a written reply in a case other than those covered by this law. [[But this...]] There's another formula... [[Yes.]] ...other possibility, we have statements, we can direct the writings. [[I'm doing it systematically, Mr. Marshal, just...]] And please keep doing this, because our ministers always answer the questions meticulously. [[They're not responding right now.]] Which question didn't they answer? [[They answer in such a way that there is no answer.]] Yeah, but that's the way it is. Good. [[You just can't, really...]] Mr. Senator... [[I'd show you the answer...]] I'm gonna... okay, okay. I'll follow the rules. Does the Minister undertake to answer this question or not? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: There is no problem, Mr. Marshal. If there's...]] Thank you very much. Okay. By the book, okay. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you very much, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, for your work. I also thank the Senate legislators very much for the comments that have come to us. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the Minister, a representative of the government, has undertaken to provide written answers to questions addressed to the Minister by Senator Probier and Senator Kleina. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski first.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to say that it is a matter of recognition for this draft law and in general for addressing the problem, a problem which may be less important and burning for the inhabitants of large cities, but it is very important for the inhabitants of smaller centres, especially rural areas, because the fact is And in the course of the discussion, the Minister said so. That over the last three decades we have been dealing with the dismantling of the network of connections, which Poland has been communicating. Some of these liquidations were, of course, rational, associated with the civilizational changes that took place, but some of these liquidations, especially those made in recent years, have particularly affected the lives of the people of these smallest centres. When we look at it from the state side, there is a dilemma here, a dilemma similar to what we have, for example. in relation to education. It is known that in the rural environment, maintaining a school and teacher is more expensive than in the big city. Why? Because classes are less numerous and teachers need to be provided with specific subjects. For this reason, local self-governments from rural areas, from small-town areas, often raise this problem in discussions on the occasion of education and education subsidies. On the part of the state, it is a dilemma whether to be guided by pure pragmatism, market accounts, not to take into account social factors and social issues, to eliminate such schools and to justify it primarily by economic reasons, or not to do so and to say that we depend on the country's even development, on the possibility of access to public services through the widest possible social circles. It's the same with crossings. This can always be justified on the market, to say that maintaining such a line makes no sense, because there are 5 or 7 passengers. Just drive around smaller resorts and see how these buses are loaded, at which moments is the greatest interest in traveling. This usually involves commuting to work or to educational institutions, universities, schools. These journeys are particularly intense, so to speak. And the question arises as to whether we should have a country that says, "Citizen, you're on your own." If you can't afford a car, if you can't afford to arrange your own carriage, you just won't have it. Or should we solidarityally approach this problem and try to meet social expectations and aspirations instead of pursuing a policy of some kind of social or economic exclusion? That's the bill. She's responding to specific needs. Of course, we can discuss whether the bill could be even better, or perhaps even worse, whether it will fulfill its hopes or not. In my deep conviction It goes in a very good direction because it introduces a permanent mechanism to talk about what to do when the carrier... Well, it's hard to ask a private carrier to subsidize a line that is clearly in deficit. And here's the backup mechanism. And it seems... I say this as a senator from the northern Mazowsze, from the Ciechanian subregion, where a whole range of attributes of smaller centres have been eliminated. It was the liquidation of police stations, the liquidation of post offices, the elimination of bus stops, the liquidation of schools, the elimination of certain health-related elements. All this was perceived by the inhabitants of such areas as a civilizational degradation of their place of residence. Our government faces them by solving these problems. The government is rationally trying to solve these issues so as not to create Poland, which would be Polish friendly mainly to the inhabitants of the largest cities, the largest centres, with the highest incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor, Senator Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators! Minister! I'm very brief because I'm signing up for a minority representative, Senator Flork. This bill, as I said, is going in a very good direction, but it has many flaws. The amendment I am going to talk about should be included in the mother's bill, as we talked about, in the law on public collective transport. Hence my question to the Minister, the question of what stage is the work on the bill. You said you were... Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me, because the Minister will probably want to address our speeches. She's a little out of the statutory standard we're talking about today. Nevertheless, while in Złońc, where because of the lack of profitability, 18 bus lines were erased, I committed myself to submitting this amendment. The municipalities that Senator Jackowski was also talking about, these are small communities, these are the Popegeer communities. They're just gonna have trouble even with that little contribution of yours you're talking about, 30% or 10%. They're gonna have trouble with that money. The second thing is, they're not communes or big villages. These are 4 farms or 5 farms, which have used this transport very often, as I also mentioned, from these transports of children to schools. Often these are older people, because as we know, young people emigrated and either go to their parents during their holidays or visit them. Therefore, it is often people who are actually cut off from the possibility of buying the necessary goods on the day or even going to the doctor or to the commune to arrange their current needs. Since, as I said, there is no such provision in this law, I have tabled amendments to the protocol, Mr Marshal, but now I will read them, because I believe the Minister will want to refer to these amendments, amendments to the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. Here I add, Minister, that I hope that, as this bill will rise, this mother law will be included in it. These records. Amendment one. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 13, paragraph 13 is replaced by the following: 1 the following point 3a is inserted after point 3: "Rules for the operation of public service bus services on Sundays, holidays and school-free days." Amendment two. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 24, the following paragraph is added: 6 the following point 2a is inserted after point 2a: the planned communication lines on which public service bus services will be carried out on Sundays, holidays and school-free days and the scheduled frequency of calls on those days. And the last amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 25, paragraph 25 is replaced by the following: 1 the following point 6a is inserted after point 6a: the number of transport lines covered by the request on which public service bus services will be carried out on Sundays, holidays and school-free days, as well as the frequency of calls on those days. I hope that these amendments will be handled and dealt with positively. I passed them on, as I said, Mr. Marshal... [[Yeah, I've already written that down.]] ...I gave them to you earlier, respecting the time of the Senate. Thank you very much and I hope to have a positive solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. The amendments are already made. [[Yes.]] Now, Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For many years, I have been dealing with transport issues, particularly local and sub-regional transport, seeing, of course, this problem that the senators have been talking about, that many towns, especially in rural areas, are excluded from communication. Thus, especially young people, students have difficulty in accessing secondary, secondary and pre-secondary schools. And that's a very serious problem. The problem is, of course, also access to work for many people in these precisely rural areas. That is why I looked with such hope years ago at the law on public collective transport adopted by Parliament, in one of the previous terms of office. This law was adopted in December 2010, it was a large, important, difficult law, so it had a long vacathio legis. It seemed to me then, and today I am still convinced that it is possible to organise this sub-regional transport well, but it requires thoughtful action, it cannot be chaotic and random actions, resulting only from the fact that there is an election campaign. It is a pity that this bill that we are working on today is involved in the election campaign, now the election campaign before the elections for Europarlament and the autumn election campaign before the elections for the national parliament. For more than three years, we have been waiting for almost 4 for you to take up this subject, because at the very beginning of your term of office you decided that the bill would cease to function. I think it was a mistake. Unfortunately, Senator Czelej was also involved in the suspension of this law, but he understood it and later prepared this amendment, which in 2018 was an initiative of the Senate addressed to the Sejm. No answer. This case wasn't continued. I think... In order not to prolong and, as it were, not to talk about these general issues, I would like to say so. In the district area or at the level of the agreement of 2,3 powiats, where there is a need to organise such a uniform sub-regional transport, there are lines which are very profitable. That can be clearly shown. I looked closely at how public transport works in 2 powiats, powiats polskiego and Lęborskiego. I am talking about these powiats because these powiats took over the joint ownership of PKS. It is clear that there are very profitable lines, e.g. Leba Lębork, where transport is perfectly organized and brings good income, not only to PKS, but also to private carriers. The same is true on the Słupsk line - Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, These are tourist destinations and there, in these areas transport throughout the year are very good. But there are also, of course, deficit transports. The State proposes such a solution that only deficit lines will be financed and payments will be made to each kilometre. In my opinion, this is a mistake, because sub-regional or local transport needs to be considered together, to a wider extent, in such a way that if there is a bus line, e.g. between the head and Lębork, which brings income, it must be treated together, for example. with a line through these tiny villages that are out of communication, because nobody gets paid to drive there. In short, because we don't have much time right now, you can say that the condition that the carrier is allowed to enter the Elbe line Lębork is that he simultaneously supports deficit lines, those on which the bus connection does not pay. However, this system, unfortunately, will lead to a deepening of this problem, because for the gold it will not solve the communication problems of these small villages, from which children, young people have to go to schools and adults have to get to work. So it seems that we need to look at this much differently, that this attempt at an ad hoc solution, such a slogan thrown in the election campaign leads to further deformities. Self - governmentmen pay attention to this. Today I spoke, also earlier, with the old people from Lębork, from Słupska, also from Cłuchów. Cłuchów is an excellent example here, lies in Pomorskie voivodship. He has set up a budgetary establishment or a budgetary unit to deal with local transport. They solve it quite well, and there is, of course, the same problem of communication exclusion. The simple way that you are proposing here is, unfortunately, a bad way. I am in favour of supporting this financially, it must be done, but it must be done in such a way that the municipality itself decides how to transfer these funds to the functioning of transport in the whole area of its action. There are really many serious problems that should be discussed in a longer discussion in order to resolve them well, in a debate that is absolutely lacking in this matter. 300 million zlotys this year is really huge, it's really huge, and next year it's going to be almost 1 billion, it's going to be 900 million zlotys. If it were wise to order this money, it could have a much better effect, because it is needed to serve local communities. You lost four years in this case by moving the entry into force of this law. Recently, last December, on the occasion of the around budget bill, the entry into force of the Act on public collective transport was postponed, and now you are suddenly preparing and implementing such a law. Well, you can't rule our country like that. A little longer perspective is needed, all the more so, as your fellow Members and senators have also paid attention to it, and they have spoken about it in our House. Like I said, Senator Czelej was involved in this case, too. At first, I had doubts when he said that the bill you guys were going to have to be repealed. We, as the Civic Platform, have adopted. He's even involved. I didn't agree with him. But then I saw that he was involved to get back to the case. Nothing, nothing. And now it's the kind of action that's harmful. We will not vote against it, but this way of spending is not a rational way, it is simply a harmful way. The starting point should be this bill that we passed nine years ago. It could be improved, changed, improved. Okay, I agree. And not just do nothing and then just give away money. Government isn't just about giving away money, really, it's not a way to make it better in Poland. This is about better organizing public life, it can often be done without money, thanks to good regulation. But the distribution goes nowhere in the long run, it's extremely harmful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u103	Thank you, Senator. Now, Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u104	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the first time, I'm here with a tablet. It's so that I can respond to some of the comments. First of all, Minister, I would like to address these sources of funding. You were talking about the Road Transport Inspection, because this issue of funding, especially in light of what Mr. Probier asked... Well, for example. the monetary penalty constitutes the revenue of the State budget, except that the monetary penalty collected by the Road Transport Inspection Authority is the impact of the Public Service Bus Development Fund, etc., etc. You said that so far this money has been in the budget. That's right, but it was the audit money, they were influencing the budget. That's why they went into the budget so that they would go back in part to the task of transport inspection. And there's almost a change in that. This change is that they will not contribute to the budget, but will be directly addressed to this fund. Okay, you can do that anyway. And in light of Mr. Probier's questions... I'd like to comment on that, because as for what Senator Kleina just said, I can sign off on all of this. He told me exactly what this was all about. We know what this bill is about and what it's for. So what I'm talking about is the right direction, that's the right thing to do, and I'm sure all of you are aware of that, too, but there's an election period, so, as we know, these situations are happening. Now, here's what we were talking about... Mr. Probier asked what this situation was like with regard to accident statistics, and so on. The Minister said something about 2017 being the best year for road accidents. I recently made a statement to your marshal about the current situation, which is in the area of road safety, and of course I know these states exactly, some by heart. In 1991 7 000 901 people were killed on Polish roads, then every year it decreased. In 2012 there was a change in statistics, January was added and it was necessary to look at it slightly differently, but then every year statistics said that on average about 200?250 people die less on Polish roads. Minister, in 2014 Polish roads were killed... And that's why I took that laptop. These are police headquarters data, direct information on what it looks like when it comes to accidents. In 2015 2 000 938 people died on Polish roads and in 2014 3 000 202 people died on Polish roads. So this trend was preserved. Two hundred and sixty fewer than the year 2014. And what happens in 2016? For the first time statistics go up, 3 thousand 26 people die in Poland. And in 2017, it really turns out a little bit again, because 2,000 831 people are dying, whether you were talking here or not. And in 2018, it's 2,000,862 people, which means the trend is going up again. As we will look at the figures from 2015 to 2018, it will turn out that we are standing in a place, that is, the trend that was previously about 250 people less each year. And that's the truth. That's why I'm asking you what action needs to be taken. Why this trend has been inhibited at the moment, we certainly know. I am writing to the Minister in this statement, which shows what road traffic control looks like in Poland. And these radars we're talking about... this is what the Road Transport Inspector's money should get for, because it has 600 of them, and it should have several thousand, like in Italy, where there are 6,000 of them, as I said, in other countries they also have 5,000 or 4,000 of them. This is not in Poland. Therefore, I am in favour of the Road Transport Inspection to finance, and it is very hard and very fast, because its actions can be effective. At the last conference I attended last week, he was the deputy chief of police from Norway and presented the situation in Norway. In Norway, the rate of people dying is less than 2 out of 100,000 inhabitants, in Poland 7.6 and in other European countries 4. About two or three people die on Polish roads than on other countries' roads. And the deputy chief of police in Norway said that they have no problem with 100 people dying on the roads a year. Yeah, but Norway's smaller. What does that tell you? This is also due to the law, because the law is tightened. We're tightening up laws maybe not where they need to be tightened up. He said they didn't have a problem with speeding by 50 km/h, because they had 21 days in jail, 21 days in excess of speed, and the tickets were from 1,000 to 2,000. And that's why the statistics you were talking about, Minister, weren't exactly... Because you have to go next year and it turns out that there's already a whole different situation... Is this bill... what Senator Kleina... Well, I could just do it again, so I'm not gonna say it again. How's it gonna affect her? Is there any chance that this exclusion will be reduced? Well, who's gonna decide that? The proposals will influence the voivodship and the voivodship will examine them. Question one... We will see if these proposals will affect the voivodeship at all, because we estimate that the zloty surcharge in the case of lines which are very unprofitable, will not encourage local authorities to organize transport, because the payment of the zloty, when it is necessary to do so 2 zlotys or 3 zlotys to pay for it, may not matter at all. And it may even turn out that this fund, this 300 million this year, will not be used at all, because there will be no need, because there isn't what Senator Kleina said it had to be comprehensively considered, because some lines are profitable, some of which unfortunately aren't... Therefore, it is necessary to organise this system, even on the basis of the rules that are in force at the moment. And nothing else. Well, this bill is, like I said, a certain pre-election humbug to show that we want to fight. We all want to fight so there's no exclusion. And we, of course, will either support this bill or hold off. I don't know. But in any case, we will not vote against. Because it is obvious that if there are measures and they can somehow improve this communication, then we will be in favour. But we're signaling that this bill doesn't solve the problem. And yes, you will still have to go back to this problem again. To conclude, I would like to say that I am still proposing amendments to the bill. Senator Shark has already reported it, so I'll also report the amendments. These amendments are mainly based on the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and were discussed at the committee meeting. In total, there are quite a number of 32 amendments. I would like to report them to the committee again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u105	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u106	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Minister of Transport said that this bill is a symbol of the fight against communication exclusion. Unfortunately, I must say, Minister, that if this law is any symbol of communication exclusion, it is a symbol of inability, of course, in this case, and To be honest, it's a dot over a dot over a dot. Minister, this bill won't wipe out the white spots, which is more than that. As an economic activist and a multi-annual entrepreneur, I am concerned that more millions will be thrown into the mud. In a polite language: this huge financial volume will not be used economically. Although I agree with you that the exclusion of communication is a very serious problem, and it is good at all, and thank you for having decided, after 3 years, to take into account the opposition's voices and to start a conversation with us. It is a pity that in such a way, because mobility, which is necessary today for economic development and to get to work, school, is indeed a development of municipalities. We all know it's very necessary when we're here. The number of settlements that are white spots on the communication map has increased dangerously in the last 3 years, because 30%, Minister, is indeed very much. I must say that nothing has been done to eliminate these white spots, although you spoke very often about these white spots today. In fact, let's look at this example: PKS in Krosno, which took out another colleague of yours from Law and Justice. You can say that this is a constant trend, because we drive around the county and we know. I think he should be taking care of this case by the prosecutor, because the style and method of eliminating a certain reality taunts. I must also say that this bill will not be effective for many reasons. Firstly, it ignores the fact that the operation of individual lines must take place, I would say, within the scope of the whole communication system. Although the Act refers to communication plans, it prefers municipalities when allocating funds, which means that e.g. communication relationships are second in place. Moreover, the Act does not introduce any mechanisms that would give rise to integration, and we know that these communication problems, and not only these, must be solved together, because the municipalities are unable to bear these burdens. After all, we already know today that unprofitable connections are co-financed by municipalities - I am obviously not discovering America - and this is a serious burden on their budgets. And you've basically skipped the local government with a wide arc when it comes to discussing this law. And here he bows down, so to speak, this own contribution of the municipalities. Minister, after all, the white spots that we have talked about so much today are being created where there is no economic development. This usually involves the fact that these municipalities are simply poor because they have no money. And you still require their own contributions. After all, it will be for these municipalities that the millstone hangs around the neck. If they want to finance it, it will again run out of other important social goals. It is indeed brilliant that municipalities, which have a difficult financial situation, should additionally charge the payment. Importantly, if there are no budget resources and you do not transfer them by the end of the year, the municipalities will not get the funds at all, which means that at the end of the municipality they will have to pay for it. Do you think the municipalities are gonna risk you not paying them and that they're gonna have to pay that extra? It's not like there's any consistency here. And finally. Minister, as an entrepreneur, I've always corrected things in my life when there was something wrong. And violent changes for change end in a huge loss. I hope that's not the case. Of course we're voting for this bill. Of course the bill was prepared for PR. And you'll see, Minister, that we'll meet here on a number of occasions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to say a few words as a person who has worked in local governments for 20 years and 8 years in parliament, of which, of course, four years during the term of law and justice. And I will say that I will vote in favour of this bill, Minister, but not because I am convinced of this law, just because I am convinced of the idea. And if you don't have what you like, you like what you have. Apparently, you can't do better than that, so it's okay, at least this kind of support for local governments. Because what the Minister said... We asked, especially me and Senator Klein, why the basis is not the 2010 Act, a comprehensive approach to solving an important problem. Everyone, both on the left, on the right and in the middle of the political scene, is in favour of this, this is a move in the right direction. It's just that instead of solving problems strategically... Even if there is no money to make a comprehensive solution to the problem, it is possible to implement that's part of it, but then we have a strategy. And the country... A good bill, as the Minister said, will appear, we're working on it. I'm talking about a comprehensive approach. And now we're streaming money to local governments, and ultimately to carriers. [[Talking in the O.R.]] What I'm saying is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But first, I'd like to ask two senators to keep their voice down because they're bothering me. [[Which ones?]] These two, Mr. Marshal. [[Which ones? Tell me.]] Senator Rulewski as usual. Please, sir... [[Yes. And the other one is which?]] I'm not gonna point the other one out because he rarely does. [[Good. Thank you very much.]] [[Yes...]] And I'd like to say, Minister... [[You served the marshal.]] I'd like to say, Minister, that he was once, I think, in the 1970s... I once read about Emperor Bokassa's fulfillment of various tasks. And that's how he did it. He woke up this morning and said: "Today I will give you a solution to an important problem, namely social exclusion. Because I like this minister, he can be liked, so he gets more, and he gets more, and he gets no, no, he doesn't smell a penny. You create such a system of clientele, customerism, who is a good customer, this lady, instead of creating some added value, which is one in every country, in the form of a strategic approach. I know it's hard for you to defend an idea you don't have... well, in your heart. You could see and feel what you thought: gestures, moves in my judgment. Maybe I'm wrong. They show that you would like to approach the problem in a comprehensive way, which should be addressed in a comprehensive way. That may not be 100% today. cover, but the procedure should be comprehensive. I'm going to quote Senator Kleina here, and I liked it very much, and I'm going to quote him, but I'm going to add a second part to what Senator Klein said: governance isn't about giving away money, Minister, because it's what the emperor mentioned by me did, but it's about effectively fulfilling public needs. Tell me: who will coordinate the resolution of various kinds of problems at the interface of 2 municipalities, districts? Who? Voivodeship, 2, 3 voivodeships will meet and coordinate? I once asked my friend, "How many people do you work for in the culture department?" He said five. I'm asking you, what are they doing? And he's like, "Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Coordinate, coordinate. I'm the one asking, what about the second assignment? He couldn't answer, so he says, "Damn it, I have to ask them what they're actually doing." And you're creating a system like this, a system where the coordinator is going to be in, because it's got to be coordinated somewhere. That money isn't enough for everything, because the money, how quickly I counted, Minister... In my district, it's gonna take about 80 km to the commune. Well, in order to get to Kwidzyn from the farthest towns to Kwidzyn, to the county city, you have to do 40 km, almost 50 km in both directions. So this money doesn't solve all the problems, but I accept it, too. But you can't do that in this way that you seem to, because you have to realize the password. The password's right, but it's the usual. We have a good password: we will build electric cars. The password of good implementation is seen. We build the shipbuilding industry, the password is good, and the keel is rusty, standing, and so we carry on. [[Apartments.]] I won't even mention it again. And that's how you approach it. Well, I'm not talking about the fantastic implementation of education reform. Well, that's the same system of action: we do, and then we look at what's gonna happen. The effect will be very, very weak, Minister, and we would like you to Once again, the second part of the sentence I'll say The most effective way to spend money is to carry out public tasks. Therefore, to conclude, I will also say two words about sources. Minister, what you said, i.e. that from tasks e.g. in the field of environmental protection... I will not deal with all matters, I will only give one example when it comes to sources of funding for environmental protection. Minister, it's not like you're gonna reduce the amount, the money that's meant to improve the air quality, and that there's more influence... The point is that for this task, I am talking about air protection, giving as much money as possible, because we are one of the most poisoned countries in Europe. It's not that when there's a surplus, you take it and give it to the buses. And this is the system of governance. If it is an important task in terms of health and life, such as air protection, then all the money that comes out of it should be spent on achieving this goal, improving air quality, and not reducing expenditure by reducing the amount of money that will come out of it, and directing it to another very important task, namely the exclusion of transport. That's why, in my opinion, I hope I'm wrong, a good assumption will not bring the expected results, because this overall strategy is missing. But once again, if you don't have what you like, you like what you have. Apparently, there's no other way to do it. You do what you do, and I will support it, because that means you can't do it otherwise. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Yes? Good. For the record, Senator Robert Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Grażyna Sztark and Senator Piotr Florek. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative wish to speak or not? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: One sentence, if possible.]] One sentence? Yeah, even two. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! One sentence on the amendments. We will, of course, refer to them in writing at the sitting of the Senate committees. I'm gonna say that this last speech left me with a lot of disgust. Joking about such a serious problem... Ladies and gentlemen, it is not appropriate. It is not right to joke about such a serious problem, it is not right to speak about this problem in an even contemptible way. You really had enough time... [[Voices from the room:]] ...days, years to solve this problem. You had neither the courage nor the idea nor the money. But we will, I assure you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u111	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held today at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Law on the Departments of Government Administration. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1182, and the report of the Commission In print No 1182 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present a report. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, we have a scheduled recess from 12:00 p.m. Let's see how well we're doing. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to fit in in time, finish by 12:00. I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation a report on the Act on amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Act on the Departments of Government Administration. First of all, let me give you an overview of what this law is about. This law amends the provisions of the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Act on the Departments of National Economy in 3 aspects. The first aspect is to change the supervisory authority of the Polish Space Agency. Until now, this body has been the President of the Council of Ministers. Once this law has been passed, it will be the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. Why? This is the case in most European countries. These types of agencies are not supervised by prime ministers, ministers' council presidents. In most cases, they are the right ministers for the economy. There are still substantive reasons for this. The Minister responsible for Economic Affairs is responsible for documentation, for the creation and implementation of space programming documents. The second amendment clarifies and clarifies the tasks of the Polish Space Agency, especially in terms of external actors. It is simply about aid, both material and intangible, for entrepreneurs, who in the field of space economy, let's call it space exploration. The third amendment is to modify the requirements for candidates for the position of President, Vice-President or Vice-Presidents and Directors of the Agency's field branches. Some of these requirements are transferred from the Statute, i.e. the status of statutory provisions, and some are new, amended compared to the old text. In addition, there are specific requirements for staff employed in the Agency. The very meeting of the two joint committees took place yesterday. After the presentation by the Minister's representative of the issue of the law, the discussion began. It was attended by the following senators: Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Wojciech Piech and my humble person. The legislator presented 5 proposals for amendments to the Act, 4 of which These are legislative-ordering comments. In the list you have in the document, in print No 1182 A, these are amendments from the second to the fifth. They were, practically speaking, voted unanimously. The amendment was also tabled by Senator Jerzy Wczyła. It concerned the deletion of articles from the text of the Act. 4, which speaks about the possibility, or actually the obligation to terminate employment relations with agency staff within 3 months of the date of entry into force of the Act. This amendment has not been accepted by the gathered senators. The 3:10 vote was rejected. I also made an amendment. In the set of amendments this is amendment No. 1, which transfers the seat of the agencies from the city of Gdansk to the capital city of Warsaw. This amendment was accepted by the senators after a long discussion, but not unanimously. It triggered a discussion. By a vote of 7:5 a.m., the Senator abstained from voting. It was accepted. So much for issues related to the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. Questions... No, no, I'm sorry. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, to present a proposal for a minority of committees. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Czerwiński has already talked about a minority request. He's talking about art. 4 of the proposed law, which introduces a mechanism to put out labour relations. This mechanism is that the employer is entitled to propose new working conditions within 3 months of the publication of the Act. Those who do not make any proposal will automatically cease to be agency employees. In this way, the workers concerned will not receive any administrative decision that they cease to be workers. The Legislature Bureau pointed out that they would have nothing to go to court with and not to appeal against. The Ministry's representative said that this procedure is being introduced because the nature of the agency's work is changing. Well, High Senate, this law does not change much as an agency's work, it generally introduces support mechanisms for those tasks that the agency is to perform, among others. the de minimis principle in the context of the financing of these tasks. This agency will continue to be an agency which is connected with Poland's accession to the European Space Agency and will continue to pursue the objectives which it has achieved so far. Therefore, I find no justification for introducing the principle of termination of employment relationships, wholesale dismissal of workers, changing the terms and conditions of employment, which gives such great rights to the employer. These doubts that we have, also have the Legislative Office, which pointed out that such powers give employers discretion, eliminate any criteria... This law does not introduce any criteria according to which a worker can be reorganized, changed or released. Like I said, there's no act of dismissal at all if the employee doesn't get a new proposal, he won't be an employee. That violates the employee's right to appeal to the court. I already told you, he doesn't get any administrative documents on this case. Ladies and gentlemen, the mechanism introduced by this law in this small establishment employing about 60 employees, was already introduced by the Senate in 2017, when the National Tax Administration was established, when the National Agricultural Support Centre was established and in 2018 when the State Protection Service was established. Since then, several hundred people thus released or unemployed win court proceedings in Polish courts. Okay. 20 people I'm following it closely because that's what I do. Wins... wins... wins... There are cassation decisions in the Supreme Administrative Court. I don't understand why the Senate is pushing, taking a path that, as you can see, is against the law. There is a ruling by the Constitutional Court of 2013, which states that such termination of employment relations is unconstitutional. Therefore, the introduction of this provision into this law disqualifies this law in my opinion. It is not possible to support a law which is already illegal With a constitution, with employee rights. In my opinion, since it is the same as the Minister said that the changes specific to the number of employees and the tasks to be carried out are not foreseen, it is all the more justified to introduce such radical rules on workers' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. Now the senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator wants to ask you a question like that. There you go, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u116	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Czerwinski. Last night, social media reported that in connection with the amendment of the Senators of PiS the seat of the space agency, which was to be in Gdańsk, will be moved to Warsaw. [[Voice from the room: To Wrocław.]] We do not yet know what decisions will be made in the Senate vote, but I would like to ask the senator why such an amendment was tabled, especially since the Law and Justice announced in their electoral programme the decentralisation of important offices... [[It never foretold, never, never...]] Law and Justice... [[But Gowin talked about it.]] [[But it didn't say...]] Sorry, don't bother me, Mr. Marshal. [[But the senator isn't telling the truth. I...]] Law and Justice... [[...I know the program very well because I wrote it, and I know there's no record in it that there's never been any such promise.]] Law and Justice Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. [[Okay, okay.]] I'm gonna finish this, and you're gonna straighten it out. [[I'm sorry.]] Law and Justice announced decentralisation in the area of central offices, which may even be right, and I think it's worth considering at times. Members, among others. Mr Horała, they assured that the Agency's seat would be in Gdansk. And on the last line, the moment we process it, suddenly there's an amendment that completely changes the shape of this bill. I'm asking you to explain to the senator because I believe you have tabled this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u117	Thank you very much. [[Yeah, yeah...]] Senator Rulewski and Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u118	Was it discussed during the committee meeting that this staff change, as you say, a change according to European standards... Well, there's no notabene. I'm surprised it came out of your mouth. Whether this change is related to resignation, another resignation in the Polish Space Agency and how will it affect human stability, even a lean, space program of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u119	And Mr. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u120	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I, of course, witnessed and participated in the discussion during the joint committee meeting. But I have a question about the course of the committee's work and the subject of the amendment, which in fact boils down to the transfer of the seat of the agency from Gdańsk to Warsaw. I would like to ask the senator whether he has a similar impression from the meeting of this committee that the representative of the Legislative Office had comments, which I also later raised during my speech, that your amendment goes beyond the scope of the submission that it is simply incompatible with the principles of correct legislation, because there was no seat issue in the submission, this issue was dealt with at the level of Parliamentary work. Was this issue addressed? If so, what were the voices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u121	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u122	First of all, I would like to make a mistake with Senator Zdrojewska. Well, it may not be about decentralisation, but about even development. That's what we have on our show, of course. Equal development is not to discriminate against any areas in the Republic of Poland, for example. transport, accessibility, etc. Previous law, among others. has been involved in this aspect of sustainable development. If I have to answer this question honestly, it is necessary to say clearly... and also to answer Senator Rybicki's question, because it was also mentioned in the question, it was about some legislative reservations. Leaving the seat of the agency in Gdansk, because at the moment she is obviously in Gdansk, has advantages and disadvantages. It is simply a matter of deciding what is more, of course, by voting. First thing in history. The mother law of 2014 on the Polish Space Agency, the mother law, i.e. the one we are updating, assumed at the beginning that the agency's seat was to be in Warsaw. During the work this headquarters was still in Warsaw, and it was fired, it was moved from Warsaw to Gdańsk at the last stage, just in the Senate after a very turbulent discussion; I hope that now this discussion will be less turbulent. So what you've been accusing the legislator of this amendment has just happened... The original sin was already at the stage of voting on the mother's bill. [[No, it was a new bill then, and it could have been done in the Senate.]] Great, great, but the matter was different, there was another place, and here was another place... [[No, no.]] Good. As far as this law is concerned, in the original draft of this law, I am talking about the amending act, which is the amendment that we are now dealing with. There was also a proposal to move the seat to Warsaw, and there was also a proposal. So when it comes to legislative reservations, I share them in part, but as I say, when you know history, they become less categoric and you could explain these reservations. And now I'm going to address the substantive issues. Indeed, at the moment the headquarters is in Gdansk, but the facts are that most of the employees work in the Warsaw branch, more than 60%, practically speaking. In other words, the headquarters are in Gdansk, there are 2 branches, one in Rzeszów, the other in Warsaw, and this Warsaw branch has about 2/3 of the employees of both others, namely the headquarters and the Rzeszów branch. This is the reality of the situation. So something is going on that this activity is still being transferred to Warsaw. The question is, what... Well, the position of Warsaw is this Neither Gdansk, Wroclaw, nor any other city can beat it. It's the centre, the capital of Poland. In the case of this agency very much activity these are contacts with the Ministry, with external entities, and this can be implemented efficiently in Warsaw. One more question. There's also a military pawn in this agency. And the military pawn in its entirety is in Warsaw, it is not in one or the other branch. The question is: what, then, is the argument in favour of leaving it in Gdansk? Well, some kind of inertia, that's what I'd call it, because this place is already in Gdansk. He's actually in Gdansk. He is indeed in Gdansk and perhaps Gdansk would not want to lose this seat. And I'm not surprised at the lobbying that's going on right now. My person was also concerned with these lobbying activities and the fact that you are trying to leave the old premises. Ladies and gentlemen, this is for decision. We're gonna vote on it. As far as the argument is concerned, I have tried to be honest with you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's in the discussion...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u123	This will be in the discussion, yes... I've got... No more questions, right? [[I didn't get the answer.]] But we were supposed to have an announced break now, ladies and gentlemen. And as announced, I am declaring a recess until 13.10. Besides, we have an announcement, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u124	High Senate, a joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure on the consideration of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Public Service Bus Development Fund will take place today, 24 May, at 12.45 p.m. in room 182. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u125	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 1:10 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 07 to 13 minutes 10]] I'm reopening the session. High Izbo, as previously announced, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and some other laws. and consider this item as the fourth item of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act... [[Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal, formal motion!]] Please. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to your suggestion, I repeat... [[Yes, but it was about point one, not point two... but please... because there's no report on the other.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No... I understand that the matter of this point has been resolved, i.e. The point you presented... Yes? [[Come on, come on, come ……]] And I'm going back to your suggestion to... [[The suggestion was that point one...]] This point, which I requested at the beginning of the meeting, is to supplement the agenda of the meeting with a call for Kneset. Mr. Marshal asked me to clarify his motion. So I'm declaring that I'm repeating the motion in the form that I carried out... I'm not gonna give you the print number because it's up to you, which is your memory to give the print a number. I would also like to say, Mr. Marshal... I'm not gonna reveal any other conversations that have been made about this, I just want to express my will: I want to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I wish you well, and I don't want Senator Korwin-Mikke or anyone else sitting in your shoes in a few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you for being kind and caring for me. Thank you very much. That's very nice. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] It's the first time, so... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...thank you very much. Thank you very much. Senator, I regret to deny you this vote because we cannot vote on the issue of introducing a point, extending the agenda to a point to which there is no printing. Well, there's no printing here. I can only inform you. And I'm going to do it publicly that I've sent this proposal to a number of institutions for consultation and I'm waiting for answers from these institutions. When they do, then I'll invite you and we'll talk about this motion for a resolution or a resolution by the senator. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Law on the Departments of Government Administration. A report was presented to the committee before the session was interrupted and the rapporteur's senators answered the questions. Has this series of questions been exhausted? Yeah, I get it. Yes? Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Marcin Ociepa. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marcin Ociepa: No.]] No. Are there any questions for the Minister? There's one question. Please, Minister, in that case... [[Senator Rulewski still has questions.]] That's gonna be two questions. Minister, you're very welcome to the podium. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And I would like to remind you that the senators can now report from a place that lasts no more than a minute to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. And Senator Rybicki is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u128	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister about the position of the government against the amendments tabled during yesterday's joint committee work by Senator Czerwiński, which boils down to the transfer of the seat of the agency from Gdansk to Warsaw. What is this position? Didn't you take a position like you yesterday... because there was no clear position on your part, or what Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz presents? A week ago, during a press conference in Gdansk, she said that it was not planned to be transferred by the Ministry of the seat of the Polish Space Agency from Gdansk to Warsaw, she confirmed it yesterday in an interview, saying that today she would appeal to the Senators of Law and Justice, so that this amendment would not be accepted. What is the position of the government regarding the transfer of the seat of the agency from Gdansk to Warsaw? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u129	Thank you very much, Senator. The second question you ask is Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u130	Minister, are these changes, undoubtedly of a nature, I would say administrative, a question of subordinateness, even a change of seat, not linked to another change in the chair of President Brona, who served only for a year? Does that also mean undermining the space program he created? Does this also mean that there is a lobby in the government, there are some duels that create an image of Polish miseration when it comes to space exploration? Because there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u131	Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you. Please, Minister, two questions, two answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! But I think that the bill introduces very important changes, not only cosmetic changes, but here I refer to the sentence that Senator Rulewski said. Because we organize and clarify the scope of tasks of the Polish Space Agency... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Minister. I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...we're putting in place business support mechanisms. This is the clou of this bill. We would very much like to strengthen the ambitions of Polish small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to reach for the resources of the European Space Agency, but not only those that are at the disposal of the European Union, and to this end we are making a lot of changes. The question was about headquarters. I, Mr. Senator, could not answer that question yesterday because I was not at the committee meeting. Minister Marek Nieżak was present. Our position is clearly positive for leaving the seat of the Polish Space Agency in Gdańsk. From my perspective, however, the issue of headquarters is of a nature, sorry, secondary. The bill makes a lot of major changes. Today, as has already been said in the meeting room of the High Chamber, most of the employees of the Polish Space Agency have been working in Warsaw, but since the presentation of the bill, which assumed a change, the transfer of this seat to Warsaw, until we are presently in Warsaw, and until the adoption of the parliamentary amendment, which appeared in the course of parliamentary work, we have still held many meetings, discussions and consultations. I would like to thank all your parliamentarians from Pomerania, led by Mr Marcin Horała, Mr Śniadek, the local government, and the world of science, which is very important, which presented an ambitious plan to exploit the potential of the Polish Space Agency in Gdańsk. We simply listen to these arguments and therefore strongly support the leaving of this seat in Gdansk, although of course it is up to the senators to decide. With regard to the change to the position of President, it has nothing to do with the bill, Mr Senator, because the competition has been drawn up on the basis of the provisions of the current Act, so these changes which we are introducing in this Act do not in any way affect the recruitment of the new President. The competition has been announced and will be decided on the basis of the current legislation, which is before the adoption, I hope, by the High House of this law. Mr Bron's resignation is based on his own decision, which he specifically and publicly justified. It is motivated by the desire to return to the private sector and should be respected. I will add that absolutely, in no way the implementation of the Polish space program is threatened, on the contrary, thanks to the mechanisms that this law introduces, we will be able to introduce it with greater effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jan Rulewski, question two.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u134	That's the last of it. [[Thank you very much.]] Minister, there are troops here, and this Act 2 lists them. Is it possible to create a Bydgoszcz nobody here? A branch in Toruń, where there is an UMK, an observatory, a large staff, even there are... [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u135	Thank you very much. [[Don't make a political comment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The senator's talking about two field units... [[Yes.]] ...Polish Space Agency. Yes, they currently operate in Warsaw and Rzeszów. [[Yes, in Rzeszow.]] There are no plans yet, but of course I wouldn't rule that out. Let's wait for the election to be decided for the president of the Polish Space Agency. If the scientific community of Torun or any other community will be able to prepare a project that will make such an undertaking rational, then we will not only not mind. On the contrary: we support the ambitions of Polish cities and regions to develop their socio-scientific and economic functions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marcin Ociepa: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Yesterday, the combined committees, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on National Defence, discussed the law on the Polish Space Agency, very interesting and in many places acceptable, increasing the competences and interests of the agency, an important agency that already has its achievements and many of us refer to its action with acceptance and recognition. However, during the committee's work, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński tabled an amendment to the bill, which received acceptance of the majority of the joint committees, transferring the seat of the Polish Space Agency from Gdansk to Warsaw. This amendment was already challenged at the committee itself by the legislator, who pointed out that, what is very important, this amendment goes beyond the scope of the law. There's nothing in the bill, in the submission that came to your marshal's office about changing headquarters. So it is right for the legislator to point out a certain error, a flaw, in terms of the scope of the procedure, which conflicts with the principle of correct legislation. However, the amendment was accepted, accepted by the majority of the joint committees, and that is why we need to deal with this problem today. The case is brought not only for formal reasons, concerning correct legislation, but also for substantive reasons. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz said a few important sentences during her visit to Gdansk, Tri-City, in Pomerania, a week ago. I'll just quote two. I quote: "How to make a country with a hydrocephalode and this hydrocephalode is to place 87% Offices in Warsaw... to try to defeat this hydrocephalus? How can some of the central functions be transferred to other important administrative centres? She added that the validity of such a transfer shows experiences, among others. Great Britain, the Czech Republic, Estonia and many other countries. I agree with that argument. I believe that the policy of decentralising the various important functions of the state, transferring them to offices that operate outside the capital is an important, good idea. After all, Senator Kazimierz Klein, who repeatedly during the work of the Senate, but also in many other places formulated the view, calling it a policy of deagglomeration of public administration... It is a very interesting point of view, and it is used in many developed European countries to locate central offices, central institutions outside the political center, outside the capitals. I urge the High House, I urge the Senators, States of Law and Justice to vote against the amendment transferring the seat of the agency from Gdansk to Warsaw, also because around the agency in Gdansk has already grown an environment and scientific, and business, has been established an inter-university faculty of space and satellite technologies, which combines the efforts of the Gdańsk University of Technology, the Gdynia Maritime University and the Gdynia Naval Academy, as well as the largest university, the Gdańsk University. I would also like the inhabitants of the Tri-City and Pomerania not to have the impression that they are increasingly affected: that because of political sympathies, different from those currently in power, the inhabitants of Pomerania, especially the Tri-City, are being punished and discriminated against by the current authority. Very alive in memory is the decision to take Lotus by the Pistons of Orlen. The withdrawal or reduction of grants to the European Solidarity Centre is in line with this logic of thinking. Failure to build part of the S6 expressway does not exist despite the signature of the letter of intent of the decision to build the Red Road in Gdynia, so important for the development of the maritime economy, for plans to expand the port in Gdynia, or finally the last legislative plans to take over the Westerplatte area All this, including this amendment by Senator Czerwiński, is part of such an image that Pomerania is discriminated against by the current political team. I call on the High Senate to vote on this amendment today and you will accept all the arguments that arise in the debate. After all, the voice of the representative of the government, who has a unified opinion on this matter, is very important here. There's one more important argument to work on this bill. This is a minority request that we tabled at yesterday's committee meeting to remove the article from the law. 4. I will also refer to the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, which believes that the purpose of the bill, the interesting purpose of which is to increase the agency's competence, to extend its interests and activities, is not a sufficient reason... This is the application of a disproportionate mechanism which may accompany the liquidation of an undertaking or any complete transformation. The extension of the Agency's powers cannot be an explanation to apply a provision which results in the loss of employment by all employees by virtue of the Act. It's most likely That's how it can be interpreted. A breach of the constitutional principle of proportionality, the adequacy of the law. And for that reason, I'm about to file a motion to reject the entire bill. I know that this proposal will not receive a majority, but I will ask you again to vote in favour of leaving the seat of the Polish Space Agency in Gdansk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The amendment of the Act on the Polish Space Agency in its essence is justified. Introduces solutions to increase its capacity to carry out the tasks to which R &amp; D has been set up, innovation, participation in economic missions, fairs and other events By introducing public aid instruments, e.g. de minimis, to carry out these tasks. It also directs its activity towards small, small enterprises. Unfortunately, on the occasion, it was decided to do a few other things, which were very loosely It is or is not related to the objectives of this amendment. One of these is the extensive change of location, the location of the Agency's seat. Today there are signals that this bad idea to take away the Polish Space Agency from Gdansk will not find support from the Senate. That's good, because the idea of placing offices of various research, administrative, cultural institutions outside Warsaw makes a profound sense. Although the Senators of Law and Justice claim that they do not have the decentralisation of such institutions in their programme, they say they support actions for sustainable development. Because decentralisation is not an end in itself, it is also intended to serve a purpose. This is the objective of achieving even development. You can compare this to the Cohesion Fund, which Poland is the largest beneficiary in Europe. Why the European Union so generously Because in previous history, it is over EUR 110 billion, it has given Poland, it has given us such huge resources? In order for Europe to develop evenly so that the outermost areas, for historical reasons or because of their location outside the central areas that are in a more difficult situation, can develop and catch up more quickly with the best developed areas. That is why I am pleased that this one case is likely to find its positive finale and today we will understand centralisation as a task to promote even development. And in this context there will be no attempts to transfer institutions such as the Polish Space Agency to Warsaw, because it is more convenient and better there. Another thing that he's trying to deal with by the way is the principle of putting out working relationships. High Senate, this principle has its outstanding negative achievements in the current parliamentary term, including the Senate. Let me remind you that the method of putting out the employment relationship is that employees in this case of the Polish Space Agency within 3 months of the entry into force of this law will get either job proposals - under unknown conditions, which positions are not known Either they don't get this job proposal. And if they don't get a job offer, they'll automatically stop being employees. This procedure was applied in 2017 and 2018 in the context of the creation of the National Tax Administration and the National Agricultural Support Centre. This involved tens of thousands of people, and about 1,000 people were directly affected. But at least that's when a new creation was created, which carried out new tasks. The Polish Space Agency practically continues what it has been doing so far, so there is no reason, even for such an image, to introduce such drastic solutions. I would like to remind you that this solution from 2017 resulted in hundreds of court trials, hundreds of court trials in which the Polish state If we call this the one who introduced this bill, it loses. He loses with the rights of employees, and it's very common; in a few cases it's different. It is not enough if, in these proceedings, the argument of the courts does not address the state structures, mainly the National Tax Administration, it also loses in appeals. The Supreme Administrative Court also grants the right to workers being fired in this way. An employee, if he's to be fired, has the right to demand a decision on his release, gets it in his hand. It's about knowing he was fired, and he had a document with which he could appeal to a court or another institution. High Senate, as long as we were able to pretend that we had such great confidence in ministers in 2017, we trusted them that they had such good will, such great and good knowledge of the law, and that is why they put in place such a mechanism, and in 2019 we can no longer have that trust. We have 2 years of experience, 2 years of court trials in which this law on termination of employment relationships loses. And now we want to introduce this solution in this bill for 60 employees? What testimony does he give to the president of this agency, whether present or future, when a gate is created at the start so that he does not have to stand before an employee and tell him there is no place to work for you, just leaving him without a document and without a job? The Agency will continue to do what it does, as I said at the outset, it will continue to be a member of Poland and a partner of the European Space Agency. Since this applies to an institution linked to the European system, it is appropriate, High Senate, that we stick to European rules in European structures. Art. 4 of this law is unacceptable because it does not maintain European standards. Therefore, I apply for the deletion of Article. 4 of the Act, and at the same time the proposal to delete the legally compromised principle of termination of employment relations. Unlike Senator Sławomir Rybicki, who does not believe that his motion to reject this law becomes a fact, I believe that the senators will vote in favour of deleting the article. 4. He doesn't do anything, he's not needed at all, and he gives the president of the agency a luxury of complete self-reliantness in acting and treating his employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u141	Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're debating the Space Agency Act, and these things seem very distant and probably incomprehensible to many, and I don't feel competent in space matters either, so I'm not going to speak on these matters. I would like to comment on the matter concerning the seat of the agency, and more specifically the change of the seat. It seems that the matter has already been dealt with positively, that the Minister's position closes this discussion, which I am very pleased about. However, there was indeed a moment, not even a moment, but rather a longer time, that various kinds of efforts were made to move the agency's headquarters to Warsaw. Unfortunately, it was a practice, you could say... The attempt to transfer the seat of the agency to Warsaw has been properly undertaken since the beginning of its creation. To be honest, I was already afraid when I realized that there would be a branch of the agency in Warsaw, that every president of this agency would treat its headquarters as a de facto branch or temporary institution. That's why we've taken this whole deagglomeration program into account... This does not only apply to the agency, because, as I say, in every case, in which we, as Senate, make such an attempt that the headquarters of the central authority or office will be located outside Warsaw, we say this: we cannot introduce the principle that these offices will have their offices in Warsaw. Well, then I'm afraid This is due to a mentality of people Everyone will want to make such a move so that the branch, this capital, Warsaw branch, is de facto the seat of the authorities of the organization. I want to remind you in this room. You know this very well, at least most of you know, the Senators of Law and Justice, the Civic Platform, that actually all this movement connected with the deagglomeration of public administration, so the location of the headquarters of public administration outside Warsaw began in the Senate. I will tell you immeasurably that I started talking about this already during the time of the AWS government, at the moment when we undertook such a large reform of the regional government, creating large regional local governments. I was talking about the need to take another step, not so much to move, because I knew that such an operation would never work, so that any new administration would If this is the case or if there is a deep reorganization of the administration, try to locate outside Warsaw. This is basically a way to strengthen the position of various non-Warsaw centers, secondly, to relieve Warsaw from this administrative pier. At first, all of them on my side and on the opposite side, no matter where and who was in charge at the time. They smiled and even laughed at the idea, said: this is some senseless idea. They didn't quite understand him. But step by step we started here, in the Senate, discussing this issue, organizing conferences, people began to think a little differently, in the Platform and in the PiS, they began to think that it was possible. We've never called it decentralisation, because it's not actually decentralisation, that word can't even be used for this idea. That's why we coined this idea that it would be a deagglomeration of public administration. Because further, these offices are central offices, they are to be central offices, they are to be offices which are in the central administration structure, but may have their headquarters in various cities in Poland. The headquarters of the space agency was our first success. Then there were others, little ones, smaller ones, but that worked, too. And in the days of your reign, law and justice, there was an attempt. - Remember? - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The Polish-Hungarian Institute is located in Pułtusk... [[Voice from the hall: in Tarnów.]] Yeah, in Tarnów. Well, there was this attempt, unfortunately failed, because in your environment there were, as in other environments, people who said that everything had to be in Warsaw. But I encourage you to make these attempts because it is worth it. Of course, there are examples from different countries, we see that. Well, I'm not talking about the German neighbours or the Czechs mentioned by Senator Rybicki or other countries, we showed it very much. But as the European Union creates new administrations, new offices, they are located in different EU countries, also in Warsaw, thanks to which we have been endowed with one of such EU-wide offices, and also different other countries similarly. So it seems to me, I'm pretty sure it can be done. This idea of ours, the Senate, I'll even say that this part of the Platform Senate, you took over Prime Minister Gowin and started filming this idea. I was glad right away, I said: oh, see, it will work, because also on the side of the current rulers the idea is beginning to ripen and its realization is real. But unfortunately, of course, it all got blurry, and then everything fell apart, and it's impossible at all. Prime Minister Gowin's mistake was that he thought he would be able to move existing offices. It's not real, is it? It's hard to imagine now the Ministry of Finance with thousands of its officials moving to some smaller city, it's hard to do. But new offices or deeply reorganized ones can be created in other cities. That is what I will always seek, and I encourage everyone to introduce it. This attempt forbids the agency from Gdansk but it is not about Gdansk, because it could have been in any other city. It was actually taken all the time. Because as this Gdansk headquarters was smaller than the Warsaw branch, various combinations were made in this case. During the debate on the budget every year I asked about the situation of the Polish Space Agency in Gdansk... in general the Polish Space Agency and asked if the issue of the building, the seat of the agency, etc. was stabilized. Well, it was usually a trick question on my part, because I knew there were these treatments. The minister said: well, we're already close to moving this agency, so there's nothing to do. Every time I knew there was an attempt to reverse this action. I think fortunately... This attempt at the committee meeting yesterday was also proof of this. I hope this operation will fail, that it will rather be a warning that you cannot make such movements, and that on the next occasion, when some new administrations will be created or I'm gonna say it again. They will be profoundly changed, and they will try to take action to make sure that their headquarters are located in other smaller towns. They don't have to be in metropolitan centres at all. We then made this decision that it would be Gdansk, because we knew that it would be difficult for the agency's headquarters to be in a smaller facility. But I think that the administration can even be in a city the size of Konin: 2 hours away from Warsaw, perfect communication, there can be a central office there. And there's nothing wrong with that. Because if we as Senate, senators, MEPs and ministers tell people and urge them to do this: you can work remotely, you can work on a computer like this, then why can't a central official also work remotely? Today there are technical possibilities that such an office can also be in a smaller facility, and I hope that this will happen in the long term. This will be for the benefit of Warsaw and for the benefit of Poland as a whole. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u143	Thank you. Now Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Being a bit in a light mood, I would like to say, especially with regard to people who strongly emphasize national content in their speeches, even in some contrast or conflict with the European Union: the capital of Polish astronomy, astrophysics, what is more, space should be what marks Poland's place, namely Toruń, or Copernicus, for hundreds of years. Mr. Senator Czerwiński, I would like you, in view of the various attempts to discuss where there is a place where you have resigned from your amendment and confirmed that Copernicus is a great Polish scholar, he is indeed the author of the Copenhagen Revolution. And I would like to say this: sometimes history and various events, especially material events, my loved ones, decide what is called e.g. in dendrite metallurgy. As you know, steel is generally made up of coal, and it is formed by melting coal, iron ore, melting fluxes, of course, under the influence of energy, but what network of formations, which crystal, is determined by dendrite. There are, of course, dendrites good and bad in the form of impurities. In my opinion − Minister, please don't be offended, because I happen to be a friend of your department, especially Minister Emilewicz, with great sympathy I look - the dendrite you put in this bill proves the miserary of our discussion. I think there was one in the Seym, too, because when I asked you why we change the president of the agency every year, which is a serious person who, after all, is also a member of the European space research institution, you said: Excuse me, but you don't appoint a CEO for a year. This is an example of someone's irresponsibleness. You can't just throw it away. You can't take it lightly. Mr. President, Prof. Bron − elected after some, I apologize, without insulting, temporary colonel or general − I no longer remember − however, he had some achievements called either the space programme by 2021 or the space strategy by 2030. And now, the miseries is that, as you said, Minister, the tasks will be changed - but this is what I did not read in this bill. You didn't tell the senator either... not the senator, but the minister didn't talk about whether this new strategy would be changed or not. But let's be honest: she is, she's in a deep squat. The fact that we belong to the European Space Agency does not indicate that we have already dealt with the problem of space exploration, which is rapidly developing. There has been a revolution, not in Europe − sorry − but in the United States, and space research, which was only a state action, have now entered a phase of private action. At least three U.S. agencies were created - I'm shortening this statement because it's 10 minutes, right? − which focus on manned space exploration. And it turns out that they're all private, because the United States government... the technology has already come to the conclusion that these are very profitable activities. Unfortunately, despite the contribution that no one is talking about here, Poland will not participate directly in these studies, because the alliance with the United States in these matters is on the side, although these are also research... To give an example: we do not have maps of the eastern territories authorized by anyone, we do not have such photographs from space, but there are not many military forces and allies there. It would be good if we had our own maps. It's just an example. So sudden growth isn't conducive to... Instead, we have a discussion where this headquarters, although it is true that Paris is based in Europe, but the main tasks are carried out in many European Union centres - in a village near Rome, in Darmstadt, Germany, Spain - and not necessarily associated with the capital. Hence, it is not by chance that my attention to potential, which lies among others. in Toruń. And now, returning to... 41 years have passed since Poland entered space thanks to Polish-Soviet friendship, i.e. thanks to the political act. Let us not hide that Hermaszewski's flight brought Polish aviation medicine big and certain results. Today the pilot F-16 or even this MiG-29 is almost like a cosmonaut .. years.. Under such conditions, that... space medicine is needed to advance, and therefore manned flights are also needed. But also the need to detect disasters, and to act for agriculture, Poland has a lot of potential here. And the weather threats that we are now experiencing... All this requires Poland to press this gas hard, this acceleration pedal in the field of space exploration. Instead, we have here, unfortunately, a discussion that Mr. Squash stole from me, even stole from me, that thread that we're throwing out workers. Because that's what you should call the effect of this law, which is going to be mirroring this potential, modestly speaking, 60 employees. The Minister didn't answer that. Nor did he say how many will be included in this illustration. All of them or some of them staying? What are they gonna be like? You know, questions like that... Or maybe you'll have to create this seat, for example. In Green Mountain, where is the well-developed polytechnic? And so on, and so on... The fact is, Minister, that the government has given us such a dendrite harmful to space exploration in Poland, for their technology, for their development. This strategy assumes that in 2030 we will have... we should have a 3-percent turnover market, i.e. profits. And a word at the end. There may not be so many young people among us, but there are many young people outside this room. It's true that they're less interested in politics, no matter which side, but they're definitely interested in space research. It is worth to introduce these young people, to present a new stage of Polish sovereignty of space exploration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u145	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to speak very briefly. I remember when we passed this bill and when Senator Wittbrodt tabled an amendment to make the agency's seat in Gdansk. I must say that I listened attentively to the arguments put forward here by Senator Czerwinski. In fact, my predecessors did not present counter-arguments in the discussion, moving only on the pros and cons level. Of course, I would not like to enter into this discussion, in these arguments, but in space technologies, I can say that I know a little bit about this, especially in the context of the interaction of these technologies with computer science. In Digital, we collect and analyze satellite data for meteorology and security. Also software related to satellites or rockets... But that's not what I wanted to talk about. Senator Kleina's longer consideration of, let's say, the praise of the agglomeration has mobilized me to speak; this is what the senator has brought here. Well, I have to say that I have been giving this author's lecture on testing the reliability of large digital systems for years. One of the most important elements of research and testing of these large digital systems is the division of structures into macroblocks, which makes these test strings and responses shorter. Then you can do it faster, it's even more effective. But for that to make sense, certain assumptions must be met. One of them is that each of the separate macroblocks has some of its own functionality. If there isn't, then it's not good. Second thing. This may be the case, that after the division of such a large system into macroblocks, the network of links between these small units is more complicated than before the division. That's why you have to have such a broader idea here. Yeah, the steering theory's kind of on it. Stability and control, steering, observation... Therefore, I would be far from enthusiastic about such little professional considerations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u147	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u148	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I wasn't going to speak, but Senator Wind provoked my speech, a little post script. There were not many arguments of a substantive or scientific nature in our speeches, they were emotional in nature, maybe too much, so I will provide some such arguments which I think will support leaving the seat of the Polish Space Agency in Gdansk. I will appeal to Professor Mirosława Ostrowska's statement from the Institute of Oceanology of the Polish Academy of Sciences: At the moment, there is no better and more effective tool for exploring and observing changes in the functioning of the seas and oceans than satellite techniques. Satellite techniques allow us to gather observations simultaneously from the entire area. It's an irreplaceable tool. Only after we started using satellites to explore the oceans could we say anything about the currents of the sea and how they affect our climate, as well as the global processes that are happening there. The professor recalled that the Institute of Oceanology of the Polish Academy of Sciences operating in Pomerania Its headquarters are located in Sopot. It was the leader of a project involving a number of universities and institutions engaged in marine and ocean research. At the moment, however, the SatBaltic System is being launched, which, on the basis of satellite techniques, can describe a whole range of environmental parameters of the entire Baltic Sea area. It's a tool that can be used in the economy, in the administration, not just in science. It's a tool for the future. This emphasizes Prof. Ostrowska in the discussion on the purpose of leaving the seat of the Polish Space Agency in Gdańsk. And one more argument which appeared and in the discussion at the committee meeting, and today when asking questions that this is a paradox, that the head office of the institution, which is based in Gdańsk, employs fewer people than the Warsaw branch. Well, when examining the location of central offices or important central institutions outside the capital, we need to pay attention to this and consider it obvious in our deliberations. Well, an example of Germany, which has placed many central institutions outside the capital or outside the main political center in Berlin... e.g. The crime scene is in Wiesbaden. Well, it's hard to imagine that this headquarters in Wiesbaden has more people working criminal police than in Berlin or in larger German cities. This is not a sufficient argument that can be relied on when trying to transfer the seat of the agency to Warsaw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u149	Thank you. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd just like to say a few words, but to remind you... Because I had the pleasure and the honor of chairing the Legislative Committee that adopted this bill. And these arguments about decentralisation, about the fact that European standards are of this kind, so as not to concentrate all the chief government bodies in one place, with us in Warsaw... It was said that this was very right and that this trend should expand. That was the assumption, that was the discussion, that was the ratio legis of the law adopted. I don't think anything's changed, on the contrary. I have to tell you something from my own experience. The Polish Academy of Sciences in Gdansk was founded on the initiative of Prof. Wittbrodt, the Commission for Space Sciences. I have the honour to be a member of this committee, which is very active, which organises very important conferences, scientific conferences. So Gdansk became a certain centre, because these scientific conferences, which are organized mainly at the Gdansk University of Technology, are currently supporting the agency's activities. This space activity is also the subject of the parliamentary group's work in our parliament. She's not very active. I'm a member. But it was also a great satisfaction that this agency's headquarters are in Gdansk. Not to mention what the Minister just said, that the government's position is not to change this place, because it is the most appropriate one. That's why... Because, like I just said, it's not just a matter of headquarters. It is also a matter of other organisations that are starting to work and supporting around this centre. After all, they are also interested entrepreneurs, who not only create the climate, but also take concrete actions related to this area of activity. I therefore believe that there should be absolutely no serious transfer of this seat. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u151	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u152	Mr. Marshal, just one sentence about Senator Wind's words, literally one sentence. If we were to follow this theory and the results of the research that Senator Wind is conducting, it would only mean that everything should be centralised, dominated and embedded in Warsaw, but it might turn out in a moment that Warsaw is too small, i.e. in Berlin and later in New York, etc. Well, that's the way to nowhere. However, Poland is not only Warsaw, Europe is not just Berlin, and the world is not just New York. [[Europe is Brussels.]] Oh, Brussels even.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u153	Thank you, Senator. [[I volunteered.]] Senator Wind now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, in principle, I do not know whether in ad vocem mode or as the next vote in the discussion. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, Senator Klein didn't understand my reasoning at all, because, Senator, large systems are divided into macroblocks and it's a very effective working method, and my statement was that not every division is effective and meaningful. That's all I wanted to say. And if I'm understood now, then I'm glad if I'm not, then maybe I could still... Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u155	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to supplement this section on the transfer of headquarters, which here has become the main topic discussed in connection with this law... Ladies and gentlemen, this law primarily changes the way the agency operates. The space agency will be here now. At least that's how I understand it. Maybe the Minister can get me out of the way. More guided towards external actors, primarily to help those who want to enter the space market at all, start-ups, those who start their space career, so I would call it. And that is why to these arguments, which I have already mentioned earlier, in favour of the fact that the seat should return to Warsaw, one more, but forward-looking, please, countries, should be there, where there are most such entities, and such entities are mostly in Warsaw and the area. It's just a fact, and you don't argue with facts. If you don't believe it, I will remind you that the first Polish satellite, amateur satellite, university satellite, I call it, is the satellite of the Warsaw University of Technology, the first commercial one was also made in part in the vicinity of Warsaw, while the first famous drill that was supposed to drill in Mars was also made by the Warsaw company, or astronomy. That must be acknowledged, ladies and gentlemen, yes, sir. Of course, there are other arguments, so they need to be balanced. At the moment, some of the arguments are cardiac, so I'd call them, some of which come from intellect. Of course, these hearts matter, too, and I'm not hiding them. And one last thing. I really do not wish Gdansk and Pomerania as a whole. On the contrary. But, in my opinion, instead of a space agency in Gdansk, there should be a Ministry of Maritime Affairs, possibly some of its departments. [[That's a good idea.]] Great. Then the Platform and I will fight for it. [[Exactly.]] Good. This is an important issue for Gdansk. There's one more thing, maybe it's a side thing, but it has to be said. Decentralisation should not be equal to regionalisation. That's what we're against. Poland is a unitary state. Decentralization is not the same as even development. Really. These are two different concepts. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u157	Thank you. [[One sentence.]] Who's calling? [[Third time.]] [[One sentence because I didn't exhaust...]] Senator Rybicki has spoken twice already. One sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u158	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. One sentence, because I cannot leave without reply the statement by the rapporteur that the agency should return to Warsaw. It is not true that she should return to Warsaw because she has never been to Warsaw. [[Exactly.]] According to the law, its seat was and is Gdansk. [[From the beginning.]] Mr. Senator, you don't argue with facts. As you might have noticed, you don't argue with facts. [[Right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u159	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Rulewski. Second time, five minutes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[From the beginning.]] [[Yes, sir.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, please don't argue in the benches. We're discussing on the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to answer that, not argue. It's about two threads. The first one is the one Senator Czerwinski was talking about here. Mr. Senator spoke of equivalent or balancing development, of the fact that it is not related to centralization or to agglomeration. But in this equivalent development there is also the rejection of stereotypes concerning the feudal construction of the state, which was, as you know, such a thought that where the king, where the king, there was the king's seat there. And the king's seat is, of course, the capital. It's old-fashioned, it's feudal, it's verified by reality. The colleagues here said that if you would accept e.g. model of the United States... Indeed, the capital of NASA, the state space research agency, is Washington, but the place where the American space program is driven, it brings together scientists, technology, capital, hotels, Houston, and maybe a little more Canberra. That's one thing. Secondly, I like Professor Wind's philosophy, which said that there are such macro harvests. Remember, Professor, when deciding that there is such a macro collection in Warsaw called the rent lobby, hotel lobby, air lobby, which makes everyone want to be in Warsaw. And with this lobby, with this macro set... I would like this to be interrupted and remembered that Poland in the Constitution is defined as a single country. Yes, in the Constitution there is a prominent capital, it is stated that this capital is Warsaw, but there are no additional privileges resulting from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u161	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm just talking about logic, reasoning. Mr. Senator Czerwiński informed us here, using his extensive knowledge, that the drill to get into Mars' soil was developed somewhere in the vicinity of Warsaw, and the first satellite At the Warsaw University of Technology. That's what the senator was learning from. I would like to say, on the basis of these conditions, that all these inventions were invented despite the fact that the agency was in Gdansk. It follows that she is absolutely okay with this and can still be there. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u163	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Rybicki and Senator Wcisła. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to legislative proposals? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u164	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yeah, I really want to say two words after all. Thank you very much for the discussion, for your conclusions. I would like to say that, in fact, even though some themes dominated this discussion, we are talking about our ambitious approach to space policy of Poland, about the fact that we have huge potential, Polish companies have huge potential, Polish science has huge potential to be part of this European ambition related to space and everything that involves conquest, so it's called space, but it's not about star wars, it's just the 21st century. All these technologies, which are now helping us to function here on Earth every day, in many cases are located in space and today Polish entrepreneurs, Polish scientists, Polish starters are not worse, and on many issues they are often better than their colleagues from abroad. The point is to create a mechanism in the country that will support these ambitions. In fact, we have a choice either in development or in status quo. This law is in favour of the development of Polish space policy. This is reflected in many records. In the discussion we had, the topic of firing workers sounded strong. I think, however, that in this discussion there was one fundamental thing missing, that we are talking about this idea in close connection with the fact that so far there were no criteria for recruitment of employees to the Polish Space Agency. Well, either we say it's supposed to be a serious agency, it's supposed to be dealing with serious issues that aren't very broad, holistic, it's just specialist, so we need specialists, we need professionals, or we don't. Therefore, for the first time, this law introduces criteria and for directors and for serial employees. For this reason, these working relationships are to expire. Here, of course, we are dealing in some sense with the legal dispute that we are witnessing, but neither government legislators nor our ministers nor Sejm legislators share the view that this important change in the form of recruitment criteria is too... or not sufficient justification. So in our opinion, even in what the Senate's Legal Office says in its opinion, it is standard I quote: The rule used for conversions etc... We believe that this is, however, a significant change in the Polish Space Agency. I would like you to accept our motivation in this respect with understanding. Just one more sentence, because I read a certain opinion, an assessment, although kindly expressed by Senator Rulewski, for a little unfair. However, Polish space policy is coordinated by the Minister responsible for economic affairs. As part of this coordination, we are doing a lot of consistent work. The Polish Space Strategy, which is defined not by the Polish Space Agency, only by the Minister responsible for economic affairs, was developed widely, inter-ministerially and adopted in January 2018. As a result, we have prepared the National Space Programme, which was adopted in December 2018. It is to be a means of implementing this strategy and there are no risks here. This law is in some sense a logical consequence of January 2018, i.e. the adoption of a strategy, December 2018, i.e. the adoption of the National Space Programme, the announcement of a competition, so that there is institutional continuity, personal continuity, as president of the Polish Space Agency. This law in some sense complements this mission, which aims to organize all space strategies, Polish space policy and to manage ambitions and the potential of Polish science and the Polish business world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u165	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, as legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on National Defence to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1184, and the report of the Commission In print No 1184 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions a report on the Sejm's adoption on 16 May. a law amending the law of the Criminal Code and certain other laws. The meeting of the joint Senate committees was held yesterday. At the meeting outside the senators, the guests were also senators, of course the legislator, the patron of Beata Mandylis, the former representatives of the Ministry of Justice, headed by Minister Marcin Warchoł and representatives of numerous organizations, institutions which, at the stage of the proceedings of this law in the Seym and the Senate, submitted their opinions, positions such as the Office of the Ombudsman, the National Council of Curators, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the Police Headquarters. The subject matter of the Senate's bill is the revision of the penal code, an important change, because, as the legislator has calculated in her opinion, it concerns 105 of the existing criminal code 363 articles, and in addition some of the amendments concern other criminal laws. So that we are actually dealing with an important, extensive, revision of the criminal code, which, in general, implies an increase in the severity of criminal repression, especially against the perpetrators of crimes against life, health, sexual freedom, including, in particular, the perpetrators of crimes that we call paedophile crimes, crimes against minors. The Act provides for tightening of criminal sanctions, extending the institution of an exceptional tightening of the penalty and amending the Directives on the dimension of the penalty in order to mark its repressive and dissuasive function. The amendments introduced by the law specifically concern: extending the application of the Penal Code to minors; removing 25 years of imprisonment from the list of prison sentences; making the fine imposed conditional on the threat of imprisonment; increasing the severity of criminal penalties for individual acts resulting from the increase of the upper limit of the sentence of imprisonment from 15 to 30 years; tightening up the rules of criminal proceedings; introducing a catalogue of aggravating and mitigating circumstances; tightening the liability for criminal offences of a hooligan nature; tightening the liability for continuous conduct; tightening the liability of offenders against sexual liberty or morals; introducing the possibility of ruling, optionally and compulsoryly, prohibiting conditional early release against those sentenced to life imprisonment; extending the limitation period for criminal offences of 30 to 40 years; and introducing new types of criminal offences. At the beginning of the committee meeting, Minister Warchoł discussed these most important changes. In addition to what I have said so far, there is also a need to mention changes in terms of increasing sanctions for the rape of a minor, for sexual intercourse with a minor, for other sexual acts, changes in the introduction of a mandatory criminal measure in the form of a ban on contacting the victim, a restraining order against the victim or an order to leave the premises occupied together with the victim, an extension of the scope of the information disclosed in the so-called. a pedophile registry for information on the profession performed by the perpetrator at the time of the crime. It is also a flexible measure of punishment to give courts the opportunity to judge in accordance with their sense of justice and commensurate with the burden of guilt. What I was talking about, so the introduction of a sentence of imprisonment up to the age of 30... so far it has been possible to sentence a maximum of 15 years of imprisonment and a special sentence of 25 years of imprisonment. At this point it will be possible to decide e.g. 22 years of imprisonment or 18 years of imprisonment. For the most dangerous crimes, we introduce a stricter sentence. And so on. for kidnapping for the ransom, for up to 20 years imprisonment, for trafficking in human beings, for imprisonment of up to 20 years, for imprisonment with special torment, and for up to 20 years imprisonment. There is a significant tightening of penalties when the perpetrator acts in an organised criminal group. The law also introduces new types of crime, e.g. preparation for a murder for which there will be two to 15 years of imprisonment, acceptance of a homicide order, the crime of stealing impudently, evasion of the damage caused by crime, theft of a payment card. Up until now, such a crime has been punished as theft and the court has had difficulty determining whether it is a simple theft for which it threatens from 3 months to 5 years, or a burglary theft, with a sentence from 1 to 10 years imprisonment. Another cumbersome crime is the theft of license plates, which has so far been a misdemeanor, and at this point in the proposed Seym submission becomes a crime. The next objective of this comprehensive legislative change is also, as in the committee's meeting, Mr Marcin Warchoł referred to the fight against economic scandals. According to the project, the acceptance of a property benefit of more than PLN 1 million will be punishable by imprisonment of between 3 and 20 years. At present it is In case of an advantage of more than PLN 100 thousand, between 2 and 12 years imprisonment. In case of large-scale counterfeiting of invoices, i.e. over PLN 5 million, it will be between 5 and 25 years imprisonment. There is also a tightening of penalties for the most serious crimes. This tightening brings our penal code closer, according to the Minister, to solutions in many other countries of the European Union. This is not an expression of restraint, but merely elementary justice. To date, Polish law against the background of solutions in other countries and, above all, a certain legal practice that has been shaped for many years has been extremely lenient. An example of this is the present dimension of the penalty for rape, where in basic mode we have 2 to 12 years of imprisonment, for example. In France it is 15, 20, and even 30 years of imprisonment. In the case of child rape, we currently have 3 to 15 years of imprisonment, for example. Belgium 20 to 30 years of imprisonment. Trafficking in human beings is punishable between 3 and 15 years of imprisonment, for example. in the Netherlands Up to 18 years of imprisonment. In judicial practice, the differences between our country and Western European countries are even more apparent. Murderers sentenced to life imprisonment in our country are only 4% of those convicted of murder, while the European Union average is 12%. On average, the courts in the European Union have a maximum penalty for murder three times more often. In Germany it is 21% , in England, 34%, in Greece Even 43%. Murderers sentenced to more than 5 years imprisonment in Poland is 4% , and the average in the European Union is 12% In some countries, almost 50%. In the event of health injury in our country only 2% The perpetrators are sentenced to more than five years of imprisonment. The average in the European Union is 4% , and in Slovakia, up to 14%. The perpetrators of drug crimes sentenced to more than 5 years of imprisonment in Poland are 4%. The European Union average is 7% In England, 13% , Slovakia It's up to 36%. In his speech, the Minister concluded by stressing that the public, the public, the Poles expect a tightening of criminal policy, especially in the case of these most cruel, beastly criminal crimes of a criminal nature, of a sexual nature, but also in the area of these economic crimes, there is such a belief. The scale of impunity and the pettyness of the criminal response to these, after all, very damaging to the economy, to the budgets of individual citizens of crime is particularly shocking. In conclusion, the purpose of the bill itself... As you can see, this is not just a law directed at these maybe the loudest in recent days and the most intensely exposed in the media sex crimes, paedophile crimes. This is indeed a legislative change that has made a breakthrough in criminal policy, in the philosophy of the dimension of punishment, rationalisation of penalties, rules of punishment, criminal measures. With regard to the proceedings of the committee, I will start by saying that representatives of the Civic Platform club have raised from the very beginning the speed of proceedings over the law both in the Seym and in the Senate. They argued that this was a code change and should therefore be carried out over a longer period of time, in a broader consultation process. As a result, it was requested... that the committee be adjourned, especially in view of the fact that the Senators of Law and Justice had already signalled a package of amendments, a large package of 30 amendments, both in order, legislative and removing certain regulations adopted in the Sejm. It can be said that this law met with strong criticism on the part of the opposition. This criticism was also taken by some of the guests who were in the room, e.g. from the Krakow Institute of Criminal Law, also by a representative of the Ombudsman. Traditionally, frontal allegations were raised concerning the non-constitutionality of both this law, its assumptions, its specific provisions and the legislative process itself, especially at the seymical stage. As I said, the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice has tabled a package of 30 amendments. Of these most important amendments, I would like to signal an amendment on the article commented out loud in the media. 212. As announced by the Minister Zbigniew Ziobra here, we are withdrawing from the legislative changes in this area, and we are maintaining the legislative status quo here. The amendment concerning the Article has been tabled. 200. Here doubts have been raised in such a doctrine that the change introduced in the Seym de facto abolishes the criminality of the act of bringing a minor to sexual intercourse by the age of 15, thus de facto narrows down the responsibility for paedophile crimes. Of course, this is not the purpose of the law, on the contrary. We want to tighten the criminal responsibility in this area and ensure that the perpetrators of these acts bear a more stringent and much more effective criminal responsibility. I'm not going to discuss all the amendments because it would take a lot of time. Some of these amendments are typically legislative, ordering, editorial, I would say, legal and expert. However, it can be concluded that these are amendments which clarify this law, explain any doubts raised in the Seym stage. I think that, to a large extent, the doubts raised in their opinions by experts, participants in the opinion-based and consultative process are also exhausting. It is also worth noting that the amendments to the Law and Justice were almost completely exhausted by the amendments of the legislator, and in addition, many amendments by the legislator, which were not in line with our amendments, have also been taken into account by us. Here I must emphasize the enormous work that your counsel has done... [[Mandylis.]] ... Counselor Mandylis. Your patron has been very helpful in this process. I think that's all for the report. I would add that it was put to the vote by a motion to accept all amendments one by one, and it was accepted, please take a look at the senate printing of 41 amendments to the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[41 amendments... this is the new bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u167	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Rulewski called in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u168	The Senator rapporteur, reporting on the speeches made by the committee's members, used such a statement that there were guests who had given critical opinions. The first question is this: does this mean that other guests were not admitted to the committee meeting or that these other guests were not at all? I remind you that these guests were representatives of the Foundation, the Ombudsman It's hard to see him as a guest, isn't it? The representatives of the Helsinki Foundation and others. How do you think... how do you feel about the lack of symmetrical supporters among the guests who have arrived in connection with this monumental bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u169	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u170	Well, a supporter of this bill is the government supported by most senators in the Senate. I think that's enough power... [[On the committee...]] ...political to make these changes effective. By the way, I'm used to having guests over. In this term of office of the Senate Usually they work well together with the opposition club of the Civic Platform and usually criticize our solutions strongly. I will repeat what I said earlier: a very large proportion of the comments made by the opinion-makers have been taken into account by us in many amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u171	Any of your senators want to ask you another question? Mr. Senator Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u172	I'd like to ask the senator what caused it. Mr. Senator may not know this, but maybe you do, because you're a member of the parliamentary majority. That the mode of working on this bill was so express... [[Voice from the hall: Let the Sejm worry...]] ...and in conjunction with the evident violation of the Rules of Procedure in the Seym? Maybe you heard something about it. Then maybe you could share it with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u173	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u174	Mr. Senator, to be honest, I will avoid answering this question because it is not my role as a senator to discuss why the laws in the Sejm have been conducted in such a way and not otherwise. All I can say is that the issues covered by this amendment are indeed the subject of a very strong interest of both politicians, opposition politicians and society at present. This topic has sounded very strongly in the discussions in recent days, in recent weeks. Therefore, I think that since there is such a strong public interest in these problems, this must be addressed effectively. [[I'm just gonna ask, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u175	Complementive? There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u176	I'll ask, yeah. It means that you're guessing that it was about the public, the public, waiting for urgent regulations. Yes? Does this apply to e.g. stealing car plates? Did the public demand swift action on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u177	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u178	Mr. Senator, it's not a secret either. It's been written many times in the media. That the Ministry of Justice has been preparing for a long time a comprehensive revision of criminal law. Since it was combined that these changes were combined... It means they're over, that's all. [[Yeah, I get it. And if it took a month instead of two days, would it make any difference?]] Mr. Senator, it is so that with today's action of the total opposition, basically every action on our part is faced with frontal, categoric and total criticism. In this respect, I believe that if we were to postpone this amendment now, then you would attack, that it is the Law and Justice that does not fight these phenomena which are now so strongly emphasized in public space. [[I'm not talking about putting off, I'm talking about a normal job in the Seym and the Senate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u179	Mr. Senator, perhaps you should join the discussion because such a dialogue is turning into a discussion. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u180	Mr. Senator, this remark that the total opposition, etc... Well, total power, so I can answer, we need total opposition, but I'm not going to dig it up. You have gone beyond the role of rapporteur in this matter. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask, however, whether the pace of the bill's process had anything to do with the Sekielski film on pedophilia in the Church, or whether it was just an unauthorized conjecture of mine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u181	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u182	Mr. Marshal, I have given myself so lightly to Marshal Borowski, and I will no longer continue this thread because it was not the subject of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u183	You're asking Senator Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Minister, I have a question about the rapporteur. Because the express mode bill came to us from the Sejm, advertised as a great legal act, and... [[He's a bubble.]] [[Voice from the room: Any explanations?]] ...I don't recall the ruling party making a few dozen amendments. Plus these offers from the guests. Was this subject discussed at the committee's meeting, why the bill advertised as perfect and prepared for many months... [[Hurry up.]] ... turned out to be such an imperfect creation that a few dozen amendments had to be tabled? Was this subject discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u185	I'm asking for a brief answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u186	Yes, Mr. Senator, I've already said that in my opening statement. It was the main argument of criticism of the Civic Platform club that the bill is being prosecuted too hastily that it contains errors that it is... [[Voice from the room: Unconstitutional.]] ...unconstitutional that it's incomplete.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u187	The question you're asking is Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u188	Thank you very much. Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask you about the electronic surveillance system. Namely, the threshold of the sentence is increased to 1 year and 6 months. Until now, it's been a year. And then there's the information that, at the time of the penalty interruption, there will also be the possibility of using this electronic surveillance. Does this apply only to those penalties committed for 1 year and 6 months, or to others for whom the defendant or the convicted person is granted permission to interrupt the execution of the sentence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u189	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u190	Senator, I don't know if I'm gonna be able to do this right away... This question can be redirected to the Minister. But from what I have here, in the justification for the amendments, it's... No, it's just a laconic justification. Therefore, please redirect the question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u191	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u192	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I would like to ask whether during the committee's work there have been considerations of the nature of the effects on the system of application of the law that may arise and on the liability of the State for decisions which may be the subject of proceedings as regards judgments which will be challenged because of the unconstitutional nature of the criminal code. It is now raised in the public debate that it is very likely that the Constitutional Tribunal, this or, in the future, another, will question the compatibility of the criminal code, which is in such, and not in any other way, prosecuted, with the constitution. Was this issue raised at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u194	Yes, this issue has been raised. This unconstitutionality of the procedure was particularly discussed by the representatives of the Krakow Institute of Criminal Law, and also by the senators. This may not be a constitutional issue, but a question of compliance with European law... Well, here was the particular issue of a life sentence that cannot be shortened early. Here, in particular, the Ombudsman's representative argued that, both in European case law and in certain guidelines of the Council of Europe, such a penalty is considered an inhumane, inhumane punishment, and therefore problems may arise, for example, in the extradition of perpetrators whose crimes are at risk of such punishment. But there is also one of our amendments in this direction, which introduces the optional decision of such a life sentence. According to the Parliament's submission, in some cases the court was required to impose such a penalty, and at this point it may order such a penalty.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u195	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you were talking about the time limit being questioned... that the constitutional term for the work on this bill was at least broken, so to speak. I have a question: was there any change in the constitution, or were there any changes made to the provisions on the special formula for proceding codes? Because, as far as I know, there's a hard time in the constitution, and there's a consultation, and that's why we had the right to... Do you agree or not? My second question concerns the extension of the definition of a public servant. We talked about this a lot, too. It was particularly about adding members of the cooperative, but also a national organisation. Can you answer... There was no discussion about the national organisation, so if you don't want to answer, I'm going to redirect this question to the Minister, but I'm going to ask: does this also apply to associations, foundations? What, in fact, is the national organisation involved? Well, I don't want to be mean, but the national association of canary lovers can also be subject to such an assessment resulting from this extension, which means that such people also perform a public role and will include a special codified tightening of penalties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u197	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u198	As far as the first question is concerned, Senator, with all due respect, I am not the judge of constitutionality of the procession, especially of the Seym, but also of the Senate. That's what the Constitutional Tribunal is for. If you have doubts about this, you must bring this procedure before the Constitutional Court. That's one thing. Secondly, when it comes to the status of a public servant, one of our amendments can actually change this issue quite extensively. But I remember this moment when we were discussing it, and let me be honest, it was kind of a chaotic discussion, and we didn't get a response, either, about what you said... [[...cooperatives and national organisations.]] ...the national organization, yes. So I would also direct this question to the Minister, because he's certainly competent.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u199	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u200	I will continue with the question of compliance with constitutional acts, which the senator has already answered... Is it true that there has been a reservation from the serious mouth, because the representatives of the legislative department, that in terms of the provisions concerning the life sentence and the execution of this penalty, there may be reservations from the European Court of Human Rights, as well as from the Council of Europe, with negative consequences for Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u201	Yes. I'm actually referring to this one more time. It was an accusation that was particularly exposed by your patron and discussed in very detail, indicating that this kind of punishment is incompatible with the guidelines, incompatible with... [[And sentences.]] ...with a line of case law. For the sake of fairness, I would add that, as I remember this discussion, the polemicism between the prosecutor, the representative of the National Public Prosecutor's Office, and the legislator, it was emphasized there that it is not only that it is some axioms, but only in this area of criminal policy formation it is possible also to change standards, also to change the law line. These are not matters decided once and for all that can never be changed. So, now also in the area of criminal policy in European law, in the doctrine of criminal law, there are changes in the direction in which our legislative changes are going, that is to say, to tighten up criminal policy, to increase penalties, to change the whole philosophy of punishment, which has evolved in such a liberal way for decades. That's what I'd say. With great emphasis on prison sentences, on the educational role of punishment, on the avoidance of long-term imprisonment, on early release, on limited imprisonment, etc. So there's definitely a dispute here, but it was also shown by the ministry that we are on the road to a certain polemic, on the way to developing a new, adequate criminal policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u202	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u203	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, during the discussion at the committee's meeting on criminal policy, there were voices in the debate that, as part of the current criminal policy, before the revision of the criminal code, there were sufficient tools to pursue effectively, for example. Pedophile crimes? Is that the voice that came out? Is it necessary to amend the Penal Code to pursue these criminals more effectively under the new criminal policy, in particular those related to pedophilia offences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u204	I do not recall a specific statement so precisely formulated that it is just enough of the instrumentarium that we have. This is probably the view of some of the opposition senators, but I do not recall it being so clear at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u205	I don't see any questions coming up, so thank you to the rapporteur... [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Zbigniew Ziobro, Minister of Justice, is taking part in the Senate deliberations. Would a government representative like to speak? Would the Minister like to speak? If so, please have a platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating in the House a far-reaching, profound revision of the criminal code, which concerns the most serious crimes committed by the dangerous, I stress, often very dangerous perpetrators, and some corrections which result from the observation of the practice and shortcomings of this, requiring a change in the case of such a change, which will facilitate the proper and correct application of criminal law. It can be said that there has always been a debate in Poland about whether criminal law should be strict or perhaps mild, as others want, and punishment should only be inevitable. Well, this dispute, which is drawn in this way, is a dispute that is fundamentally false and untrue, it has a very large... not a pinch, but a dose of demagogy and manipulation. For punishment should be and inevitable, where possible, and sufficiently severe. There is no alternative here: raw or inevitable. The penalty should be sufficiently severe and inevitable as far as possible. We can imagine such a criminal system, perfect in terms of the functioning and practice of law enforcement, in which the police, I would add, there is no such system in the world. It captures every crime, but punishments are purely symbolic. The criminal is often a criminal thinking, a criminal calculating, and it may turn out that the inevitable capture of him in committing crimes will not alienate him at all from committing further crimes, because it will pay off to him anyway, he will calculate that it is worth committing these crimes. We do not need to look far for examples that can prove this, because this example can be taken from the life of Poland during the reign of the Civic Platform, when it was extremely worth committing crimes such as VAT, acting within organized criminal groups, and organizing VAT carousels, carrying out huge money to the detriment of the Treasury. Those were crimes... You could say it was a criminal paradise. When I became the Attorney General, I had him examine the legal practice. And what did it turn out to be? Only in every tenth case were the sentences of absolute imprisonment. The perpetrators of crimes, who extorted tens of millions of zlotys, received the so-called. penalties in hinges, and more importantly, they were obliged to repay some damage to the Treasury, which no one enforced, and to pay a fine which was symbolic. They stole millions and got fined in thousands. Well, live not die. If someone is cynical, there is no scruples and motivations of an ethical nature, then with such a functioning legal system, even as detection will be 100 percent, and so he would be a loser if he hadn't robbed you, cheated for millions, because in this way he guarantees himself and the whole family the comfort of life, you can say, for generations It can buy yachts, and maybe even islands, because it's that kind of money. Well, not only inevitability, but also proper severity is important. And we, coming from this assumption, in this particular case, have already introduced a tightening of criminal liability. Namely, in February or January 2017, the Sejm, also with the increased criticism of the Civic Platform, the opposition, the Modern, adopted the solution which I proposed, introduced a tightening of penalties for crimes related to the operation of the VAT mafia, within the framework of VAT carousels, introduced a sentence of 25 years imprisonment in respect of invoices exceeding PLN 10 million. Minimum penalty of 5 years, maximum of 25 years. So? So? Look what happened the following month when these regulations were adopted. Suddenly, not to know why, several billion more in February 2017 went to the state budget. What did that come from? What do you think? What else happened then besides the fact that the criminals in the white collars realized that these yachts they stole, all the luxury of life they've already guaranteed themselves, suddenly they can turn into 25 years of cell, not necessarily in comfortable conditions and not necessarily in clean and fragrant air? Because punishment is important, especially for those who calculate, because of course we are dealing with different perpetrators. Punishment matters because they think and judge whether they are worth committing a crime or not. In some categories, unfortunately, the Polish state was extremely mild towards violent criminals, and it treated them incredibly liberally, thus encouraging them to commit serious crimes. This applies not only to crimes committed by white collars, economic crimes, but also to other types of crimes. Of course, crime varies, the nature of crime varies, but, very important, the personality of the perpetrator sometimes requires a different response depending on his motivation, on factors that generate entry into the way of crime and harm others. In the case of paedophile crimes, we often have a motivation that can be defined in terms of a disturbed personality sphere, at the edge of a disease that causes such a person to be so determined as to satisfy his sick sexual desires that, without regard to whether he goes to prison or not, he will be willing to pay for it. The child committed this act. An example? Before I became Minister of Justice It was probably in Grudziądz in 2015, i.e. under the government of the opposition state, the case of a paedophile, a violent criminal who had previously committed rapes with particular cruelty towards children was described. He was released from the Sztum Penitentiary, if I remember correctly, and the next day... what did he do? Violent raped a nine-year-old boy. [[And he was a member of the PO.]] Maybe. [[Mr. Senator...]] If he was a member of the PO... Maybe that's the senator's knowledge. [[Please sign up for the discussion and don't disturb me.]] Go to the Internet and check, I'm talking about a particular case. I hope this isn't a mockery, Mr. Senator. I trust that's not the case. From the suffering of this child who was brutally raped by a depraved paedophile. And here's the question of whether criminal sanctions would matter to the perpetrators so corrupt or not. It would have been important because, under the criminal code on the basis of which this corrupt, dangerous paedophile was convicted, he was punishable with a maximum of 15 years of imprisonment, and on the basis of the solutions we propose, he could be punished with 30 years of imprisonment. Well, 15 and 30 years, is there a difference? There's a difference. And how does that affect possible victims? So that this unsub could at the time when he committed this cruel rape in the wild, sit in a penitentiary. He ain't gonna hurt no kid out there. It's called isolation function. It's supposed to isolate the punishment. Of course, we don't want to isolate petty thieves, petty offenders, involuntary crimes, that's not the point, but we want to use this function of punishment when we're dealing with really dangerous criminals who, if they go free after they've been punished, they're gonna be very likely to go back to crime anyway and they're gonna hurt, for example. innocent children. And who should the Polish state protect first, if not defenceless children? I think it's pretty obvious. Therefore, I would like to say to you that the punishment only deters certain categories of perpetrators, but such a sexual deviant would probably not deter them. In his case, this penalty mechanism would not work, this deterrent function. But the isolation function of the penalty would work as much as possible. And she should be the right response to such sick urges, to the terrible crimes that such a bandit is willing to commit to satisfy his, as I say, criminal, criminal inclinations at the expense of children. I'm talking about the deterrent function, I'm talking about the isolation function, but there's another very important function. Everyone talks about it and knows it, it is common knowledge that reports of certain categories of crime only in a very narrow way reach the knowledge of the state, i.e. There's a huge amount, as they say, a dark number of crimes, that is, events about which the victim is not ready for some reason, even though he's often affected by a horrible crime, information to law enforcement, he's not ready to go to the prosecution, to the police, and then to go to court. One might ask: why isn't she ready? Well, from the research that has been conducted, it appears that people who have been harmed are also involved in raped women, not only children. They don't want to go through that horrible trauma again, which was a terrible experience, because it was not only rape on their bodies, but also on their souls, psychological rape, severe trauma. So they do not want to go through this in the next stages of criminal, prosecutorial, judicial proceedings, because they do not believe that the perpetrator will be punished in their own right. They have no faith that the result of their notification will be a sufficiently strict treatment of the bandit, guaranteeing these women or victims in general, children • It is also about the motivation of their parents to isolate such a criminal to make them feel safe. Therefore, punishment, within the meaning of fair payback for evil, in line with the motivation of the victim, is of great importance. A sense of justice is a sense that is in every human being, and we must respect the sense of justice of the victim. And what is the sense of justice for victims if, until recently, more than 40% of women's rapes were suspended? What is the sense of justice of parents who learn that in cases of sexual exploitation of children, more than 40% of sentences are suspended sentences? That is why we are introducing a tightening of penalties, which is why we are also raising the lower limits of criminal threats in order to correct this situation and induce the courts to make a stricter criminal policy, as requested by the legislator. And the legislator wishes that this is exactly what I am teaching here, because we also want to respect the justice of those affected by crime, the victims. We should listen to these people in a special way, especially with regard to children. I would like to say to you that the law also raises universal respect and respect when it is more or less consistent with the common feeling. It's not good when the law, his image, is completely dispersed with real social expectation. Here I will appeal, Dear State, to the research carried out by 4 public opinion research centres in Poland, among others. Kantar Public, CBOS and Ipsos, and these studies were conducted together, if summarized, on a group of 4 000 people, so these are extremely precise studies as regards the picture of Poles' expectations about the need to tighten criminal policy. So what do the Poles think? I think it's worth it for us. Senators, representatives of Poles, representatives of Polish citizens, our society They asked themselves this question and it is worth listening to the answer, not going beyond what the Poles think, considering themselves to be the better and wiser ones. I trust that we all have humility and we want to listen and not just say that we know better. So I want to listen, and that's why these questions are very interesting to me. Let me give you an example. Do you consider that, in order to reduce crime and improve the safety of citizens, criminal law should be tightened and severely punished as criminal offences? 66% of the positive response Poles. 66% Poles believe that criminal law should be tightened and criminals treated harshly. The question of murder with particular cruelty is what punishment should be. The question is, do you agree or disagree with the fact that a crime of this kind, that is, murder with particular cruelty, should only threaten to do so? I would like to stress: only One punishment, life imprisonment? A positive, affirmative answer, yes, I agree with 42% citizens. Definitely doesn't agree with that just 2.7% respondents. It's more like 45%. So it's pretty much a match, and it's up to 42% and 45%. That's over 80% of the population together. This shows a sense of justice in social perception, which is also important for general respect for the law and cannot be completely treated indifferently. This is the emanation of the nation. By representatives of society who should not pretend to have eaten all their senses and know better than citizens. Are the perpetrators of intentional murders It's no longer about killings with special cruelty, but about intentional killings should be punished harsher than today? Seventy-six percent of the answers are harsher. Subjects. Should robbers be punished harshly? 66.7% He says it's harsher. What about the perpetrators of the rapes? As much as 84% Says the perpetrators of the rapes should be treated more harshly. There's another category. There are different categories Which I'll tell you about. The proposal of tightening criminal law also concerns major economic scandals, actions to the detriment of the Polish state and to the detriment of citizens, the Amber Gold scandals and penalties for them. We asked whether the perpetrators of fraud associated with multi-million-dollar losses, whether they be state or citizen, should be punished more severely than today. The answer was 78%, that it was harsher. citizens, more than in the case of robberies. It was a surprise to me, I'm not. In conclusion, I will say that there is no contradiction between the inevitability and efficiency of the authorities of the State, which should be as high as possible and the appropriate criminal response, sufficiently severe, especially in the case of the most serious crimes. These elements are coming together. They also help, you can say, to break up criminal activity and to learn about the perpetrators of further crimes that are not known to the authorities of the state, to investigate their assets. If the prosecutor in charge or the court is already at a judicial stage, it is possible to apply an exceptional relief for the perpetrator who is at risk of 25 years of imprisonment, the perpetrator is more motivated to cooperate with law enforcement authorities, to expose other accomplices and indicate where the assets were hidden than when he was threatened with probation. And that's why we have much better results in our day. Since the introduction of changes in criminal law, there have been better results in breaking up criminal groups, for example. They're paranoid about VAT fraud. Now almost everyone wants to cooperate immediately, and before that there was complete silence, head in the sand, water in the mouth, and unwillingness to cooperate. Because it wasn't worth it. So these elements complement each other. I'd like to stress that I don't think that's how it sounds. It is clear that penalties should be tightened in the case of all offences. Of course not. Few of this, in this solution, are proposed to alleviate penalties, which escapes the attention of some commentators, for minor crimes, such as may be punishable by imprisonment for up to a year and a half. We allow the so-called ones to be used in such cases. electronic rings so that the perpetrators do not have to go to prisons so that they can serve a sentence of imprisonment within a much milder security, cheaper for the state. It is about electronic monitoring, the use of surveillance related to modern technology, the so-called. The rings that allow us to monitor the perpetrator. So we're relaxing the records. But for what perpetrators? Those who commit much milder crimes, those who for the first time have committed crimes that have not committed acts from the catalog of the harshest, the catalog to which this revision of the Penal Code is dedicated. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard some kind of opinion, extremely demagogical, such as the essence of propaganda associated with the election campaign, that our proposals alleviate the punishments for pedophiles. I really don't know... I don't want to be rude and I don't want to comment on it, because strong words should be said here to describe such opinions. So I will limit myself only to recalling facts that are sufficiently eloquent in terms of tightening criminal policy in the case of paedophile crimes. So here's the thing: today, for example. The introduction of violence, a threat or a ruse to sexual intercourse is punishable by a sentence of 2 - 12 years imprisonment, and will be 2 - 15 years imprisonment. Rape against a minor under the age of 15 is punishable by a penalty of 3-15 years and is punishable by a penalty of 5 to 30 years imprisonment. Rape against a minor under the age of 15, which remains dependent on the perpetrator, is about different situations where this dependence is due, for example. From the teacher's care, I don't know, a priest or any guardian, and then there's rape... Here we are tightening the lower border, raising it to 8 years imprisonment. So today it is 3 - 15 years old, and it will be 8 - 30 years old. Rape with special child cruelty is 5 - 15 years old and will be 10 - 30 years imprisonment. Rape when a serious injury occurs - 3 - 15 years - will be 10 - 30 years imprisonment. If rape is caused by death... This applies to situations where, for legal reasons, it is impossible to accuse the perpetrator of murder, which must be linked to the demonstration of the intention of the perpetrator or direct or possible deprivation of life, but due to the brutality of this rape, often the age of the child, which is particularly vulnerable to the action of an adult in such a case - wounds and mutilations can be particularly far-reaching - as a result, the death of such a child occurs after some time. Then we also introduce the possibility of punishment for life imprisonment. Today the maximum sentence is 15 years imprisonment. So how can we be accused of mitigating pedophilia? Really! I don't think we should have any self-respect, because people listen, think, and hear something. So it is really worth considering the effectiveness of persuasion. If someone wants to hurt us, I don't know if he's hurting himself more if he's reaching for the repertoire of the kind of means that have to do with reality, like the proverbial fist to his nose. I could give more examples, but I'm gonna drop it, because I think what I said is convincing enough and doesn't need to be developed. There have also been allegations that we have allegedly led to the abolition of the criminality of bringing a minor to sexual intercourse. Indeed, we have made a change in the legal description of the acts, but in no way has this resulted in such a consequence, as some experts in the media have feared. I know that at the meeting of the Senate Committee held yesterday, one of the experts from the Krakow School who prepared the opinion initially made such a thesis, but admitted that by eliminating this concept of bringing a minor to sexual intercourse, there would be no decriminalisation. He agreed that such conduct would continue to be punishable as a phenomenal form of committing a crime in the form of aiding. For in the Polish penal code there is the concept of Prof. Makarewicz from the interwar period. This is a great achievement of Polish criminal law science. There are different forms: direct form − culpability, and the phenomenal form of committing a crime by participation, which is not strictly the cause of a given act, but is aid or instigation to a given act. And criminal liability in this respect As for the criminal penalty, it is the same as for acts in the form of a criminal offence, i.e. the direct fulfilment of the act in question. I have a question: if someone's bringing a minor into sexual contact, is it helping the perpetrator or not? Who's to say it's not helping? Is there someone like that? If he's helping, that means he's subject to criminal responsibility. And it's scaring the Poles, saying that we're relieving responsibility, because we're going to eliminate the criminal content of such behavior, which is leading a minor to commit a crime, well, it's... Well, I don't want to comment on what he is anymore. But this is why, in order to stop or not give excuses for this kind of false rhetoric, which goes to the Polish public opinion, to people who do not know about legal nuances, do not know about the concept of Makarewicz, do not know that it is possible to commit a crime in the form of an act of instigation or aiding... This is difficult to explain in a hundred to the news or the facts, which is why we have returned to this formulation. If someone is attached to him, we can say: please, we are ready to respect certain habits that have come here, and tradition. Although it is relatively short in Polish penal codification. All right, we can leave it, but we didn't eliminate it and there was no threat of liquidation. That's one of those corrections. The point is not to give an excuse to falsely scare and call unnecessary emotions by misleading the Polish public. I would add that this concept of bringing a minor to sexual relations only appeared at a certain point, because the 1969 Penal Code did not use such wording at all, but it used much broader concepts. It was a harlot's act or a lewd act in the case of minors. So this tradition isn't too long. Also on the basis of the criminal code, already amended, in 1997, there was a change in the description of the act in 2004 and another meaning was given in the sense of bringing about the submission of acts to the harlot. Other importance was until 2004 and others are already after 2004. And none of it made a big deal out of it except that it was pointed out that there was a redefining of a criminal record for a better, by the way, because it broadened the scope of criminalisation. Ladies and gentlemen, juvenile delinquency is extremely disgusting. Sexual crime against minors is horrible in its very essence, especially when it concerns small children, especially if we are still dealing with the violent side of the perpetrator's actions. And that is why I believe that, since there was such a social emotion, since such expectations arose, since the revision of the criminal code was already very mature both in relation to these crimes and other dangerous crimes, it is good that we could have tried these solutions. And it's good that the Senate is debating this case today. And nothing bad is happening because of this, as some people want to say, that many amendments have been made. That is the role of the High House. If such amendments were not reported during the work of the High House, one might ask: why, then, the Senate? Well, that's what the Senate is for, and that's what the legislative process is for, so that we can continue to discuss and possibly make adjustments. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Well, I guess that's what the Senate's for. Yes? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, unless we're wrong and we go back to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]] [[Please do not disturb the Minister, all the more so because he speaks very well. Thank you very much.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[What's there to laugh about? What are you laughing at?]] ...and we will return to the idea of moving away from the Senate tradition as the second House. If there is a second Chamber, it is a Chamber of reflection, as the name indicates. This is the House, which is supposed to think about solutions and also look for compromises where they are possible. And these compromises are made here. Most of these amendments are precisely an expression of such thinking, and some are of the nature of changes with the characteristics of technical legislative corrections. And there's nothing wrong with that. This is normal legislative work. There is no mistake here and no problem that would make this extraordinary situation. Many projects are subject to further amendments and corrections at the Senate's work stage This was also the case in previous terms. And none of this was a big problem. That is not enough, I will give you an example from the previous term when the Civic Platform ruled. There was a big change in criminal codification, criminal procedure. And what did it turn out to be? During the vacathio legis, the government of the Civic Platform, which led to the adoption of this change A deep, major revision of the criminal procedure There were no deficiencies at the time, and sometimes, unfortunately, in this case, this was the case. • substantive errors at the stage of the Senate's work. You could say the Senate didn't do its job. That is why it was necessary to adopt the law again, to carry it out by the Sejm and during the period of vacatio legis to amend the law which had already been passed. Well, it's a good thing you don't have to do that. [[It has to be done.]] And it's a good thing that there's a senate who does his job and does his job. Well, I'm happy for you, too. The fact that our critics' opinions have emerged. With the vast majority of these comments I disagree, some I consider to be worthy of consideration and discussion, as to some, I think it is worth meeting and not crushing copies of phrases just like that of bringing a minor... etc., because if someone is accustomed to such a nomenclature and is based on this kind of formulation already developed line of case law, it is indeed worth leaving it, but let us discuss it honestly. Let's not say that we've eliminated or decriminated certain behaviors, made them unpunished, because that's obviously not true. High Izbo, the change in criminal law primarily concerns the fight against these most serious crimes, but by the way, as I mentioned, we correct certain criminal behaviours that practice has not dealt with, burdensome crimes, crimes related e.g. using an ATM card against someone's will, or by crooks entering the bank accounts of Poles and extorting money from them. Is it wrong that we are introducing this correction and showing how to treat such crimes when it is beginning to be a plague and people often lose their entire wealth of life? Well, I guess it's a good thing we made that change. Similarly, I think it is good that we respond to an increasingly massive phenomenon which Poles are complaining about, i.e. the phenomenon of the theft of license plates, which are used by thieves, for example, to commit other crimes, e.g. Steal gas from a gas station. Right? There was no good way to do that, there was no way to react, these cases were widely ignored by the police, because they were just misdemeanors. Now we are giving Poles the right to demand that the perpetrators of such crimes be prosecuted and prosecuted. High Izbo, the changes we are proposing, also appeared in the context of an important discussion, a debate on pedophilia, also in an extremely important institution for the vast majority of Poles, the Catholic Church. Of course, I can say, also as a Catholic, as a Pole, as a man whose Catholic Church is not foreign, and who is close, that every such act committed by a priest towards a child is always horrible, extremely reprehensible and deserving of being treated even in my opinion more than by some average Kowalski who commits such a crime. But let us remember that the attempt to create this kind of narrative in this situation, that the problem of pedophilia is a problem of only one environment, the Catholic Church, is a manifest manipulation and it is such manipulation to the cube. I will remind you of my experience when, as the Attorney General, in fulfilling the request of the American court, I wanted to lead to the release of the American side of a well-known director, Mr. Roman Polanski, who committed rape of an under 13-year-old girl at the time of the incident. So what happened then? [[Applause]] Did these artistic environments, or opinion-makers in Poland express some understanding of this, support and disapproval of this act, which was once committed to this girl, or on the contrary? The Attorney General, in this case in my person, has been the subject of numerous attacks, including letters and petitions of persons, as I recall, led by Agnieszka Holland and other famous figures of the artistic world, who expressed strong opposition and claimed that I was committing some kind of assassination against the freedom of Mr Polanski. How dare I touch such a great authority, an icon of Polish cinema in the matter of some American judge's motion? So what's the consequence? So what? This possible injury to the child, the injury of a 13-year-old girl raped by a priest is different from the one raped by the director? Or is that what you're saying? I'm talking to these people, and I'm directing this question to those who are willing to repeat this narration. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And is the suffering of a girl who's gonna be raped by an artist different than the one you're gonna rape? So I would like to point out that unfortunately the problem of pedophilia is not the problem of one environment. I will remind you of the case of a well-known conductor, head of the choir, well-deserved, one can say, for the artistic environment of Poznań, which the prosecution has accused of raping dozens of boys, and it is also the perpetrator of an AIDS patient who was not disturbed by these rapes. It wasn't a priest, it was a famous and outstanding artist. And you remember a well-known psychologist, a therapist... [[Yes.]] ...who has repeatedly hosted various media, including the Wyborcza Gazeta, who is now fighting pedophilia so hard? His name was Samson. After all, he was a valued therapist, sometimes I listened to his comments or read his comments in various media. And what did it turn out to be? It turned out that he raped at least a dozen children, even two or three years old, who committed sexual acts against them. Yes? Authoritet, psychologist, therapist, publicist of Wyborcza gazety, mainstream media. So? [[Voice from the room: Archbishop...]] In a word, it shows that pedophilia... [[Voice from the hall: Everyone is equal to the law...]] [[Shh...]] ...is a phenomenon that does not concern one environment, and it is worth taking note of. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[There will be a debate, and then there will be a debate.]] And if someone says otherwise, it means that it is not necessarily about children, it is only more about politics, about using these, of course, shameful events that have occurred, to fight the whole Church and to refer these shameful events to all priests without exception. I'm gonna end up with my own experience. Since childhood I have been associated with the Church, I have met with dozens of priests, but I have never met, neither I nor my nearest surroundings, with behavior which was thus described in the film by the Sekielski brothers. This does not change the fact that I am all the more outraged by such behavior, the more I find these behaviors worthy of the greatest criticism. I believe that not only has great harm been done to these children and their parents because of the great trust which the priest naturally raises, but also the great harm caused to the vast majority of priests who, in a noble way and with great devotion, serve their faith, values, serve in faith to Jesus Christ, also serve Poland and serve it very well at various stages of history. That's why you have to brand such behavior, severely punish it, and that's why it's our government's intention to ensure that this kind of behavior doesn't go unpunished, doesn't avoid criminal judgment... It was us, not the Civic Platform or the ruling left in Poland before, but it was us, the Law and Justice and the United Right, who imposed a legal obligation on everyone, including the representatives of the Church, to inform each case of reliable information about pedophilia, which will come to the attention of every person. Each of us since 2017, since July 2017, is now legally obliged to provide such information to law enforcement authorities. Previously, it was purely a social obligation. And it was we who introduced this obligation, knowing, of course, that it would also apply to the ecclesiastical environments. And that's very good, because there can't be a discount here for anyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u207	Thank you very much, Minister. But, Minister, stay here, because there's a fairly long list of people who want to ask a question. I'll just read the formula. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Minister relating to this item on the agenda. I already know that there are people who want to ask such questions. You're welcome, Senator Rulewski's first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u208	Minister, so that we don't move sophismati, what the Senate is for, and what the government is for... Because it can be reversed: do you even need a government to write wrong laws that the Senate must reject or correct? Another point is whether these amendments are taken into account at all. Then I'd like to ask you in substance. You have said, and rightly so, that the law must not disperse with the expectations of a conscious or conscious public opinion. It's how you interpret a fact that is nationwide, but it takes place in a large area of prison, where 6,000 800 targets are available for the arrested. And this bill creates a new clientele. Only 6,000 of these are filled, which means there's a surplus, and 1/3 of the prisoners didn't report during those three years of government, where nothing should go to prison? Therefore, the question is: Do we increase the number of pending executions by increasing the prison clientele? And second question. Does the fact that you are sharpening the penalty, and in the explanatory statement you write that the penalty will be instead of rehabilitation, instead of prevention, mean that you are putting out a white flag in the fight against crime in Poland, which is not just about being convicted and stuck, but also about preventing, raising, perhaps forgiving? Thank you. [[What?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u209	Okay... Thank you very much. [[It's...]] Minister, three people, okay? Excuse me. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u210	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you spoke in your speech about the impact that public opinion has on the formulation of criminal policy, about how much support is available for concrete solutions and the severity of the penalty. I think you have to listen to the public. But I also think that if you ask me whether to impose the death penalty for the most serious crimes, it's probably a significant part of the public opinion. I want her to go along with it. And if you asked if we should pay smaller or higher taxes, most Poles would say smaller. [[You don't pay at all.]] Now, specifically, about the question. Well, you mentioned that you applied to pursue Polanski, to extradite to Poland... some very concrete action in the field of combating, I understand, pedophilia. I would like to ask you what steps you have taken, as the Attorney General, to use your powers, the authorities of the prosecutor's office to combat pedophilia more effectively in Polish reality, especially with pedophilia in the church. And do we need to increase penalties in order to be able to address this issue more effectively? Under the rule of the old criminal code that we are updating, was effective action and the fight against paedophile crime impossible?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u211	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u212	Minister, tell me why, when preparing such an important, so important, so wide-ranging amendment, you have resigned from the work of the authorities, the codification committee, and you have prepared a project which, well, required some amendments prepared on your knees. And another question: why do you, as a graduate of the Jagiellonian University, simply ignore the position of the authorities of criminal law of that university, who speak both of the unconstitutional form of acceptance of this proposal, which you should have and, consequently, only with some... What are the arguments behind that you yourself, of your own mind, so to speak, well, high function I understand that in an authoritative way, he evaluates unambiguous opinions, doctrines, concerning, for example...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u213	But, Senator, it's been over a minute and a half. Thank you very much. [[Then I'll be asking more questions.]] [[It doesn't make sense.]] We stick to the rules, all of us. [[Of course. I'm the one signing up for more questions. Because I have a few more.]] You're welcome to sign up. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u214	First of all... I'll answer you one at a time. Senator Rulewski said that the government is preparing laws that need to be amended. Mr. Senator, I think you've been a parliamentarian longer than I am, and I'm not short, but I've had a few terms behind me, and I've also played a leading role in the Senate, and in every term of my government, I've seen situations where amendments were tabled at the Senate stage, and no one at the time has made a plea that this is proof of errors. It was proof of continued legislative work. Would something happen if we did not agree to an important part of these amendments to the Penal Code? No, it wouldn't have happened. Because apart from certain, in fact, shortcomings in technical legislation which cause only a certain one, it can be said that there is a technical problem with the proper inclusion of individual provisions within the framework of a legislative act... Changes of substance which would have been necessary after the adoption of this law in the Sejm were not present. There have been and there are changes that arise from such political conditions, that listening to this debate that has been going on, the reasons for taking away excuses from people who, in bad faith, criticize these changes and mislead Poles. Because if the lie is repeated a hundred times, it scrolls through various media, so it's hard for me, as Minister of Justice, in any medium, to straighten it out. For these reasons, we have decided to introduce some of these amendments. I was just setting an example of this famous issue of getting a minor to have sexual relations. After all, there are no substantive reasons for this amendment. None. This act is and will continue to be punished. But in connection with the atmosphere that has been created around it, in connection with repeating a thousand times the lie, that we supposedly, through this change, eliminating this word or taking this kind of behavior into account in the current criminal code, lead to the impunity of pedophiles, we agreed to this amendment. She has no substantive justification, because this behavior, as I explained to you, refers to the outstanding Polish creator of the penal codification of the interwar period, Professor Makarewicz... Because of his concept, which was adopted in the article. 18 Penal Code, if I remember correctly, is still being punished, and this, on the basis of the change we have made, is even more severe, as aiding, which is an independent form of a widely understood cause, so to speak. This is not a case in a literal sense, but a form of phenomenal crime, i.e. it is through the inexhaustible character of the forbidden act, and by cooperating in the commission of this crime in such a phenomenal form. But here we have agreed, this is an example of such an amendment... There is also a purely technical amendment related to the withdrawal of counters. Is this amendment necessary? Would it result in such behaviour not being punished, as some media reported? Of course, no, they would be punished and only technical legislative considerations, which are linked to order, are in favour of not functioning in parallel with 2 standards, because from a legislative technical point of view it is simply unnecessary in the legal act. That's it. There would be no decriminalisation. This is another wave of false information and misinformation that has emerged. That's how I could discuss the amendment after the amendment. I'm going to refer to another example, the article. 212, who's part of it. This is the next shift we've pulled out of. Everyone without exception, the state probably also, heard such a narrative that the change we have introduced in the article. 212 of the criminal code, and this is a provision that deals with prosecution, leads to increased responsibility for these crimes and strikes journalistic environments. However, anyone who reads the change we have proposed will find out that we do not change the criminal sanctions that have so far threatened the crime, so we do not tighten the penalties, contrary to what anyone can hear in the media, and neither the comma nor the dot have changed the scope of the prosecution of the order. We didn't touch the matter of harshness or the scope of prosecution at all. We have touched on a completely different issue, connected with a certain gap that is currently in the law. Well, in the case of crimes prosecuted by public prosecutions, when the perpetrator is fabricating evidence to extort a favourable judgment, he is misleading, as it were, a fraud of the court, and this kind of behaviour is being prosecuted as a crime, prohibited and prosecuted. But if such behavior occurs on the basis of a trial of a private accusation, then if you look from the criminal side, it is not prohibited and is not prosecuted. Do you believe that this inconsistency is justified by anything? Is it possible in any way to deceive courts in a private complaint process to justify honesty, ethics? How can this be justified? Why should we let someone cheat the court so that someone can get a judgment unjust to the other side? But since this topic was so falsely presented in the public debate, i.e. I thought there was nothing to crush the copies. Let's put this thing off. Besides, I invited the journalistic community to meet after the adoption of this code, next week, and talk about the scope and purpose of the article. 212. But this is a separate discussion, this project did not touch it, and this amendment did not touch it either. This is another shift. What's the substantive error here? There is no substantive error here, there is only a reaction to a certain climate, a wave of false presentation to the public of the intention of the change which has been presented. I could keep talking like this. Who of you will show me here a substantive error that would significantly affect the application of this law, which was adopted in the Sejm? There is no such mistake, except, as I say, the technical corrections that have occurred. Yes, one change can be discussed, which I will tell you about, is the introduction of mandatory mandatory mandatory punishment for life in certain most drastic situations. That's something to discuss. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Strasbourg case-law, both in this case and in various other cases, can sometimes vary, the case-law is variable. It is not that it is accepted once and for all, and this is a canon that one has to stick to, that there is a constitution, a provision that guarantees that the caselaw will not change in this matter. I could give you many examples of the various cases that the Strasbourg caselaw has been evaluating and on which the case-laws agreed, and then they have completely reviewed their positions and allowed them to do so. We believe that we have the right to defend our stand also in Strasbourg and to convince the court there to change the case law. Why shouldn't we have the courage to fight intellectually for the rations we believe to be, if that's the case. The perpetrator, who had previously committed a cruel murder, was sentenced to life imprisonment, was released on parole early, because unfortunately, with this life sentence, he could have gone out and murdered again in a cruel way, e.g. A few kids murdered? Well, I think that as a state, as a party to the international community, we have the right to fight for a change in the line of case law. Other countries have such courage, they do it, so why should we feel worse? We can do this, and that's why we proposed this change. But since this debate has arisen, there are these arguments that we are breaking international standards, and unfortunately I do not have the possibility to appear, as I have already mentioned, in all the media, we are proposing a compromise solution. Let us give the courts the opportunity, optionality, so that they can use it if they think that the perpetrator is so dangerous and so demoralized, he has already committed such serious crimes, that almost certainly, if he ever gets out again, for example. He's gonna kill you. [[There's no...]] [[There's no such...]] Then the court will have the possibility of this kind of punishment. I move on to the issue of places and targets in prisons. There are about 10,000 places today, not 6,000 800, but as far as I can tell, if this includes these renovated places, about 10,000 vacant places in prisons. And I don't know why to worry about these dangerous rapists, pedophiles, organized members, mafia gangs of criminals who professionally commit numerous crimes, ransom kidnappers, robbers with a dangerous weapon, I don't see any reason to get upset and regret that they're going to be there. It's a good thing they're gonna get there. If they're in there, they don't hurt anyone. Let them sit there longer, I hope. That's what I think. [[But my question was...]] That's my view. If the senator thinks you should give them a chance, I respect that, but I just don't agree with you in principle. I believe that those depraved types who have already had a chance, who have not taken advantage of it, who have once again committed horrible crimes, who are hurting children once again, the criminalists or members of just organized criminal groups, should be treated much harder than this is happening today. At the outset, I referred to the case of Grudziądz, the case of a 9-year-old child. Ask the parents of this child what they think about criminal policy, if it would be worth it for this bandit, this paedophile, a criminal paedophile, to get 30 years, or good that he got nine years and got released... Sorry, he got a few years and got released, nine years old had a kid, and he got a few years for another pedophile act. I think it's okay if he got 30 years because he wouldn't rape any kid at the time. I also have good news for you as regards the penalty bets. Well, thanks to the great work, above all, Minister Jaki's... [[He's a professional.]] ...because it's his credit and it's worth telling the Minister here, giving him his dues... I don't hide that I was even a little skeptical about his concept when he came to me at the beginning of this government and said that he wanted to start a change in the functioning of prison by expanding the ability of prisoners to work. Well, we found penitentiaries in which about 30% The prisoners were working. We've increased by 100%. The number of prisoners working, we're building more halls... [[And who was running the bill? What do you think?]] This is the example that the prisoners are working today. If we're talking about rehabilitation, it's about rehabilitation in this way. If the prisoners are working, they may also pay alimony, fulfill certain obligations imposed on them by the judgments of the courts. And that's a very good solution. Prisoners are working today, we're building more halls, so they won't be wasting their time there if, of course, they're willing to work. A white flag in the fight against crime? I don't understand this question at all. What white flag in the fight against crime? The white flag in the fight against crime was characterized by those whom you asked Senator Zientarski, the creators of the 1997 Penal Code. In charge of Professor Zoll of this codification committee, which you asked so much about. Who, when there was the greatest wave of crime growth... [[But I didn't ask you that.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Shh...]] ...offered a code that drastically mitigated punishment, especially for the most serious criminal crimes. They're the ones who gave it to us. And what happened as a result of this code? Look at this. You can check the statistics That there has been a sharp increase in criminal crime, including the most serious crimes, murders, the activities of organized criminal groups. That's what happened most of the time. Earlier, just after 1990, there was amnesty, because we were so good for criminals, we said: let us give them a chance, etc., the poor will come out and in the atmosphere of freedom they will noblely build our new reality of free Poland. How did they build? Look at the statistics, look at the human injuries. The bandits were developing very well. But we're supposed to fight bandits, and we're supposed to take care of honest people. Bandits are to be afraid, and they can only be afraid of severe punishments, those that will hit their interests, which will deprive them of their ability to conduct criminal activities. Besides, we're also the ones who introduced the punishment in the form of an extended confiscation. Do you know what kind of assets were taken from criminals in the days of the Platform, your governments, what was the amount? 300 million. And do you know how much this is now? One million 300... [[Voice from the room: Billion...]] 1 billion 300... 1 billion $300 million. There's a difference, and there's a difference, because we're putting in tools. Poland was the last country of the European Union to impose an extended confiscation penalty. The first project was prepared by me, when I was Minister of Justice, in 2007 and then was thrown into the trash. Whose business did your government care about if he didn't want to impose an extended confiscation penalty, which was just hitting criminal groups, was taking away their meaning and purpose of action, the proceeds of the crime? Why did you protect them? [[Whose question was that? Whose question is this?]] In a word... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're putting up a white flag? [[And where are the unsubs?]] It was the Civic Platform's environment that put out the white flag because it created a green island, for example. for VAT thieves, bandits who robbed the Polish state. This way, we have money for 500+, which your leaders... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...with Mr. Tusk in charge, they said he wasn't and wouldn't be. Mr. Rostowski, Tusk, Mrs. Kopacz... After all, you remember these statements; they're on TV, you can see. They said there wasn't, and there won't be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] And all you had to do was introduce a solution to the fight against the VAT mafia and the money is there. And children have 500 zlotys, not bandits children. Was it worth it? It was worth it. It's not a white flag. The white flag was in your day. [[Get to the point.]] In our day, there is a determined fight against crime and this code is a continuation of our work in this area. We want to put bandits where they belong, we want them to fear, we want to isolate them, we want to punish them with justice, if they commit a serious crime... [[So everyone would be scared...]] ...and, of course, hit those who are the most dangerous. And the tears, the lamentation, the regret that they are sharpening the punishment. And for other crimes... Who's the whining over? Over those killers, the kidnappers for ransom and finger clippers? We hit them with these changes. What's there to think about? I think the case is zero-one. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u215	Gentlemen of the Senators, please stop... You're in line... [[Wait in line.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But, gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: There's no answer, just...]] Gentlemen, you're looking for answers to your questions, so don't say... [[The voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, and you will see to it that...]] I ask you to refrain from commenting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Once again, I ask you to refrain from commenting. Okay? [[The voice from the room: No, it's...]] Mr. Senator, please refrain from commenting! There'll be a discussion later, you can say whatever you want. Why are you bothering me? [[I just...]] Why are you bothering me? [[The Minister is well-known for speaking for hours without interruption. We know that. I don't want to interrupt.]] We can end this discussion, debate, questioning, since that's how you guys behave. A little culture, and culture is that you listen to others, not just yourself. [[Voice from the room: Can you answer?]] You're welcome, Minister. I hope you gentlemen don't mind. If they interfere, we'll intervene. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators...]] But that also shows the nature of your mentality, that mentality. I understand it more now. Thank you for your comments, because they also give us a lot to think about. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, what are our comments?]] I didn't give you the floor. Please... [[Please don't do this...]] I'm turning your mic off. [[It's not...]] You don't have a voice, I didn't give you a voice. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm sorry, you don't have a voice. You're welcome, Minister. I hope you can continue your speech in peace.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u216	Thank you very much. Well, I'm obliged to tell the truth, Dear Lords, and that the truth sometimes hurts and causes nervousness... Then don't blame me anymore. The facts are eloquent. I am sending you to these film materials with Donald Tusk, Mrs. Kopacz, the Minister of Finance of your government, see what they said, what happened, and what happened when we came to power. What does this have to do with the fight against crime and the VAT mob, the harshness of penalties? He's got a very basic one. I'm going back to Senator Rybicki's question about public opinion. Mr. Senator, I am not saying that public opinion should be regarded as a certain emancipation of the Sejm, the Senate and the Government and should be limited to the answers that can be obtained as part of the investigation of public opinion research centres that are available to us. However, public opinion is a very important space of dialogue between the representatives of the nation you are, a place to confront the courts and opinions that are falling here, with a certain expectation that can be captured in a meaningful way from scientific research of this public opinion or assessments of most Poles, which can somehow be moderated and drawn conclusions from them. I think it would be a bad thing. And usually, as history shows, it's not a good thing If in a democratic country where there is a democratic debate, the government and parliament completely ignore the clear and unambiguous expectations of the public. That is why I have allowed myself to make these expectations in terms of tightening up the fight against crime as one of many arguments, not the only one, supporting it with a number of arguments, which in my view are scientific in nature or in nature connected with life experience and logic, arguments indicating that this public opinion in this case seems to be more accurate in assessing the need for a more severe fight against the most serious crimes than sometimes elected people who try to ignore this voice, the voice of a society which, I believe, should represent and, in any event, take into account, to an important extent, as part of their work in Parliament. And that's it. That is why I referred to these studies, after all, with a whole range of other arguments which I think should convince them to fight pedophilia and tighten penalties. No, among others. you asked, and here's one argument, another, I'll give you today's laws aren't enough to fight paedophile crime. And I say that in my view they are not, because the assessment of the practice of justice, the practice of the courts shows that in the case of this type of really extremely repulsive crime more than 40%, almost 45% judgments in relation to the sexual exploitation of minors are suspended sentences. We all know what a suspended sentence is. After all, this is a purely symbolic sentence, which, in the case of many perpetrators, especially those who are corrupted, reckless, perverts of habit, perpetrators who do not break the law for the first time, is an honorable thing, an opportunity to boast: once again, I have been given, you can say, a distinction from the state and I am an even tougher thug, a bandit. Because that's how they treat it, for them, it's an increase in splendor if they're sentenced to another suspended sentence. They treat these judgments as such. Moreover, they laugh at them, and the worst part is that they often laugh in the eyes and in the face of victims as they leave the courtroom. I saw it myself once before, it was a long time ago, but this is the most up-to-date observation of the mother, who reported the tragic experience of raping her daughter, told her that the unsub had left the trial when he heard the suspended sentence, and laughed, caught his eyes on that mother and that child raped. And she said she felt like she had been raped by the Polish state for the second time. And that feeling of this woman is not an isolated feeling. Feel free to empathize with this woman and what she's experiencing in the trauma of her daughter, who was so treated by a thug, a bandit who, instead of a just sentence, heard a suspended sentence. I'm the one who thinks that every one of you sitting here would feel that way. I don't want to appeal to your feelings anymore, like it's about any of your loved ones. The feeling that this is a granda until you want to hit the table with your fist. Over 40%, almost 45% judgments for sexual exploitation in Poland, judgments of today's courts, those are suspended sentences. And that's why we're tightening it up, which is why we're increasing the lower limits, especially when we're dealing with a victim who has, for example, a victim. Seven years, under seven, with some little kid. Even 2-, 3-year-old children are raped, even annual rapes occur. Sorry about the word, you have to say that the bastard raped the drugs and maimed the baby because he just wanted to satisfy his sick lusts in this way. And why shouldn't we tighten the sentence and guarantee that this guy's been in jail for as long as possible so he can't rape another kid? I think it is right that it is precisely the need to fight this most violent and dangerous crime effectively. I think it is. It's not a question of politics, it's a question of my beliefs. And you know me, I've been consistent in this for years. Senator Zientarski, who left, asked about the codification committee. [[You haven't answered the part of my question about what steps you've taken as Attorney General...]] Uh-huh.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u217	But, Senator, you can ask the second question. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Okay...]] ... really behave in accordance with the rules of procedure and... [[I'm gonna ask you a question.]] ...to report when you get the vote. Well, we have to keep an eye on the order. [[As the Attorney General...]] Order has to be. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u218	As Attorney General And I will add that, because these functions, thanks to our legislative decision, are connected with each other, I have taken a number of steps to change this situation. No, among others. I have been the initiator, together with the President, of legal solutions obliging everyone, including everyone present in this Chamber, to inform law enforcement authorities of any fact of taking reliable information indicating a paedophile crime. It wasn't banned before... That's, among other things. I initiated this kind of work. I stress: together with President Andrzej Duda, because it was directly his project, but I was the initiator of changes to the 2017 Act, which introduced the possibility of imposing a lifetime ban on working with children, which was adopted. The Civic Platform abstained at the time, because it was a ban linked to this change introducing records of paedophiles. I also consider pedophile records to be a good change, which is the result of ideas... I do not hide that I was their initiator under Polish law. But in addition to legal changes, I also act as a prosecutor general and in this area many months ago I issued guidelines to prosecutors, obliging them to, for example, in the case of priests, because this is also what you asked directly, each time you inform, when the proceedings are initiated, when it comes to our knowledge, the proper ecclesiastical authority is different churches, not only the Catholic Church, about the fact that this kind of sexual act is being conducted. Because sometimes the hierarchical environment in the church didn't know that a priest was a paedophile. I know that there are already a number of criminal proceedings in progress from the notices of the church party, which had not been done before, as a result of the changes made by this parliament to the Polish penal code, paedophile actions which could have been related to the activities of clergymen. So my actions are very clear and eloquent. I also made a number of specific interventions in the case of drastic crimes, paedophile crimes. This applies not only to ecclesiastical environments. E.g. In Pomerania there was a drastic issue of sexual exploitation by a mother's concierge of 2 boys who were abused and raped in all possible ways, and their bones were crushed, you can say, on each episode, from legs to arms and spine. One of these children miraculously managed to save his life. The prosecution has qualified this act. It was months ago, maybe a year ago, I think it happened in Drawsk Pomorskie. As a simple beat-up... well, maybe not just a beat-up, but after analysis, I recommended that this event be classified as an attempted murder with particular cruelty. The consequences for these perpetrators, because also for the mother who tolerated such behavior, are incomparably different from those who would have met the perpetrators if I hadn't intervened. There are very, very many individual cases in which I intervened when it comes to paedophile crimes. It can be recreated as a result of an analysis of the actions of the National Public Prosecutor's Office, which I supervise and which I always feel very sensitive about, because I'm sensitive. It doesn't matter to me who the perpetrator is. As for Mr. Zientarski's question and the codification committee, I have already referred to this. Well, the codification committee led by Professor. Zollem embodied, one might say, a vision of criminal law, which is based on a liberal axiom that assumes giving a criminal a chance regardless of how serious a criminal he would commit. Well, that's a point of view that completely conflicts with my view of the world and the fight against crime. It's not like we're in a vacuum when it comes to the scientific world, because it's been a long time since that argument. It also takes place in the Polish science of criminal law. I can even mention the outstanding nestors of Polish criminal law and the school of criminal law, such as Prof. Władysław Mącior, Prof. Tyszkiewicz, the late Ombudsman of the civil rights of Dr. Kochanowski, but also many professors of the law of the new generation who express a different view from the opinion of this dominant But we have believed and consistently believe that these are wrong beliefs, and the fight against VAT crime, from which I started here, is the best example of how wrong are the claims that the punishment does not have to be severe, but must be inevitable. Of course, it's not. It must be and inevitable, and properly strict back to what I said. I guess that's it for the answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u219	Okay, thank you, Minister. Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u220	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have such a question... [[I can't hear you.]] [[No, I can hear you.]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] It's already on. Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have such a fundamental question: what about false accusations? Because a falsely accused person is also painfully hurt. Why aren't these people defending themselves? Why is it that he who falsely accuses of a deed will not suffer the punishment attributed to the deed he falsely accuses of? I recently read that in the United States, for 100 accusations of pedophilia, mostly priest accusations, only 2 were true, and the others were prepared. Why don't you finally do that that if you falsely accuse me of a crime that was ten years ago... that he would have charged what he accused, if he had proven himself, attributed... Is there anything on this subject taken into account in this code? Is that the idea of bringing something like this in? Well, that's a really big plague, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u221	Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, how...]] Maybe we can group... [[Oh, I see.]] Do you want one at a time? [[No, you're welcome, by all means.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u222	Minister, I don't know if you've seen a Sekielski film... [[Yes.]] You've been watching. There is a basic problem shown, of course, in the church, with the disclosure of the perpetrators and the cover-up of the perpetrators, etc. Tell me why you didn't offer to increase the level of punishment and increase the length of time for statute for those who covered for the perpetrators, to move them to other places, to other parishes, etc. That's my first question. The second question concerns the results of the prosecution's actions. Tell me: how many cases of pedophilia in the last 10 years, how many cases of paedophilia have there been concerning clergymen, and has a clergyman received the highest degree of punishment foreseen in the code? He's up to 15 years for rape, up to 12 years for other sexual acts. Were there any cases in which the clergy received the highest degree of punishment?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Bonisławski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u224	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. We're celebrating the 100th anniversary of independence here, and I have a question for you. When we regained our independence, they were invited to create codes for people of authority. I don't know if there was a code committee working right now, some sort of specialist. Well, we don't know. At such an express rate the whole operation was carried out in the Sejm, that as a result we have, if I have calculated correctly, 68 amendments - 41 is with us and 27 was in the Sejm. Doesn't this short trial time over four years of your business seem like some kind of deviation from what you're saying here that you cared about, and so on.? Wasn't there time to hire people with authority not to repeat what was in the case of IPN, about which we also took very short notice? That's the first question. The second question is: isn't it paradoxical that at the head of the committee that was investigating and you are talking so much about the perpetrators of unworthy acts related to the exploitation of minors, the man who led to the release of a paedophile? I don't think he'd be very interested in what you're talking about today. Is the lengthening of the penalties that we are talking about here such a solid extension based on some kind of penitentiary expense? I'm asking you this because it's gonna put a pretty big financial obligation on society, I think. Well, extending punishments or tightenings...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u225	But, Mr. Senator, the questions have already been asked... [[Oh, right... thank you.]] You're already commenting. Excuse me. Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u226	Thank you very much. The senator's first question was about false accusations, which also happen in cases related to paedophile crime. Dear people, like the world, false accusations, lies and acts of vile manipulation have happened, have happened forever, in every area of life. Unfortunately, it cannot be said, although I would like to say that it is free from them, from the influence of the evil temptations of the justice system. Lawyers are even talking about the fact that for some time now, when there is a marital conflict, more and more often it appears as an argument. In particular, when marriages are divided into large emotions about the dispute over wealth, about children An argument, e.g. a paedophile who does not always find a strong attachment to the evidence, but is always a nuclear weapon that makes a striking impression and can influence the decisions of the ruling court, e.g. the presence of children with one of the parties to the proceedings. Well, cynicism and low motives can sometimes inspire people who use accusations to accuse others of committing crimes. This is not just about paedophile crimes, but in the case of paedophile crimes it is perhaps particularly moving and hurtful for falsely accused persons. The problem is that often such events and behaviours reported by one party do not have strong evidence to support them. It's often a word against a word. In such cases, the prosecution is always required to seek all possible objective evidence, which it does in every procedure, to appoint experts who must carry out their assessments on the basis of sound reasoning, giving faith or not to give faith to the account of one of the persons who makes such a claim. Let me give you an example of a case I know of. An adult homosexual accused politicians of behavior... of sexual assault. There were two expert psychologists and they both stood in opposite positions on the credibility of this possible victim's account. At the end of the day, the D.A.'s office It was already during the reign of the Civic Platform, and it gave faith to the expert who questioned the credibility of the alleged or actual victim. Incidentally, the victim is the same person who accuses the Fr. Jankowski in one of the... He is shown as the one who documents the behaviour of Fr. Jankowski I don't want to decide if it's real or not, at this point, it's not my role. It shows that he has become a victim of the priest's actions. In the case of prosecution proceedings during the rule of law of the Civic Platform, it has been found to be unbelievable in the description of an incident attributed to sexual violence by politicians. I can't rule out that this decision of the D.A.'s office was an accurate and true decision, because it actually happens that someone, wanting to force a benefit, to force money, to force some other advantage he's hoping for, is falsely accusing another person. Especially in a criminal environment, this is a well - known way to benefit from some benefits, procedural benefits associated with the conduct of false accusations of others, or benefits associated with any other calculation. Later in the course of the proceedings it turns out that relations e.g. The coroner's witnesses have seen this problem often constitute pure confabulation and can actually lead to false accusation of an accidental person, although at first glance they seem to be very specific, based on circumstances, an event. Unfortunately, the experience of law enforcement authorities not only Polish, but also around the world, shows that it is often the case that such denominations are not based on facts, and are the result of low motives, intentions of people who decide to make such statements. This applies especially to people in the criminal environment. I'll refer to the senator's words here. Indeed, some percentage of cases reported to law enforcement authorities in connection with paedophile crimes are certainly related to false accusations. Thus, the great role of law enforcement and experts in the conduct of fair proceedings, also the role of not sometimes succumbing to the pressure of the media, which tends to resolve matters clearly without entering the merit, without examining whether a given event actually took place. I do not wish to be misunderstood, for there is no doubt that such events have often occurred, as evidenced by the film by the Sekielski brothers, these paedophiles' actions really took place. They were not disclosed to law enforcement authorities and there was real abuse of children, in this case by priests. But there is no doubt that there is a very high risk of false prosecution and that this problem is a problem facing the entire justice system. And sometimes such a expectation of the media, which does not wait to investigate retail cases, which do not follow the principle of presumption of innocence, which already know and prejudice, does not help to explain often very sensitive and criminally difficult cases. There's no prescription for this kind of situation here. The only answer may be, I stress, careful conduct by experienced investigators, eating experienced experts and reaching out, as far as possible, for objective evidence - sometimes so, in the form of recordings or other documents, e.g. medically, when there is drastic damage, mutilation of the child during sexual abuse. Well, here's the evidence that leaves no doubt and lets you press charges. However, there is also an area of uncertainty, and it is not always fate, as well as the role of the prosecutor or court in such matters, that is easy and simple to take into account also the commitment to uphold any procedural guarantees of a potential suspect, including the presumption of innocence I have mentioned, and to explain any unexplainable doubts in favour of the accused. Hence, these are often difficult matters. [[Thank you... yet? Good.]] Movies... As far as covering the perpetrators in the context of the Sekielski Brothers' film is concerned, however, I would like to point out to you that this film - of course an important one that causes a certain public debate - shows events that have taken place over decades. Three of these priests, as I recall, committed their actions in the years you may have been in prison, Senator, in the 1980s. I don't know if you... The regime was already milder, in any case not so harsh. We must remember that sometimes the film shows a picture, breaking this perspective of time, but these events took place in a long time horizon. General Jaruzelski still ruled in Poland. Please? [[1 event.]] Three events, three priests. I'm the Attorney General, and I have access to the case file. Three. It's worth saying. I don't have the names of these priests right now, but I can send them to you and you'll find out. [[But will you send it? Because I have to write it down.]] Yes, sir, I will. I'll send the names of the priests who committed these acts in the 1980s. One of these priests - it's about the chaplain of President Wałęsa - it's already in the '90s... isn't it? According to the canons of international law, civilized law, which also binds us, unfortunately or steths - these are canons of civilization developed by humanity and the legal culture that we respect, because we are part of it - criminal law cannot act backwards. So even if we wanted to, we are not able to return to matters that have expired because the international commitment and the Polish constitution, which, as I know, is important to all of you, do not allow it. So, to accuse the prosecution that we are not investigating cases that have expired, or are the result of ignorance that these actions have expired, or are, however, very far from being demagogued and manipulated, because the prosecutor, by instigating proceedings in this case and knowing that the case has expired, would expose himself to the charges in the article. 231 criminal code. And in cases that have not expired, of course, such conduct may and should be carried out. I've set up a team to analyze things related to this film. I don't think two of these cases -- I don't want to prejudice right now because I don't have a report on me -- and I'm sure some of these cases are the subject of criminal review, because they can still be evaluated, because they probably haven't been statute of limitations. One is for sure - that I can say right now. But I'll send you the details, if you'll allow the marshal, the senator, so you'll have full knowledge of the prosecutor's files. Everything can be precisely determined - which cases have expired and which are not and can be taken. I know that there is one case there, which shows the validity of what we are proposing here, i.e. tightening up criminal policy. You're convicted there at a time when I was the Attorney General and Minister of Justice for a paedophile crime, unfortunately a very low sentence. During the rule of the Civic Platform, in 2012, if I remember correctly, he committed a paedophile crime, was caught red-handed in a hotel with a minor. What does that show? That if he were severely punished, he wouldn't be in a hotel, he'd be in jail. Would it be beneficial for this child or not? I think the answer is... [[Simple.]] ...simple. When it comes to the number of cases against clergymen and the number of cases of sexual nature in general, I will send you the exact data, and I will show you how it has been over 10 years. I don't have full statistics right now. The number of cases taken during the period since I am the Attorney General, I refer to my memory, I speak from the head of the head, is higher than in previous years, but it is not a very striking number. I'm talking about the number of cases that are being handled. More are being conducted, but not much more. As for the people with authority who prepared the penal code, Mr. Senator... [[If I may remind you that I have asked again, Mr. Marshal, whether there has been a case of an upper limit sentence in the case of paedophile priests.]] I'm happy to answer that question, but I just need to reach for the statistics. I don't have that kind of knowledge right now, so I don't want to mislead your senator. [[That question goes beyond the scope of the law. But okay, the minister will send it.]] As soon as... [[Good. The Minister will even hand this over to me, and I've written about three issues for Mr. Marshal. You're welcome.]] I can say that, unfortunately, it is very, very rare for courts to give judgments in any case that are approaching high risk thresholds. This applies to all crimes, including outrageous, drastic crimes, crimes linked to the assassination of customs, sexual freedom, even rape crimes with particular cruelty. That is why the proposal I am proposing here significantly increases the lower limits of threats, because unfortunately, courts are concentrated around them by issuing their judgments. The courts generally rule on penalties within their lower limits. This is a sad assessment of the practice of the Polish judiciary. The answer to it is this change which will force the courts to make judgments by definition, at the very beginning, at the entrance to the room much stricter. In the United States there is even more narrowing down, the possibility of a court decision is even more limited. Courts have much less opportunity to balance criminal threats for a specific crime. Sometimes they are clearly defined. The Polish constitution, according to the case law of the Constitutional Court, definitely does not allow such a solution. When it comes to people with authority who would create a criminal code, I can say that. The 1997 Penal Code was definitely created by people whom formally no one in authority can refuse, professors of Polish universities with Prof. Zoll at the head. However, this does not change the fact that they have not been spared from the very many substantive errors which were identified after the implementation of this code. And the fact that pointing out errors was not the result of merely over-imaginary of critics and aversion to authors confirms the fact that over the years the criminal code has been amended several times precisely because of the justification for errors and shortcomings that have been captured by practice, by courts and prosecutors, because criminals have managed to escape responsibility through the weaknesses of law and the gaps that have been left in criminal law. And they left them, it would seem, outstanding representatives of science, experts of criminal law in Poland with Prof. Zoll at the head. This code was not only mild, liberal and, in this sense, flawed in the response to the most brutal crime, but also full of substantive errors, gaps and flaws, as evidenced by the numerous amendments that have been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u227	Thank you. Senator Alicia the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u228	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask you about a matter that we are not talking about, although we have been debating for a few hours, namely the tightening of penalties against minors who will be tried as adults. Is there any system planned to specially rehabilitate them or any therapy? Of course, we are talking about those minors who commit the most serious crimes. Will they also be subject to a record of maximum punishment, 30 years, and life imprisonment? That's my first question. The second is also about serious crimes. Can the Minister tell you how many times it has happened that the same person has been sentenced twice to life imprisonment? Does it happen at all, or hasn't it happened? I'm asking because there's a record that people who've been sentenced twice to life imprisonment won't be able to apply for a conditional early release. Is this about the same type of crime, or can this punishment be about different crimes? [[Okay, thank you...]] And the last question, the easing and the electronic surveillance system. Is the issue of interruptions in the execution of penalties and so-called. Does the wristband apply only to those who have convictions up to 1 year and 6 months or to those who are convicted of other convictions? I'm talking about those who, during the break, will be able to hang out with that armband in the civilian world, so to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u229	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u230	Thank you. I have a question for you, and I'm asking you for a quick answer. For me, the reason is, for example. tightening penalties, a very important justification, was the increase in crime. I would like to ask if, over the past few years, when you are Minister of Justice, we are dealing with the fact that crime is increasing or maybe it is decreasing. Maybe not even over the years, but over the years. The second question concerns the film by the Sekielski brothers. I've seen it too. I would like to ask if, after this film, the D.A.'s office has taken action to prevent a possible I'm not saying that it was something like that, so maybe it was a math of destroying documents or something? Have you applied such measures? Because, as we know, in the case of a woman who, I don't know, with a rainbow... That's when you came in at 6:00 a.m.... [[At 7:00 p.m.]] [[Voice from the room: 7:00 p.m.]] At 7:00, yeah. Thank you. I forgot. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Senator, thank you very much, because right now...]] Yes. [[Another one?]] I'll finish, yes, yes. I'd like to ask because it bothers me... There was a scene in that movie where you take an oath that a person wouldn't reveal... [[But, Senator, I'm sorry...]] But it's important. [[It really doesn't apply to this bill or, excuse me, Minister. Thank you very much...]] I'm just gonna finish, I'm sorry, I'm just gonna finish. [[Okay, finish it, but... Minister, you don't have to answer about the vows.]] Good. There was a situation... [[Yeah, 'cause we're not talking about the movie. We can meet later and talk about the movie, but this isn't where we should talk about it.]] I understand, but there was a situation that looked like an attempt to hide a crime. Is there any action in this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u231	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski is not here. If he comes, he'll ask a question. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u232	Now, I'm going back to the question that you, I would say, didn't elegantly throw away, and that question was: how are you going to deal with the effectiveness of the punishments that have already been imposed and those that are undoubtedly going to be judged on a larger scale and in view of the kind of greater prison potential, since, for today, it is known that in a large prison district of 6,000 100 prisoners, 2,000 157 have not been reported... I'm talking about the categories of prisoners you've been talking about with concern and rightfully, from VAT to criminals, assassins. More than that, these prisoners are hiding, committing further crimes. Say something about it. My second question, Mr. Marshal, concerns a firm, credible response to the case that you raised and developed, Senator Hare. Is the surveillance system, whose case is also raised in this bill, which we all agree on and ask for more, taken over by a private company, already working? If it works, then why did the courts in Bydgoszcz adjudicating on maintenance cases, on which you rightly took the initiative, have ruled exactly 0 judgments ordering SDE against people who have refused alimony? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u233	Now. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u234	Sure, thank you very much. Senator Hare asked if minors were being treated harder. In general, we do not change much about juvenile delinquency. However, we are amending the fact that minors who have already responded to the rules set out in the Penal Code and after 15 years will once again commit one of the acts mentioned in the article. 10 §2 of the criminal code, i.e. the most serious crimes that are included in the catalogue... Well, that kind of behavior shows that previous educational measures have failed, and there's no point. Here we refer to a certain experience of life, again reaching for the rehabilitation and educational tools that burned on the pan, one can say, which in this case turned out to be inefficient and inefficient. Therefore, only in such cases do we propose to change In addition, it is subject to additional conditions. . which causes minors to comply with the general principles set out in the Criminal Code, but we leave a provision which says that such minors should be treated more gently, i.e. a penalty of no more than 2/3 of the threat for the offence in question. These types of elements, including rehabilitation, are at the top of the line in terms of penalties, and this is different in terms of penalties directives than in the case of adult offenders. That's point one. As for the perpetrator of the second sentence of life imprisonment, whether or not such cases have taken place, I am not going to answer the senator right now whether such cases have taken place. But I can assure you that there have been situations where the perpetrators of the murder were released and murdered again. And that's a lot of things. Such cases show a wrong criminal policy against corrupt perpetrators, murderers, who have shown the wrongness of their behavior and a great chance to return to the course of crime, including this violent, violent crime directed against life and health. And that's the kind of thing that's missing. So this solution, which we have proposed here, assumed a drastic situation, that the perpetrator sentenced to life imprisonment, which according to Polish law must be used as a more relative... During its term of office, when the perpetrator was convicted, he has the opportunity to apply for conditional early release after 25 years of imprisonment. If he committed crimes, murders, then the court would have had its hands tied and would have had to file a life sentence, but we gave up such a solution in connection with the discussion that took place, and we proposed only an optional possibility of imposing a life sentence. With regard to electronic monitoring, i.e. those electronic bracelets that we have introduced, I can say with satisfaction that when in 2000 I was an advisor to the holy memory of Mr Lech Kaczynski, together with Mr Kochanowski, we started a debate on this electronic monitoring in general, referring to the British experience with which Dr Kochanowski got acquainted at the time, and that's where it all started. Today, this system is getting better and better. When I became Minister of Justice... As a result of failed changes to the criminal codes introduced by the Civic Platform within a month, only 4 people were sentenced to punishment in these electronic monitoring rigors, i.e. electronic rings. Today it looks completely different, because it's a few hundred such convictions. We want to extend this, not only by extending the catalogue of convicted persons so that they are not only sentenced to a year, but also for a year and a half imprisonment for these minor crimes, but also by introducing what the senator asks about the possibility of applying this measure in the case of persons who are going on a penalty break. They will remain under electronic surveillance so that they can be followed, where they go, what they do. This amendment, which we have submitted to you, contains a catalogue of cases where we introduce a mandatory catalogue of cases where this criminal measure must be decided This applies, for example, to violent paedophile crimes and where it is possible to rule, in certain situations, on an optional basis, that criminal measure. We are convinced that this is a very good solution. It works great. This system is expanding. We are pleased with the current state of play of the Prison Service in monitoring the entire process. We have decided here to take responsibility for state institutions, namely the Prison Service, from a private company that did this. We believe that this is for the benefit of the system. About the brother movie... [[Voice from the room: Height...]] The senator asked about the increase in crime. In Poland, when it comes to paedophile crime, it is possible to discuss whether there is an increase. I'm sure you can... [[I'm sorry, I wasn't asking about paedophiles. I was asking about paedophiles in general.]] Okay, I understand, but I'm responding to paedophile crime, because this matter is primarily about the presentation and the discussion that's going on. Well, as far as paedophile crime is concerned, there is certainly an increase in detection of this type of crime, which translates statistically into figures indicating an increase in this type of crime. Just remember that police statistics don't reflect the real level of crime, because they reflect the real level of cases that are known and registered in law enforcement. And what is the real level of crime, much more talk, better inform victimization research, that is, the investigation of victims of crime. Such studies were conducted on a large scale by the Institute of Justice at the time. These tests haven't been carried out lately. It is from these studies that we know that in Poland, when they were conducted, more than 80% of rape crimes were sexual crimes to the detriment of women. It did not go to law enforcement knowledge at all, i.e. women anonymously asked whether they were victims, e.g. rape confirmed such an event, but at the same time informed them that they did not want to go to the police or the prosecution's office, justifying it with a lot of conviction, lack of faith that the punishment that will be imposed on the perpetrator would be an adequate, just punishment, giving them a sense of justice and security. And they were right to think so, because in the vast majority of cases involving this type of crime ended in suspended sentences. Thus, when it comes to such a real photograph of the state of crime in Poland, it will only be possible to talk about it in scientific terms if and only if it is carried out once again on a large scale, on a sufficiently large sample of victimizational research. Today, when we look at police statistics, we can talk about a drop in crime, consistently progressing in most areas of criminal activity. But please bear in mind that such proposals are also related to the demographic situation, because criminal activity, when it comes to committing serious crimes, is the greatest in the case of younger yearbooks, younger criminals, perpetrators, with the age of the perpetrators of many crimes is decreasing. Today there are changes in the demographic structure in Poland, not to mention that many members of organized criminal groups, dangerous perpetrators emigrated and committed crimes not only in the territory of the Republic of Poland, but also in other countries of the European Union. This does not change the fact that when a serious crime occurs, it should be punished fairly. This does not change the fact that if we are dealing with just one pedophile, it should be effectively isolated. This does not change the fact that, since even in certain categories there has been a drop in crime, we should make this drop even bigger, because the rule is that if a bandit, especially one of the habits that commits crimes, is in prison, then the number of crimes that would have been reported will not function in the police statistical area, but also important People will not become victims as a result of their criminal activity. This is a great plus to an effective and strict criminal policy. A film by the Sekielski brothers about math... I would like to draw your attention to this I've already told you about it. The fact that most of these events, in any case a significant part of these events described in the film by the Sekielski brothers, relate to acts that have expired and which are not and cannot be the subject of the prosecution's work. This information is lacking because some of the political environments produce a false image, indicating that the prosecution did not want to prosecute the perpetrators of events that took place at least 40 years ago. The D.A. can't go after him. If she was chasing, specific prosecutors would be subject to criminal liability. These are the rules of the game, written not only in the Polish Constitution, but also in our international obligations. The law doesn't work backwards. If the case has expired, we can't take it back. However, in other cases, those that haven't expired, as far as I know, there are proceedings going on. In any case, I have set up a team in the National Public Prosecutor's Office, which has carefully analysed each of these cases. I've already promised Senator Borusewicz to send you information about the effects of this team's work, so the senator can take a look at this. That is, with regard to the actions of law enforcement authorities that were possible and have yet to be taken on the basis of this film material. [[Thank you. Excuse me, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u235	But just to clarify, the next question in the next order.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u236	Just clarify, yes. There's still the vows. Well, that concerns the current situation. It was recorded on the tape... there was an oath taken that the victim wouldn't tell anyone what happened when he left the room. There was a scene in that movie. Is there any way you can relate to that? Well, it's about the current situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u237	If you'd like, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u238	Such oaths or some kind of pressure on individuals have no legal meaning, in such a way as to effectively induce such persons not to be informed of law enforcement or not to testify. In turn, whether such an event has legal significance depends on whether the act concerned can, after being made public, produce consequences only in the area of moral-eth evaluation of the man who committed the crime, or may trigger the commission of law enforcement authorities and the entire machine of the justice system. These are two different situations. If the case has expired, it is unfortunately indifferent to commit an oath or other forms of pressure to conceal such conduct from the point of view of the law. This is because criminal law in such a case cannot react to acts that have expired. I'm trying to be very clear about this. If the case has not expired, then, of course, such a case can be investigated, and should be examined, in order to try to influence the course of proceedings and the math of the case. As to the conclusions of the prosecution team you asked, the senator will get an answer in writing, so please be patient. I don't have this report right now, and I didn't have it because we didn't assume that we were gonna be discussing specific proceedings, prosecutions, just codifying the criminal code. As for the senator's question about the punishment of the defendants, once again... You said the unsubs didn't report. The unsubs don't report for all kinds of reasons. Some of these reasons are justified, they are related to treatment, there are cases related to the court's agreement to suspend punishment. So there are various reasons for not reporting. Of course, there are also cases where the perpetrator ignores the legal obligation on him. In view of such situations, the Polish State is obliged to act and act, as far as I know, in recent years more effectively than in past years. Thus, the situation is improving in this respect, not making it worse. So that I have good information for you. As far as the electronic surveillance system is concerned, this is where the senator asked, I answered, I don't want to repeat myself. It will operate not only in the field of matters until a year and a half, but also, if you pass this law, for a year and a half. Thanks to this change that we are working on here today, it will also be possible to apply this system to the perpetrators who are going on breaks. This is very important. To make dangerous criminals going out on a break, e.g. The purpose of the treatment, the operation, were under constant electronic scrutiny. This system will perform its function much better here. As far as alimony is concerned in the Bydgoszcz district, as I understand your senator, it is difficult for me to refer at the moment to the case law of the courts there, but it may be so... Please remember that... [[Yeah, it's just...]] I'll check it out, if you don't mind. Please remember that the judges are not bound. I'm often accused of having too much influence on the courts. In this respect, we organize trainings, discussions with judges and try to convince them of the need for such measures against perpetrators, to whom there is no reason for the electronic ring system to be ineffective. I mean, it's the perpetrators of maintenance crimes. If they're convicted, if they are, if they're sitting They are absolutely the first category to be covered by this type of scheme. I know it looks different in different courts, it's true. I don't know what it's like in the district you're talking about. If that's what you say it is, I reserve it because I don't have that knowledge. Unfortunately, this is not a good sign of these judges. The D.A.... [[Zero, zero surveillance.]] I see. The D.A. can't force a judge to settle a specific case. We give the courts the opportunity. [[Mr. Marshal, can you give us...]] We can't force... [[Mr. Senator, you don't have a voice.]] We can't force a judge to take measures... Moreover, sometimes we have reason to believe that certain behaviours in certain courts But I don't want to generalize it because of low motives and bad will. The testing of changes that are currently being implemented in the judiciary, and such an Italian strike, the obstruction in various areas of judicial activity takes place, happens. But I would like to believe that this is not related to what you are talking about, Senator, with this kind of low motivation and low motives.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u239	Now you're asking Senator Zientarski a question. [[I have to-- I have a question--]] Mr. Senator, please subscribe to the question. Then you'll have the floor. Senator Zientarski...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u240	Well, that's not a question, but... It's a request to the Minister to give in writing information about the functioning of the SDE in Poland in 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u241	The Minister accepts this commitment?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u242	Yes, sir. Yes, sir. I can only say in general that this system works a lot better than it was during the Civil Platform's reign. Because, like I said... [[Oh, we know that, we know that...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[They know.]] ...when we came, every month... [[We know, we know.]] Ladies and gentlemen... You know? [[Ladies and gentlemen, please...]] I'm glad you know. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Self-criticism is always desirable and must be accepted with respect and appreciation. The fact is, when I came, as I said, four cases were adjourned a month, and today it changed radically. [[A voice from the room: Well, that's great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u243	Now you're asking Senator Zientarski a question. But before you ask a question, Senator... [[Yes. Thank you very much, Mr...]] ...let me make an appeal to all of you. I think the Minister has been responding for two hours with a piece. If we want him to still have the strength to answer the questions, ask the questions as much as possible. Then there will be more time for answers. You're welcome, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, those wishing not to be harmed.]] We'll see. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u244	I, Mr. Marshal, repeat the question. And my question can be answered in a minute. And the Minister answers for 15 minutes on average and doesn't answer the question. That's where... [[Ask me a question.]] And that's why I'm repeating the question. If I don't get an answer, I'm definitely not gonna ask another one. Minister, I know the reason why you, as Professor Zoll's former student, do not have him at all. And I understand... [[But it's not a matter of this bill.]] [[Oh, come on!]] ...and I understand... But I'll finish the question. And I understand the general general, I emphasize, not only your master's complex of knowledge in relation to the knowledge of your professor. It's normal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's the way it is. I've got one too... I've got one too... But I asked... [[Mr. Marshal, this is an abuse of the rules. You can't do that.]] ...why you didn't set up a codification committee, Minister. You didn't take over the commission of Professor Zoll, the previous one, but you didn't set up your own So why didn't you set up a codification commission to create criminal law? What if... Well, you didn't. I mean, why? And I'm asking you what authorities of criminal law have consulted this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u245	The next question will be... [[Mr. Marshal, I repeat here... this is insulting the Minister, this is not right.]] Mr. Senator, Senator Zientarski has corrected his question, but he has not corrected it... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Then I ask you not to speak. [[But this...]] Mr. Senator, don't comment. Stick to the formula. [[Of course.]] You asked me a question, and I'll answer it. And then everything will go smoothly. Next is Senator Rybicki, who is also waiting for a chance to ask a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u246	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister... [[Intimately.]] ...I hope I overheard you say this: unfortunately, we are bound by civilized law. That's what you put in your statement. [[No, unfortunately, that's what I said. I'm gonna take care of it.]] You said Minister Sadly, yes. [[It was a bunch of shit, I'm afraid. And consider it a rhetorical statement. 'Cause on the one hand, you'd want to race pedophiles...]] The Minister will answer in a moment, but that's how it sounded... [[Yeah, yeah.]] ...and that's probably the protocol. Minister, I would like to ask you whether the Public Prosecutor's Office will meet the task of combating a widely understood pedophilia in relation to the draft establishment of a special state commission to address this issue. This was supported by the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński He said he would support such a project. Don't you think that this is a kind of vote of distrust towards the institutions of the state, in particular the prosecutor's office, who is unable to deal with this issue when a special committee has to deal with it in this regard? What is your opinion on the plans to set up this committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u247	And the last question in this series Ask them briefly, too. It belongs to you, Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please. [[Oh, oh! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions for the Minister. First. In 2013, in my statement, I asked for a list showing how many people are legally convicted of paedophile crimes crashing into competitions. That's the answer I got. It showed that over 1 000 400 people who were convicted legally were a clergyman. Is there any current statistics in the resort that would include that? If not, I would ask for a written reply. Second question. Tell me... Because I was shocked to learn that the average penalty for paedophile acts is 2 years, 54% of which the final sentences were suspended. What was involved in the assessment of the Ministry of Justice in this kind of case law of the general courts in relation to this disgusting crime? Thank you. [[That's what the minister said today.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u249	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u250	So, yeah, about the electronic surveillance system, I'm not gonna repeat myself. I would like to assure you that it works perfectly, and I am very satisfied with this because I was one of the initiators, alongside the sacred memory of Dr Kochanowski, the introduction to the Polish system of this solution. As far as authority is concerned, the senator left when I answered, and I don't think he heard. Professor Zoll wasn't exactly my professor, I took lectures to another professor, I took exams with another professor, and I got plus 4 from criminal law. And as far as Professor Zoll's legislative powers are concerned, you'll get to know him best by the fruits. Then study the number of changes and amendments that needed to be made to the project by Professor Zoll and his committee. There are dozens of amendments, which are not based on the implementation of European law or on the need to comply with our international obligations. These amendments result from errors, shortcomings, substantive and legislative shortcomings found in practice. They were related to the fact that e.g. Corruption in many areas has ceased to be pursued. Do you know that? Not that she was a much softer pursuer than in the 1969 Code, but she wasn't even chased at all. The rapes were much more mildly treated. We're talking about pedophilia today. After all, in the criminal code adopted in 1997, bringing a minor to sexual relations, as the doctrine at one point recognized, was not criminal, because if a minor wanted to enter into such a relationship himself, it was treated as a non-punishment, i.e. as a flaw of that provision. That is why the necessary revision of the substantive provision on pedophilia offences was made in 2004 so that it could be prosecuted in situations where children without adult activity remain... Well, for example. A demoralized minor takes the initiative, as it were, taking the role of an adult... The point was that such situations should also be punished. It was one of the substantive gaps in the code that came out in the process, it was the work of Professor Zoll. There were more such mistakes in terms of corruption, economic crime, the reduction of criminal liability. Besides, it was such a picture of crime related to organized crime that in fact criminal groups were fleeing criminal responsibility, and it was at a time when there was the biggest outbreak of organized crime in Poland, when cars and bombs in Warsaw exploded, when people were being bullied. The city wasn't ruled by cops, it was ruled by bandits, and then it was introduced into the criminal code of solutions that were a gift to bandits who guaranteed them impunity, because it was necessary to prove that there was a relationship that was intended to commit a crime, many crimes, which is sometimes much more difficult, especially if it is a continuous crime. It was a mistake that was corrected later by the same people on the codification committee with Professor Zoll at the head. She showed them the practice that they made a substantive error, and that was a discrediting error. I am no longer talking about the fact that criminal sanctions have been alleviated in dozens of cases, and it is for these most serious crimes precisely, including rapes, pedophilia, corruption in particular, organised crime. It can't be in my head what they've done. Yes, they, these people who have proposed this, are not for me some environment that I accept as those whom I would like to hear and implement their theoretical concepts in criminal law. I can assure you and you that I value the voice of practitioners very much. And indeed, the changes that I'm working on are largely the aftermath of my meetings with judges, prosecutors, lawyers. The thousands of hours we had in the discussions led us to this project that was prepared. And in criminal law, as in any science, there are different environments that share doctrinal views. Here you are Professor Mącior, as I mentioned, Professor Tyszkiewicz, was a sacred memory of Dr. Kochanowski, now there is a new generation of carnivalists, which expresses the view different from what he was and is still articled by the community of the Krakow school with Professor Zoll at the head. Wait, were there any other... Were there any other... [[But you didn't answer my question about who you consulted this project with. It's a simple question, so...]] I said, Senator, that I consulted with practices. For me, the voice of practitioners is more important than the voice of theorists. The theory, the representatives of the theory, that's what it is, they've also been giving opinions, because we've been ordering opinions from them. I very much respect the opinions of the representatives of the theory, but just as reviewers, not as creators. And that's the change in the way we deal with the law. The first part, the first violin is played by the practitioners, which is the people who ate their teeth on their mistakes... [[But there are also plenty of professors of practitioners.]] ...and who have seen how this law works in practice, have seen the harm of people harmed by criminals, while these criminals have fled from responsibility, and the people harmed have felt hurt again. And that's why the voice of practitioners is more valuable to me. Because even the most outstanding theorist is unable to imagine the situation of life. And that's why the voice of practice is, from my point of view, more important. Nevertheless, I also listened to the representatives of the theory, but only when I ordered their reviews, their opinions. I did not give them a leading role, as was the case with the Committee on Civil Law Codification. And we're out of it. I'm sure of it. Okay. This solution will be better, there will be fewer amendments, changes, substantive errors than it was during the period or in connection with the work of Professor Zoll. There were other questions. Namely, it was about fighting the prosecution with pedophilia in practice, in a collision with the action of the committee. I don't know what this committee is going to be, but I suspect the role of the committee will be different from that of the D.A.'s office. We have experience with committees of inquiry, we know that these roles do not exclude each other, and sometimes they can complement each other, so if this is a committee that will do some research, evidence, will point to some phenomena, but also concrete facts, then the knowledge acquired by this committee can be usefully used by the prosecution. I also do not rule out that the committee will also use the knowledge acquired by the prosecutor's office in the course of its proceedings, because, as I told the senators, there are more ongoing cases at a time when I am the Attorney General, so the prosecutor is doing better. If this is the case, i.e. after the number of cases of this kind of crime than before, during the period of government, the Civic Platform. So I hope to accept the appointment of a committee If, of course, she is not a committee to serve solely political purposes. But when I listened in the Seym to the statements of politicians of the Civic Platform, I heard a language that could sometimes be pierced by Jerzy Urban's texts during his greatest anger and fight against the Church. It's an attempt to transfer all those disgusting events that I'm sure have happened to all the priests without exception to the thousands of priests that I want to talk to... [[Nobody talks like that...]] [[It's in the discussion, in the discussion...]] ...and take responsibility for those disgraceful events that have also happened. They require severe punishment, decisive action. And that is why we, and not you, introduced the obligation imposed on priests in the Polish penal code, also on the hierarchy to inform law enforcement authorities about such events. Where have you been? I refer to the Senators of the Civic Platform when there were reports of various irregularities, and you had the opportunity to change the law by imposing legal obligations to inform about such events? What did you do about it? Why haven't you approved these changes? We've just adopted such solutions... [[And what did you do...]] ...and we also introduced a duty for the church party to inform about the events of paedophile crime. You didn't do it! You guys have mouths full of clichés... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...but actions spread with words! We are witnessed by deeds, by words of you. And let the voters judge that. [[Voices from the hall: Oh, oh! That's what I'm talking about.]] As far as the fight against crime is concerned, you care very much about all these thugs that the poor will be in prison. And I think it's a good thing they're gonna be in jail for your pedophiles, your rapists, your kidnappers, your finger clippers... I think they belong in prison! And you're grabbing your heads, and I hope the camera shows it. 'Cause here's the poor, they're going to jail! Right? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, you didn't just say, but you made that law... [[Voices from the hall: What did we say? What?]] ...the law that served these bandits, paedophiles and dangerous criminals. [[But who said that?]] [[You.]] [[Oh, tablet, tablet...]] Professor Zoll's school is just the source of such a legislative idea, which in the 1990s led to the reduction of penalties! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The Biggest Crime The softest law ever passed! [[Mr. Marshal, I think we need a five-minute break...]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the senators...]] Professor Zolla's criminal law school... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u251	I appeal to the Minister to lower the temperature of the speeches. 'Cause I'm gonna have to scream loudly through the microphone, and then I'm gonna be the top. I wouldn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes break...]] What's your conclusion? [[Formal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u252	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal motion. Because we've got it right here. In my opinion, of course. The campaign festival, I would like to ask you to announce a 15-minute break so that we can return to the merits. Especially in the Minister's statements. I'd ask you to think about it for 15 minutes. The question and the answer to the question. 'Cause we know all these y'all didn't do anything, and I... [[Mr. Senator, you're in the middle of a discussion.]] Please take a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u253	You've filed a motion. I'll put the motion to the vote. But please note that this is how we are going to prolong this whole speech. So I'd like to suggest that the senator back off. We'll keep asking, we'll lower the temperature...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u254	Mr. Marshal, while respecting science more than experience, I withdraw this motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u255	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we can really do all this beautifully and we can be substantively and in a very informative way for everyone... But let's stick to the rule role. Did the Minister finish his answers in this series?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u256	You still asked about paedophiles when it came to breaking up for the competition. Mr. Senator, today's legal solutions unfortunately do not allow a precise determination of the profession performed by the perpetrator at the time of the act. The amendment discussed here is, in effect, the answer to your question. Namely, after the entry into force of these provisions, the system of classification of perpetrators will require a precise assignment of the occupation of the perpetrator at the time of his act. Because what matters is not what the unsub's profession is 20 years after the incident, but what profession he had at the time of the act. And this will be possible thanks to this amendment, which we are debating today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u257	Now you're asking Senator Borowski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u258	Mr. Marshal, I have such short questions. The first is this: when this amendment we are discussing was ready From your point of view, of course, from the ministry's point of view. To be sent to the Sejm? Because I heard she was supposed to be ready by January, maybe February. If you'd like to tell me when she was ready... The second question is the following. I thought you were talking about art. The 2017 Penal Code of 240 It seems that this article obliges those who have taken information about paedophile acts to inform law enforcement authorities, if I'm not mistaken, because... You're not sure this is the article, are you? [[No, it's just an amendment to this article.]] It's a rewrite. [[It's a revision that happened in our day.]] Yes, of course... it all happened in your day, I know that already. But... [[Maybe...]] [[Finish the senator yet.]] ...it's about whether or not I'm putting it right. Is that what this is about? [[It means wrong in the sense that the article you quoted, the one who legally obliged to inform about such acts and came from 2014. Well, that is not the case, this provision did not require information...]] I understand, but this recipe from 2017... [[Only since 2017 requires...]] Yes, of course. [[Not until now.]] And now I have a question: does this new content oblige individuals to inform about such cases that took place before that date, or only about those that took place after that date? And if there is a limitation limit before that date, is there no limitation limit? That's question two. And question three. Minister, you are a Member, and you are a long-standing Member, a lawyer, you are a member of legal committees, you know the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and you are authorized by the Council of Ministers to present this project. So I'm sure you've been broadcasting a certain mode of work on this project. My question is: why did you allow work on this project in the Sejm to be done with a violation of the law, that is, a violation of the rules of procedure? As And you know that very well. The Codes are being developed in a specific way. About the changes in the code... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm listening. There you go.]] I'll wait. The amendments to the codes are being worked on in such a way that the first reading must take place 14 days from the moment of delivery of the printing and the second reading also takes place 14 days after the first reading. All those rules have been broken. The Sejm, as you know, dealt with it within hours. I'm not talking about the Senate, because we have other regulations here, although, of course, it must be surprising to call a Senate meeting, too, but I'm leaving it, it's not a question for you. So I have three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u259	There you go, Minister. There were three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u260	When was the amendment ready? The amendment ready for further legislative work in the field of government work was ready... precisely the dates I will not give at the moment, but a good few months earlier, before the Parliament was submitted, which is the subject of the work of the High House today, because this amendment has been under review for nearly 2 years. The result of this work is a coherent amendment to the Criminal Code, including a wide range of provisions of the general part and of the specific part of the Code. But before it took this shape, it was the subject of numerous consultations with various environments outside the government, including the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council, representatives of legal professions, lawyers, legal advisers, and representatives of other organisations interested in participating in the legislative process, which had access to the content presented to the High House. Following these consultations, the Ministry took account of some of the comments which had been submitted. Also, as I recall, the ombudsman... In a word, many actors participated in the work on this amendment and took a position on it. Some of these comments have been taken into account by us. This was reflected in the changes in the content of the project, which eventually arrived in the Sejm two weeks ago. As for the procedure, Mr. Marshal, you, as former Marshal of the Sejm, should know better than I, that there is also a special mode that gives the Marshal of the Sejm the opportunity to conduct the project in a different way than the one you referred to. As I recall, it's an art. 87. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which makes the proper procedure for working on this submission respected and has not been broken. Well, I guess from whom, but from the former Marshal of the Sejm you can expect such knowledge. As far as the article is concerned. 240 criminal code, which I will repeat once again. It was not introduced in 2014 in the sense of creating a legal obligation to denugate the fact of a paedophile crime, but this obligation was legally imposed on every citizen only by means of a project submitted by that government in 2017, and in this case there is a dispute in doctrine and law school, including in the Krakow school. There are representatives of this school, to which you are so eager to refer the senator, representatives of practice, who are arguing and expressing a different opinion as to whether the obligation also covers past events but not subject to statute, or only those events which occurred after the implementation of this provision. Most of the representatives of the doctrine, the teachings of the law and the caselaw, who have so far taken part in this legal dispute which has been created under this provision, are of the opinion that this obligation must not apply to events which took place before the entry into force of this provision, only this provision must cover all the events and actions which follow after its implementation. However, this dispute will eventually be settled on the basis of the Supreme Court, which, I believe, will have to express its position in a sufficiently large and large composition. And such a position is usually respected and widely recognised by law and practice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u261	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u262	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask you three questions, but I would also like answers. The first question concerns these urgent legislative changes. Because the justification was that this was about the fight against pedophilia, but the 363 articles in Penal Code 105 were changed. Tell me how many of these revised articles concern pedophile acts. Second thing. However, in the spirit of Senator Hare's speech, as well as the big discussion that took place yesterday at our committee meeting... This applies to Article. 3 of this Council of Europe Convention is about imprisonment for life. There's an absolute ban, and I'd like to go along with that. I would like to know the justification of you as a man of the Church, as you define yourself by what right. We can deprive people of hope. That's one thing. Second Yesterday it was also mentioned, and the patron strongly emphasized it. People deprived of any hope can do things... If they know they're gonna be in prison for the rest of their lives, they can commit another crime even at the prison. Did you ever think about what happened to the legal errors that happen? We've been dealing with a court error recently about your command. He spent 18 years in prison because he was a young man. And now I'm going to refer to this rehabilitation policy because he, as a young man, was very broken by the police. And it's definitely not the only case. What do you think? He's not the only case, but he left after 18 years. Can you imagine that a man after such experiences... You know what you do to people like that in prison. Right? You know, I'm sure you do. These people are raped, deprived of dignity, etc., etc. If it's about the perpetrator, it's half poor, but it's a victim. Have you considered introducing this absolute life sentence of imprisonment, that such cases might be? In addition, Minister... [[Is that the third question or the fourth, Senator?]] [[Voice from the room: Fifth, I guess.]] The third question is... Let me just remind you in this question that the record of those performing public functions has been extended to include those exercising public functions in cooperatives and national organisations. What does that mean? What kind of national associations are these? Well, we've already talked about a national association of canary lovers. And are there people in a cooperative that has three people, or in a social cooperative that deals with disabled people, as well? Will it include this article? Will these persons be assessed as public figures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u263	There were three questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u264	Mr. Marshal, there were a little more questions here than 3... [[Yeah, maybe it'll work.]] So if I'm gonna answer all of them, there's gonna be a little more of those answers. Rapid legislative changes? I don't share your opinion. This work on legislation, as I have already mentioned, lasted over a year and a half, about two years. This is not, therefore, an excessively fast work, it is a thoughtful work which has been thoroughly assessed by different environments, also critical of these changes. Therefore, I do not see any dysfunction or excessive haste here. Yes, there was a moment of some acceleration with regard to the Sejm, but my experience of working in the Sejm, in Parliament, as mentioned here, is that it is not necessarily the desire to make such a substantial contribution that prevails over the will to win political disputes and break political interests. In this context, the Parliament itself, unfortunately, is increasingly visible, not necessarily a place for a fair, substantive debate on any major projects, and especially on those which arouse public interest and divide politically. Therefore, I do not put too much hope in the fact that if the work on this submission in the Sejm were to last longer, it would bring anything more good to this presentation, and it could even cause any further doubts, falsely asked questions. We take responsibility for this project. We are consistent in the implementation of a certain vision of criminal policy. We want to fight dangerous crime hard, including pedophilia. The opposition doesn't like it. He has the right to write his position here. We don't share him. The votes will be settled. The Senate will be here today, I understand, deciding. How many crimes are involved in paedophile crimes from those that are covered here... I've mentioned a number of these things. I'm not gonna be with a ruler and a scoop right now... [[What articles in the Penal Code?]] ...counting down how many records specifically apply only to paedophile crimes. Of course, it's not the dominant majority, as perhaps the senator suggested, that I would like to... [[I wasn't implying anything.]] ...make such an impression. No, of course it's not. This code, as we have been talking about from the beginning, concerns a very broad matter, connected with brutal, serious crime against life, freedom, health, property, organised crime, mafia crime, and we believe that as this comprehensive change, which is a very important element in the impact on paedophile crime, child crime, is consistent, consistent and worth adopting. With regard to the change in paedophile acts, these are very far-reaching changes that radically tighten criminal law as far as paedophile criminals are concerned. I'm sure they won't be happy if you pass these changes, go beyond political disputes and vote in favour of this solution. It will be bad news for pedophiles, and good news for their victims, there is no doubt about it. We are introducing not only penalties, but also criminal measures which have not previously been applied and which require the courts to introduce, for example, criminal measures. the prohibition of contact with children, with victims, the prohibition of staying in a specific place. And the court must rule such a ban. Thanks to the state's decision, I trust because you want to protect your children, he will have to do so whenever the application is submitted by a child or his proxy. This Code, of course, in a layer related to the general part of the Criminal Code, introduces various changes to the Directive's dimension of punishment, taking into account, first of all, the interests of the victims and not the perpetrators, emphasising the isolation function of punishment in the case of dangerous criminals and the deterrent, which is the subject of this philosophy of the Criminal Code, which we are submitting to you. And that's because we think that again. That dangerous criminals should, if possible, be deterred, isolated, given what they deserved, because this is the expectation of the victims, and this is a guarantee that the victims of pedophiles will be able to feel safer. These changes certainly serve this purpose. As for... the man of the Church. You know, the Church in definition is the collectiveity of all believers, so in this sense I am a man of the Church. As a believer, I make up for this collectiveity, and in this sense of course I am interested in the Church, also in an institutional sense, to eliminate in an effective way people who are suspected of committing reprehensible acts, and especially those who may have been paedophile offences. And in order to mobilise all citizens to such actions, without exception, also the hierarchy of the church, we have introduced as precisely this good change which you have in common with the Church, the obligation, which also ties the hierarchy of the church to make such reports. [[I'm asking you why you're tearing people away...]] But I certainly oppose this kind of false generalizations and false concern for the good of the Church, which are often sewn up by the statements of the Platform politicians, who are really trying to move all these shameful acts. Each and every one of them certainly needs the highest damnation. Everyone, without exception, representatives of the hierarchy or the church party. It's obviously a manipulation, a lie... [[But I didn't say that.]] This is breaking through, this is an attempt to manipulate... [[I asked you why you'd lose hope...]] ...from the many statements of the Platform politicians... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, the time for controversy will be in the discussion.]] Listen to the speech from the Sejm. It's on tape. Mr Neumann, head of the parliamentary club. I don't think Jerzy Urban would've trumped him with an argument, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is your party, you're like one family here, so... Well, unless you're cutting your friends off from the Sejm. [[I'm asking what's going on with this convention.]] As far as the Convention and the interpretation of international law are concerned, I have already presented this here. There's a court hearing in Strasbourg... There has been a debate, there has been a ruling that has pointed to the inadmissibility of such decisions. We have a whole, you can say, legal reasoning, a prepared argument that such punishment from the point of view of other international obligations and rights guaranteed to citizens is not only justified but necessary to be able to do so effectively. implement the State's role in protecting against the most dangerous, most corrupt criminals, especially if they pose a risk to children. If you were to accept your reasoning, the center in Gostynin should also be eliminated, and the senator could perform in a noble role and mission and give Mr. Trynkiewicz a chance to apply for a pardon... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What kind of mission?]] You have a chance. I'm sure I'll be against it. I'm sure I'll be against it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[What are you saying?]] Trynkiewicz sits down, he'll never get out. Do you think I'm inhumane? There you go. Thank you for such humanism and for releasing Trynkiewicz. Let them sit and don't hurt the children. We're on two sides of the front. I'm on this side, you're on the other side. Let's keep it that way. [[So your command would have to be kept for life? You'd have to keep him alive for life? Yes?]] Yeah, let Trynkiewicz sit for the rest of his life, I'm all for it. And you can shed tears over him. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You'd have to keep the command for life?]] I feel really bad for thinking that... [[Keep the command for life...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator, let's give this a chance to answer.]] As for the Command, I must tell you that I have agreed to conduct proceedings to determine whether Mr. Command committed this terrible crime which he was accused of and for which he was legally convicted, and I have taken personally with Mr. Prosecutor Święczkowski. The D.A.'s office had already had information about doubts and did not make such a decision. So from Mr. Command's point of view, it was a good change in the D.A.'s office that we agreed... the D.A.'s law is hierarchical, and it was before. And the prosecutors who wanted to take care of Mr. Command's case earlier were denied the opportunity to conduct this investigation. In this case, it is my command to investigate the District Attorney's Office in Łódź, which aims to clarify these circumstances. However, the fact that Mr. Command was unfairly treated does not change the fact that, regardless of whether he was unjustly sentenced to a year of imprisonment, to a sentence of several dozen years of imprisonment or to a life sentence of imprisonment, it would be an unfair sentence, resulting from the carelessness of man, requiring clarification and certainly condemnation. So this is where the state was rehabilitated by the D.A.'s office that I'm overseeing. I am pleased that I could play a positive role in this regard. And I hope that such mistakes will be less and less, because we are trying to do everything to ensure that prosecutors and judges are much better prepared, trained in carrying out such complex cases. We make sure that they have access to more and better means of gaining criminal knowledge, including genetic research. That's, among other things. thanks to these new measures, the previous judgment has been challenged. So we put a lot of effort into it. Good work and good change are visible today at the D.A.'s office. [[Mr. Command had the opportunity...]] [[30 years more would be...]] [[About 30 years...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u265	The Minister's done, isn't he? [[Yes.]] Senator Komarnicki is asking a question now. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's save everyone's voice, Mr. Minister, too, because the temperature is high here, and your voice must last for a long time. [[Yes, sir, my voice unfortunately...]] [[And social cooperatives.]] [[May I ask the senator for some water? I could use a...]] [[And public figures. There's still public figures.]] Okay, he's gonna be... [[Oh, thank you very much. Thank you very much.]] Senator Komarnicki is asking a question. [[The Minister didn't answer...]] [[I'll answer the senator in a moment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u266	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I don't accept these charges against me, what you said... [[Question, question.]] ...because at that time I worked hard as an entrepreneur and paid big taxes so that some politicians would play politics. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] Minister, I'd like to ask you to say without emotion... You're a public figure, you're a minister of justice, you're a very reputable person, and I would very much like you to answer me honestly. There is so much debate about the appointment of a committee, not only among politicians, the Sejm and the Senate, but also at home, in families. I assure you, I was an altar boy, and I didn't, like you, meet anyone bad along the way, fortunately. But we're definitely not gonna be able to sweep it up. Despite the high respect with which we often speak about the Church Under the rug. And it's pressing against my lips that it would be useful for the committee to be an authority figure, because you have to admit it honestly: whether it was yours or ours, the state failed. Do you have an idea that... Can you tell us today how you think this committee should look credible, say, from the Polish Ostrich to the Vatican?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u267	Because there was one question, I'll ask Marshal Borusewicz, because he's on the list. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u268	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three short questions. First. It was made in the Seym. And now we have it in the Senate. An amendment to the Code. Is that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Code, it's a criminal code. That's the first question. The second question concerns pedophilia. Why do you not propose extending the limitation period and increasing the penalty for knowing not to notify paedophiles? And I repeat, we know such examples, especially in the Church, that those who knew about matters of pedophilia consciously did not notify and move the perpetrators from one place to another. Why aren't you here proposing a tightening and extension? And the third question, which also concerns pedophilia, the paedophile registry, this open register. It appears from this register that in the case of 25% Pedophiles are unknown where they live. And yet this situation is changing, that is to say, the number of pedophiles whose place of residence is unknown is increasing. What are you going to do about it? Why didn't you propose here and propose changes that would make it impossible? There are, of course, certain legal options. Do you see the problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u269	Four questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u270	The first one mentioned an amendment to the code... What exactly did you ask in that first question? [[The rhetorical question. Are we discussing an amendment to the code?]] Oh, okay. Yes, sir, we're discussing an amendment to the code. [[Thank you.]] This is shown by the presentation, and none of it makes a secret. And it is good that we are debating, because I think it is good to tighten the penalties for the most serious crimes and give law enforcement authorities tools to combat crime more effectively, not only those in the area of pedophilia, but in a special way, due to the time, the moment of this discussion, the public in Poland is interested in matters of pedophile crimes. Therefore, the revision of the criminal code in this area also responds to the need for much stricter and consistent prosecution of paedophile offences. I've already shown you at the beginning what this change is all about. I don't want to go back to proving, contrary to some of the media's opinions, that we are radically tightening our penalties, especially for the most brutal forms of paedophile crime. There's a need. I've justified that, too. This is due to the assessment of the case-law. The senator also asked me here that in more than 40% of cases, when it comes to child sexual abuse, there are, unfortunately, suspended sentences. And even if the punishments of absolute imprisonment are already being imposed, most of these penalties vary within the lower limits, around 2 years of imprisonment. We believe that this is not the correct, appropriate criminal response to this type of crime and we want to change it. And we change in the only possible way that is possible in a democratic country, i.e. by changing the law, tightening the penalties, changing the forks that require the courts to rule on certain penalties. With regard to the limitation period and the tightening of penalties for failure to notify, Senator, I have already said several times here that this government, together with the President, introduced the obligation to denounce paedophile events in the Polish law code a year and a half ago. Previously, in the period of previous governments, there was no legal obligation to inform law enforcement authorities at all, to provide reliable information indicating that anyone committed a crime. No one had that duty, and none of the rulers did anything about it. This government has changed it, and it is proof of our will to commit all the communities without exception, under the threat of the penalty provided for in the Penal Code, to respond decisively to such stories, not hide them, not sweep them under the rug, but to the knowledge of law enforcement. This provision works relatively soon, but it already brings, as far as I know as the Attorney General, more such notifications are effective. So it brought good results, it's a good thing we brought it in. We've also imposed a penalty for such behavior that wasn't there before, so we don't have any here. Nothing to accuse of. On the contrary, we can say that we've done everything we've done so far... In the legal order, many have changed positively. As far as the pedophile registry is concerned, the senator points out that in the structure of those currently included there, 25% there is no assigned place of residence. We would like to point out that if the court does not oblige the person after he has been punished This is often the case before the changes in criminal law are decided. In order to report to the police, it operates in accordance with the obligation laid down in the judgment, the only point of reference for assessing the behaviour of such a person remains a specific law. As far as I know, its solutions are applied here as far as possible. Let us remember that we operate in a free country, which is located in a free community of European Union countries. People can move around, change their home addresses. The reporting obligation has been abolished by your government, which does not make it easy in this case to define the permanent residence of a person who does not have a permanent place of check-in. So that such problems happen, but we try to measure and solve them as legally as possible. I can tell you that right now, I don't have any information as to whether it's 25%, which is the exact value. After meeting in the Senate, I will instruct you to prepare an accurate report on this subject and send you this information, including a proposal, if I see this possibility, to improve this situation. [[The question is, Senator Blackbay...]] [[I'm sorry, but I didn't get the answer to my question, Mr. Marshal.]] Oh, yeah, yeah... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Then why don't you answer...]] Yes. Thank you. [[Excuse me.]] Mr. Senator, I, of course, respect that you are an entrepreneur. I can tell you that, as Minister of Justice, it was under the influence of entrepreneurs that I introduced changes to Polish law in the fight against VAT crime. Entrepreneurs, representatives of large recognized companies, including Polish companies, came to me and pointed out that they were victims of unfair competition by those who commit VAT crimes who unfairly fight them on the market and win in a competitive dispute, cheating on the Polish state. After this meeting in the Ministry, I set up a team consisting of representatives of the prosecutor's office, the court, the tax authorities, but also experts, experts on tax issues pointed out by these entrepreneurs. We have been able to build new criminal law not only in terms of criminal sanctions, but also in terms of the new design of legislation that has so well hit organized crime dealing with fraud already paid by honest traders. Do you remember that VAT-Own crime, these VAT carousels are not only non-payment of tax, but, above all, the delivery of the already paid tax by honest citizens, not only entrepreneurs, tax. Right? In a word, I respect that and we do a lot about it. As far as the idea of committee is concerned, I do not feel entitled to answer that question because I am not the initiator of this idea. Such a committee is a vision given by different political communities and this vision has been signalled in Parliament, so I assume that there will probably be a proposal for this committee. I will be happy to respond to this and take a stand on the basis of the legal instruments that such a committee will be equipped with in order to help conduct possible proceedings so that there is synergies between the prosecution and such a committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u271	It's Senator Blackbay now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u272	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I will return briefly to the question of Senator Zientarski concerning the codification committee. The Minister said he values experience more than knowledge, well, such an axiom, but okay... [[Than theoretical knowledge. Please be precise.]] [[Theoretical voice?]] [[Voice from the room: Knowledge can only be theoretical.]] [[The voice from the courtroom: The lawyers...]] Okay, theoretical knowledge... But don't disturb me, Counselor... [[Voice from the hall: He's yelling at your friend. You gotta be scared.]] [[Ask me a question.]] Minister, I think that the codification committee, which is being extended during discussions on such projects, is always a better solution. Tell me if you know a professor in Poland, a professor with practical knowledge that would be suitable for the codification committee. That's the first question. Second question, about public opinion polls. The Minister attached great importance to the public in the case of various types of punishment-related solutions. According to IBRiS 70% The study said that it should arise. I'm gonna mark it again: it's gotta come up. ..the committee....the for pedophilia in the Church, not a broad-based commission investigating pedophilia of all, including celebrities and those you mentioned in your speeches. Well, she can rise, too. But I ask you to answer whether you share the view that there should be a committee at the state level set up by a parliament that will deal with pedophilia in the Church. 70% the persons answer that yes, such a committee should be set up. And last, third question. Minister, I am still talking about the surroundings of this bill. I found your statement from the Seym in which you said There was definitely a hot atmosphere, as usual in the Seym. Yeah, I think somebody's been eating crazy. I do not notice any errors in the draft of this law. That's what you're saying, maybe it's not the whole... [[No, no, that wasn't what you said, Senator. Please read my statement carefully.]] But you don't notice... [[Mr. Senator, it was about tightening up the charge that we're mitigating criminal liability. So please...]] But no, no, the fact that I don't notice any mistakes, that's... [[Those that lead to a reduction in criminal liability. That's right, and I'm supporting it.]] No mistakes... [[To alleviate criminal liability for paedophile crimes. I'm holding it 100%.]] In answer, you will correct it, if I may ask, so that I may have that knowledge. Unfortunately, Dr. Małecki from Cracow writes: "The number of amendments shows how this project has been illegiblely prepared. Now we are dealing with an attempt to repair it with minor technical changes. But there are still shortcomings in the bill that can't be removed at this stage... and then there's a further explanation. I would like your comment on the assessment of Dr. Małecki from Krakow on this bill. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u273	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u274	The best evidence of Dr. Malecki is that he first accused us of decriminating the minor into sexual intercourse. Please check what he wrote on this subject. and then under the influence of arguments, e.g. Mr. Szafrański here has had to withdraw from this position and admit that it is wrong. [[So you don't agree?]] It's obvious he's as erring as you are. [[Oh, is he wandering? Good.]] ...and he's not a mistake-free man, he happens to everyone, as you can see, to the representatives of the Krakow school. As for the codification committee... You know, I don't want to repeat myself, but once again, I encourage you to evaluate and analyze... [[Minister, that's not the point.]] ...criminal codification of 1997 The number of amendments, amendments to the substantive errors found in this 1997 penal codification, for which the Krakow school of criminal law is responsible, is simply shocking. As for the quality... the Makarewicz Code after its preparation was not once amended because it was of such high quality, and the code of Professor Zoll was amended dozens of times, and the number of errors identified in doctrine and in judicial case law is that you could discuss it here for a few days to discuss it in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u275	Senator Blackbay would like to ask. But don't take too long.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u276	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have such a heartfelt request. I respect you very much... You've said your opinion, which I accept. I might disagree with him. And I would ask you very much... I asked the question, not whether the Krakow school is... not what you did with that lecture. I asked the following question: is there a professor in Poland with practical knowledge that would be suitable, in your opinion, for the codification committee. That's what I asked. Do you know this person in Poland? I didn't ask about the Krakow school. I see you have a slight grudge against this Krakow school, Mr. Minister. I don't know the environment. Maybe I'm wrong. But I'm asking a completely different question. If you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u277	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u278	Mr. Senator, you know a person, even one who was involved in criminal law, codification, and has the title of a habilitated doctor or university professor. This is the professor, Minister Marcin Warchoł, who supervised and led... So we make the most of the knowledge and theorists who are even ministers in our government. You see, that's how we respect and appreciate them. But it doesn't change the fact that I've already said it, so I'm not going to repeat... This codification from my decision was worked primarily by practitioners, judges, prosecutors, lawyers, among whom were also people with academic titles, but not at first I looked at them. And then this project was the subject of a review of people with professorial titles, which I very much respect, whose theoretical knowledge and certain doctrinal cohesion I highly appreciate. But from the point of view of preparing solutions that are to be tools used every day in the practical field of legal activity, I give to practitioners the first violin in the preparation of the law in my department. That's my decision, and I take responsibility. Someone might not like it, somebody might want the theorists to play a major role here. I do as I say, I take responsibility for it, I'll be judged by the voters. [[Minister, there was also a question about research, 70% of Poles behind the commission to explain pedophilia in the Church...]] I don't know if there was a question in these studies that posed an alternative: are you in favour of setting up a committee to deal with paedophile crimes in different environments, or... You know, it all depends on the questions asked. I have recalled here, I have allowed myself to quote the research of the most reputable centres of public opinion polling (Kantar Public, CBOS, Ipsos) conducted over the years, research which no one can accuse of lack of scientific or objective formulation of questions. And the research you were talking about... I'd have to see how the questions were formulated, then I could comment on them.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u279	Thank you. [[I'm sorry, that last one...]] But... [[Just a little bit.]] Okay, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u280	'Cause he's not gonna be on the subject later. Minister, this is the IBRiS study, the 70%. And believe it's true. And since it's true, tell me what your attitude towards this kind of answer is.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u281	Sir, I can believe in God. And I do. I don't know if I'm strong in faith. But the Senators of the Platform... Please don't make me do this. I'm afraid you won't hear such a declaration of faith from me. Excuse me, but this... I'm not scared, I'm telling you honestly because I'm not scared. Well, believe in the integrity of the Senators' relationships, the Platform doesn't have much in me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u282	Thank you, Minister. [[You'd have to look for her with a microscope.]] [[Oh, that's respect.]] Okay, Minister. Senator Tadeusz Grodzki. [[Voice from the room: Thomas.]] Thomas.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u283	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a very specific question, Minister. Because I have the impression that if the nation was expecting a quick response to church pedophilia and ecclesiastical pedophilia, then... I have the impression that there are a number of points in this extensive code change. I don't want to talk about those license plates anymore. 'Cause it came up turning the counters in the cars, and the plates came up, but that's not what I want to ask. I want to ask you a more important question about the so-called. Little coroner's witnesses. It's an art. 60, which currently states that the court applies an exceptional relief of the penalty, and may even conditionally suspend it, against the perpetrator of the cooperative, etc. I'm sure the Minister knows this paragraph. And he was changed so that now there is a prosecutor's application court applies an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty. It's like taking away the independence of the court a little bit. Because it looks like this. Maybe I misunderstand it. That without the attorney's permission, the court won't be able to apply this relief, and the coroner's witness... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. District Attorney, would you mind if I didn't disturb you? [[Mr. District Attorney.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. District Attorney informs.]] I understand, but... [[Mr. D.A. consults.]] I appreciate the divisiveness of the Minister's attention, but I'd like to be precise... [[I'm listening, I'm paying attention.]] I mean, in the heat of this fight, we can destroy the institution of a small Crown witness, which, as the practitioners say, is very useful. If the coroner's witness doesn't know for sure that the prosecutor is gonna ask for leniency, and he's gonna take that liberty away from the court, that witness is gonna lose his trust. Please comment on this change.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u284	Thank you. First of all, I would like to correct the senator's statement. It's not true that turning the counters fell out of this penal codification. In general tomorrow, this ban enters into force and this is the great success of our government and ministry. It was us who proposed the criminality of the behaviour of cheating to reverse the counters, earlier it was impunity and many Poles were cheated, done not to tell what, when they bought cars. Thanks to our work and also the work of the legislators present - thank you - we have managed to change this situation. And in this amendment there was a technical failure, which led to two standards in this regard at the same time, but this would not mean decriminalisation, but only, jokingly, a strengthening of criminalisation, at least in a literal way. Because these rules aren't excluded, they're the same, they're just different. And as for license plates, I think that the change is right, because very many Poles also become more and more victims of the theft of license plates, and the police do not work because it is a misdemeanor, and the problems associated with it are numerous. So why let thieves steal, especially when they usually use it for other crimes - burglaries, robberies? They use other people's license plates, and then people get called in by the police and interrogated, because it's some bad guy in their car, for example. assaulted a bank or committed another serious crime. As for the small witness, Senator, this is a thoughtful change and I fully support it, even, you can say, I had my share in the fact that it was pushed through. Why? Because I know cases, you can say, reprehensible in some sense, that is, where it is difficult to find a justification for the extraordinary relief of punishment for bandits − often mafia bandits operating in organized criminal structures that even commit murders − who have so far benefited from this provision only because at the judicial stage they have revealed unknown circumstances about the activities of other criminals. Well, there's been a situation... I know, for example. a specific case of the killer, who personally murdered three people - quite recently we were just discussing him - he was the boss, he was a gang leader and he ratted on other colleagues. They got a life sentence, and he got, as I recall, less than 20 years of imprisonment because he was relieved of his sentence. And the court had to apply it, because this man revealed it, you can say, let the court raspberry, because that's what the rule is today. We want to change that because we find it absolutely unacceptable, absurd and contrary to the fundamental sense of justice, leaving the unsub with encouragement. If he reveals the circumstances, and those convince the law enforcement authority, who has been controlling this procedure from the outset, he has led them and sent the indictment to the court that it is valuable information from the point of view of the law enforcement authority - after all, the law enforcement authority will later use it in its work, not the court - then this law enforcement authority may apply to the court and then the criminal will have a guarantee that this extraordinary relaxation will occur. But then we have a guarantee that there will be no abuse that I have illustrated here with this one case, and we are also sure that the prosecutor, acting wisely with this kind of proposal, will do so when the information disclosed by the bandit will be valuable from the point of view of gaining knowledge about the activities of dangerous other criminals and thus protecting them from their activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u285	Thank you, Minister. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u286	Minister, I will be consistent... By the way, it's always with great interest that I listen to what you're saying, because it's always possible to exclaim some interesting things, like. The thesis you have made here that discussions in the Sejm are unnecessary because they only lead to confusion, confusion and therefore the government takes responsibility, knows what they're doing, why they're discussing... I wrote it down, and I'm sure I'm gonna use it. Now, about the questions... There's one thing you answered, that's the article. 240 - thank you - but the other two are unfortunately not. First of all, if you wanted to say precisely when this project was finished, when it was presented to the Council of Ministers and what was going on next. That's the first question. And the other. Here, Marshal Borusewicz asked you what I wanted to ask you: are we working on a code? And you said we were working on a code. Well, that goes with my second question, which you answered by lecturing me, and you like it very much, and especially to me. The phrase: Mr. Marshal, you were a marshal, you should know. Well, sir, you've already used that phrase several times at my address, and every time you were wrong, only before we cleared it up, you were gone. This time you are. I inform you that this article, the paragraph you refer to, is as follows: the Marshal of the Sejm, giving the run to the project, ultimately determines whether it is one of the draft laws referred to in the paragraph. 1. And in the mouth. 1 It is mentioned that to deal with draft codes, draft amendments to the Code, etc. this mode is used for 14 days, 14 days. The Marshal determines whether the project that has been submitted is a codex. When does he decide? When it's not clear if it's a code change or if this project can be pulled under a code. In this case, we are dealing with a code, it says: change the code. The Marshal can't decide otherwise. That's what the rules are for. Minister, you know this, and you're just using scams here in public. I have to say, I think it's very negative. You can get away with the answer, you can say the marshal decided so, but don't try to prove that it was in accordance with the rules. But here the first question is important, regarding these deadlines, as far as this project is concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u287	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u288	Mr. Marshal, I always appreciate your intelligence, and I know you can catch words, but please bear in mind that my speech refers to a specific context and atmosphere in the Seym, which you see as an experienced politician. You have more experience than I do, and you know perfectly well that I'm not talking about a reality that's out there somewhere in my imagination created, but unfortunately I'm talking about a grim reality that really exists. The opposition is not particularly interested in making substantive comments in legislative work. I wish things were different. We know that the opposition, delaying the discussion on the various proceedings, is seeking political applause and breaking political points rather than bringing something important into the quality of the projects presented in the Sejm. I wish things were different, and I'm very sorry that they are. We can use beautiful words and talk about democracy, but we can't hide reality from it. It's just the world is what it is. Sometimes it's grim. Formal democracy is not always filled with such democratic content and spirit as we could expect in connection with what is happening, or actually what should be happening in the Polish Parliament. With regard to your interpretation of the article. 87. 2, Mr. Marshal as Senator, as a free man, has the right to his own interpretation. I share the interpretation sent by Marshal Kuchciński. Speaking of which... The third question you asked me about... [[I mean exactly the timetable for this bill.]] Oh, yeah, I'll answer that. [[When you finished, when the Council of Ministers met...]] The project was submitted for inter-ministerial consultation on 21 January, which is the first date. Later, following this consultation, there were further developments related to the process of consultation of this project, as required by the Government's Rules of Procedure. I'm not gonna tell you what it looked like right now, but this date is definitely January 21st. It's the end of May now, so it really took a while. [[Thank you, Mr...]] [[But the Council of Ministers when did they take care of it? That's what I'm talking about.]] This can really be determined on the basis of official data widely available on the Internet. Don't expect me to... [[But, Minister, I'm sure you remember when you presented this to the Council of Ministers.]] Don't question me from my calendar. I remember, as I'm sure you remember... [[Yeah, pretty much.]] The case was known, and you can check it on the Internet. I'm sending it to the Internet. [[It's in writing, sir.]] There's some information out there. Then there will be no breach of the date. Because I'm gonna say, you know, it was like... Twenty-one, not twenty-three... [[But more of me. May, April, March? When?]] Mr. Marshal... [[Oh, there's something you don't want to answer.]] My answer is precise.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u289	Mr. Marshal, the Minister doesn't remember or can't say. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, excuse me. Senator Grażyna Shark. [[Me?]] Yes, you're asking a question. If you'd like, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u290	Yes, thank you very much. I'll answer it. [[The arrangements were on 5 April and the public consultation was on 7 May.]] I'll answer that. Arrangements, Mr. Marshal... Because you have a special... [[Mr. Marshal, listen to me.]] Mr. Marshal Borowski, you have special rights. That is the right of Minister Ziobro here, and therefore I answer. The date of the agreement is 5 April 2019 and the public consultation is 7 May 2019. [[You're asking if you're answering?]] Therefore, we answer: the beginning of May. No February and no January. The Minister didn't answer my questions, you just impertinated some things I wasn't talking about at all. I'm talking about ruthless imprisonment here. I have a question. Let me just add that, in the case of Mr. Command, it was possible to apply for a conditional early release, which did not mean at all that the court was to benefit from it. That's not an option right now. That's what the penitentiary's supposed to be for. Let me remind you that the Council of Europe rigorously enforces the powers of every citizen to do so. You haven't completely answered my question about extending the definition of a person performing a function. I mean, it has been extended to members of the cooperative and national organisation. What's that supposed to mean? Is the social cooperative, the housing cooperative... Okay, I get it. But what does the term "national organisations" mean? Foundations? Association? What's going on here? Who else do you want to extend this definition to?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u291	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u292	First of all, I do not share your view that the case of Mr. Command justifies the relief of criminal liability, because such a conclusion should be reached. The case of Mr. Command... [[No, it was about being able to use...]] ...shows only that the judicial authorities acted faultyly and unprofessionally. [[I didn't talk about it. That's what I was talking about.]] It's our job to do whatever it takes to make sure this doesn't happen. Mr. Command has been sentenced, if I recall correctly, to 25 years of imprisonment. [[Yes.]] This penalty would have ended if there had been no professional action, including the prosecutor's office, which I am directing, mainly the department to fight against the crime of the organised delegation of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Wrocław, and the decision of the management of the Public Prosecutor's Office itself, which could have followed the established path of decisions of earlier managements and refused to take a case which was legally closed. [[But he was not deprived of the possibility to submit proposals.]] I didn't interrupt when you asked the question, so let me finish my statement. Second point. The fact that in this case 25 years have been falsely decreed... If we were following the logic of the Senator's argument, we should eliminate serious penalties at all, e.g. For murders and other serious crimes, because it might happen that there would have been a mistake in some other case. Oh, no. This is the reasoning of ad absurdity and it cannot be divided at all. Our job is to ensure that justice and prosecution agencies act professionally so that there are no mistakes, if possible. And if there are doubts, they should be settled in favour of the defendant, as the Code of Criminal Procedure says. However, we cannot bring you out of an event that you have mentioned, dramatic to Mr. Command, such a conclusion that we should reduce the severe long sentences of imprisonment at all, because someone may be harmed. In this way, we would give a gift to dangerous bandits, and the consequences would quickly be felt by the victims. He doesn't agree to such reasoning. This is false reasoning, based on false premises. As far as cooperatives are concerned... Senator, we give people who operate under cooperative law, on the one hand, more protection If someone is a public figure, the criminal code will increase their criminal protection against those who do not have such status. On the other hand, we increase... [[Responsibility.]] ...the responsibility in a situation where there is an irregularity in the operation of this cooperative. Let us remember that cooperatives operate on the basis of cooperative law. This often applies to huge assets, such as activities. housing cooperatives concern thousands of people who are, so to speak, the beneficiaries of their decisions. Therefore, we should ensure that people who operate in such structures perform public functions in the management of these cooperatives... They must be sure that this protection of their interests, guaranteed by the state, will be higher. And it will be. About these, on the other hand... Excuse me, would you like to... [[National organisations.]] Yeah, organizations... They are a structure that oversees the functioning of these cooperatives as such. They often take... Well, in a broad sense, they often issue different guidelines, guidelines. I don't see any problem or collision here. On the contrary, I see a consequence... Those who have such powers may and should be covered by such arrangements. I stress that these solutions have two sides. On the one hand, increase their criminal protection and, on the other hand, increase some of their obligations, which they have as part of their service to members of housing cooperatives... [[Thank you.]] ...which they oversee in a broad sense...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u293	Thank you. [[This isn't about cooperatives.]] Senator Wiesław Dobkowski... [[Can I ask you a question?]] I already typed... [[I'm sorry it's so...]] [[Next round.]] In a minute. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u294	I would just ask the Minister about this national organization. [[There you go.]] Can we attract associations and foundations to this national organization?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u295	This is about national organisations operating on the basis, as I recall, of cooperative rights. I'm not... [[No, it's completely different. There are cooperatives here, and then there's a separate section on the national organisation. That's why I'm asking, Minister.]] [[What organization?]] Senator, I'll answer that question in writing. [[Okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u296	Thank you, Minister. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u297	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask about the status of a certain Mariusz Trynkiewicz, who is from my constituency, from Piotrków Trybunalski. As far as we know, he's already served the penalty that the court has imposed, which is 25 years in prison. Now he's incarcerated or incarcerated. I don't know what to call it at a resort in Gostynin. Is there a danger that he will ever be released? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u298	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u299	Mr. Trynkiewicz did not fully carry out the punishment which was pronounced against him because the court ruled the death penalty against him. Unfortunately, there was no penalty for absolute life sentence, which would be so real, one could say, a substitute for the death penalty and would guarantee for such bandits or murderers as Mr. Trynkiewicz... that citizens would be safe from their possible return to the crime. And returning to the crime in his case can have very tragic consequences. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to give the courts the possibility that for such cases as Trynkiewicz, such murders... Because that's what it's all about, murderers, that's what it's all about. The point is that the murderers who commit these crimes, even under special circumstances, and because of their certain personal characteristics, is very likely... well, it's almost certain that if they went free, they could commit this crime again, they would be permanently isolated. As for Mr. Trynkiewicz, can he come out... Yeah, there's a possibility that he can leave because he can always try. It is to be assessed It's about being fired from this facility. This kind of procedure is initiated every time by a resident of the same premises in which Mr. Trynkiewicz is now located. I can't guarantee you if he doesn't ever get a ruling squad that says let's give him a chance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u300	Senator Barbara Zdrojewska asks questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u301	Thank you very much. Minister, I would still like to refer to the codex issue or not the code. We asked you and you specifically said here that these are changes to the code. We heard that. And you are Marshal Kuchciński based on art. 87 §2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm de facto ruled that this was not a code and that these were not amendments to the code. [[He said it wasn't a code.]] He said it wasn't a code. I would therefore like to ask what you agree with Marshal Kuchcinski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u302	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u303	Senator, I respect your time. That's what I said. Please direct your comments to Marshal Kuchciński, if you wish. I'm the Minister of Justice. I've taken my position. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u304	Thank you. Senator Marek Borowski. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like a break, 10 minutes for the club. Okay?]] One last question... [[10 minutes off. Gentlemen, sign up...]] [[But I've already been given...]] I gave a voice. Then... [[The senator will ask you a question...]] I'll announce a recess in a minute. [[I'm gonna need a 10-minute break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u305	Minister, there's a problem with this code, but let's just leave it at that. Minister, I looked, according to your suggestion, at the mode of work on this bill, at how this work was done. And it turns out that she didn't go through the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers at all, as well as the Council of Ministers. So what's it like? [[Oh, you don't have accurate information, Senator.]] Oh, no. It's on the Internet. [[This is the official website.]] [[I don't know what's...]] This is the official website, this is the official website of the Government Legislative Center. [[But maybe it's out of date...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's why I'm asking the Minister. When did you present this at the Council of Ministers meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u306	At a meeting of the Council of Ministers, which preceded the notification of the project to the Sejm. I don't have a calendar in front of me right now, so I can't tell you the date. It was a meeting of the Council of Ministers that preceded the adoption of the project in the Sejm. Check it out. I don't remember the date, I'll fix it for you. [[Minister, I understand that...]] I can't remember, and I can't replay the exact date right now, and you're precise. I'm gonna make a mistake one day, and then you're gonna... [[No, definitely not. One day...]] ...the end of my life and more, one day longer he's gonna mention it to me. [[Definitely not.]] You're very, you know, memorable, Mr. Marshal. [[No. I'm not that petty.]] Let's be thorough. I'll tell you when I reach the Internet. I don't have a calendar here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u307	Minister, could you please... I understand you'll answer in writing. Yes? [[The fact that you don't call changes to the criminal code changes in the code, I won't forgive you, but one day for sure.]] Minister... [[I'm glad. Thank you, then, for your understanding. This is a gesture I'll remember.]] Are you asking, Senator, for a written reply on the calendar or not? [[A calendar of what?]] Well, it's the calendar of when the Council of Ministers took the stand. [[No, because you're gonna give me an answer in 30 days. Then it won't matter.]] Thank you very much. In that case, no. There are no more questions. [[Voice in the room: Request for a recess.]] I declare 15 minutes... [[I withdraw my request for a recess.]] [[Mr. Marshal withdraws his application.]] Yes? [[Yes.]] Okay, then. [[That's a discussion.]] Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for you. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u308	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There'll be 11 more people out there, I understand. We'll try to keep it short enough so we can make it to the Sunday elections at all. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister... The Minister has already left. Too bad he won't listen to our comments. I hope they're handed over to him. First of all, I would like to say this: we received a project, which - I will remind - for 363 articles in the code - changed as many as 105 articles. What does that mean? This means very deep and quite significant changes actually, not cosmetic, not things that can be called minor changes. These are major changes, such changes - as we have proved here, asking questions - which are significant and which are changes in the code. And even Minister Ziobro admitted it. And the person who doesn't recognize it is Marshal Kuchciński. Why am I talking about the Seym here when we're sitting in the Senate? Because our decision to vote today will make this project come out and it can be signed or not by the President. He's gonna be the last instance to save the whole situation. But I'll tell you what's going on. The point is, we could still be here in the Senate today to protect ourselves from a huge mistake, that is to say, from declaring this whole Seym procedure legal. According to the opinion of many bodies, many associations, the opinions of prominent lawyers, this procedure, which was in the Sejm, violated the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... has violated at least 2 articles of the Constitution, violating the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, because the Constitution in Article. 112 says that the work of the Sejm is governed by the Rules of Procedure and Article. 119 speaks directly of 3 readings. What does that mean? This means that if a project comes in and concerns changes to the Code, the discussion should take place in the special legislative procedure foreseen for the Codes and there are really no exceptions here. The person who ultimately determines whether it is a code, whether it is a code, is the Marshal of the Sejm. And the marshal in this situation, obvious changes to the code and obvious changes to the code, found it not to change the code, i.e. he personally testified about something which is clearly complete nonsense. And so, in simple terms, there is a situation. What did it mean to break that rule? It meant that there were 14 days after delivery to familiarize with this material. So the first thing - Members could not get acquainted with the material. And the second thing - then there were 14 days for the emergency committee's report, which in such cases should in principle be set up. Perhaps it was some kind of rally so that our favorite attorney-in-law Piotrowicz, the head of the committee, didn't do it, but to take care of the emergency committee. But if the emergency committee were to do this, it would be 14 more days to work on this project. This would probably warn this project against the many amendments that have been made here and could have been introduced earlier, because, as we have learned from Minister Ziobra today, the project has been prepared much earlier. The Minister must have known his shortcomings, including those reported by the senators about the accelerated work on this project yesterday. That's the first thing. The second thing: the pretext for introducing this so violently, in my opinion and not only in my opinion, and certainly unconstitutionally - there is no one at the moment to say, because the Constitutional Tribunal itself is unconstitutional... So we're not gonna know this unless someone reports it and legally legitimizes the complete nonsense, some complete paranoia, because that's what it would look like. I don't think the opposition is going to report this project to the Constitutional Court, which is at the moment and which, it seems, their judgments somewhere, at some private meetings in private apartments are determined. It seems so. Ladies and gentlemen, the pretext for making these changes was so quickly the film of the Sekielski brothers, which we all watched. This film has appalled the country. In about two days, 20 million people saw him on the Internet. It was a film that led to a kind of shock, although Poles were already after watching the film Klera, who gave his artistic interpretation of certain bad things that happen in the Church. In any case, the Sekielski Brothers' film led to a very rapid... was an excuse to introduce a draft amendment to the Penal Code to the Sejm, although, in fact, among all the changes that, as I said, concern as many as 105 articles, there are only changes to the 1st article on pedophilia. And now I am. We had 3 readings in the Seym in 2 days and it came to us in the Senate. We found out that we were getting a project that, as it suddenly turned out, It will have several dozen amendments tabled by the Senators of Law and Justice. We did not vote on these amendments, as I said, because of the unconstitutionality of this process in the Seym. In any case, it is astonishing that the Senators of Law and Justice, who never find any or almost any errors in the laws presented here, suddenly in such a short time found these errors several dozen and presented them all. And today, the Senator rapporteur was telling us very carefully that these mistakes were so many that they were quite serious and so on. All of this means it's not about the law, it's not about some justice, it's not about what Minister Ziobro was talking about today, what he was screaming about, those poor victims and those horrible criminals. Turns out it's probably not about that, it's about some kind of internal party fight. First of all, the moment to introduce this, i.e. on the pretext of fighting pedophilia, has been changed, which had not previously been recognised by the Law and Justice authorities, and at the moment, the second reading has decided to change it so that this project is finally beginning to be a project that can be really discussed. And let me tell you, if we are referring to the social opinion, we say, for example. The opinion is expecting something... I asked the Minister whether the level of crime is rising or falling. The level of crime is falling, the minister said it, but he said he would like to measure it differently, but the level of crime is really falling, and it's been falling for 10 years. So there's really no justification for bringing in this type of project right now. I am not saying that there are no mistakes in the Penal Code, I am not saying that... Perhaps some penalties should be increased and it would certainly be worth considering why, what Mr Ziobro rightly pointed out, most of the pedophilia judgments are suspended. You'd have to think about it. You're telling me the marshal we're almost done here. I'm running out of time, so that, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that I won't be taking part in the vote. 'Cause we couldn't vote on this bill, even if it was good right now. It was accepted with first-born sin, it was mistreated in the Seym, which means that it will be able to be contested, which it will bring, in the future... Even if this bill actually comes in for one day, it will mean that you can't accuse someone of the same crime later. So that I would point out that we are doing things that will be sued in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u309	Thank you very much, Senator. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u310	Now you have the voice of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u311	Dear High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! This is another situation that is more curiosity than the previous ones. It seemed that there would be no more curiosities than those we witnessed when passing laws within 2 days, up to 2 days. But it was just a bill. At the moment, we are dealing with the adoption of a significant change in the codes. A significant change since this amendment concerns the entire criminal code, which includes 109 amendments, 19 provisions in the implementing criminal code, 5 provisions in the criminal procedure code, 2 provisions in the criminal offence code and a dozen in other laws, including, inter alia, in the law on road traffic. Why is this a curiosal change? Because the Marshal of the Sejm, who had the right to shorten the procession, it is often shortened, said that it is not a change in the code, but in the ordinary law, but it is not, because the title of this change is a change in the code. In addition, Minister Ziobro also said here simply of course. Well, any one of us can tell. But why did the Marshal of the Sejm go this way, breaking the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm? Well, because elections are coming up, elections are coming up, and the paedophilia case in the Church, i.e. It turned out that these various earlier signals The Dominican Republic, Tylawa, these are not accidental cases. After the movie, the Avalanche actually started, which could also be called... Well, it wasn't a storm, but it was just a cyclone. And the ruling party, the Law and Justice, wanted to show that she was determined on this issue. But at the same time she wanted to drown pedophilia in the Church in a general change of code. Hence these more than 100 articles, etc., which were previously prepared and which did not have to be processed in such a mode. And after the decision, after the government sent these code changes within 48 hours, they were passed and became a parliamentary law. What's going on in the Senate? Well, in the Senate, we're used to the fact that there are extra days of sitting when we don't have time to implement the pre-announced agenda, the Senate agenda. In this case, the meeting was scheduled for 28 and 29 May, but for the first time it was decided that such an additional day would be convened no later than 4 days earlier. An extra day before? Well, there's something weird here. From the point of view of logic, this is a very strange situation for me. It's like we're... well, I'm not gonna set an example for a situation like this anymore, like he's coming up with... Well, it's certainly something difficult to accept. What was that about the extra day before? Well, it was about him being voted out on the last day of the election campaign. For we have heard the message of Minister Ziobra: we want to tighten the punishments, fight paedophilia, and you are not, that is, you are co-responsible. And we have special contacts with the Catholic Church? Are we the majority of priests who support us? Platform? Of course he's in favour of the PiS. I understand there's a situation here that you have to react because it turned out to be outrageous, unacceptable. But it has to be said or shown that there's actually not much going on, because pedophilia is everywhere, among masons, foundries, teachers... Well, only there, in this space, the law works, and in the Church... The church was excluded from the scope of state law. And everything we already know is pointing to that. Moving paedophile priests, covering for them, not telling... Until 2001, there was a principle in the Church that the notification of this outside the Church or the taking outside of the Church structure was subject to church penalties. That's what created this situation. When legally, also in the Church, there was a departure from this It was legally so, but the practice continued. And at the moment we have such a situation that there is an amendment, a very wide amendment, concerning the criminal code and other codes which I have said, and the Ministry or Minister, who stated yesterday that this amendment is perfect and critics from the Kraków Institute are wrong, accept all the fundamental conclusions of this institute. He accepts and accepts them. And at the same time, he says they're wrong. I don't know, but it's kind of a surprising dialect, I'd say. It's either like this or it's like this. Of course, this amendment does not solve everything. This amendment in 10 changes concerns pedophilia, but regarding pedophilia in the Church First of all, this is what I want to focus on. She's the one who doesn't do everything. Practice is important. What's the practice? Will the practice be that the state authorities will turn a blind eye and pretend that nothing is wrong and act only under the influence of the public, but will they decide to take action? I am surprised that, after the episcopate conference, at which they were informed that in the context of the Church's internal reporting of paedophile acts, 382 clergymen covered 625 victims from the last 18 years... I am surprised that such information, given to the public, did not cause the Minister and the Attorney General to investigate the case. When such information is given to the public and the authority or the minister, the Attorney General receives it, it is clear to me that he should start an investigation into the case, try to determine what is the information, who provided the information. I mean, that's basic. But it's not there. It's not there, it's just decisions and words. Decisions that, as I say, are not known how they will be implemented. And how did you function? The cases of pedophilia that a representative of the episcopate referred to, the state authorities reported only in 5.8% I mean, it's almost... Well, you can see here that the organs of the state didn't function. I have to say... [[Mr. Marshal, time's up.]] I'm almost done. I was terrified to hear the words of the princes of our Church that it is a chase upon priests that the Holocaust that pedophilia in the Church is a slogan spelled ideologically that I don't watch just anything... And hope fills with what he talks about and what the Archbishop of Poland is trying to do. Those words. I'm not going to quote who said it, but everyone knows who said it. They're really, really bad. And the biggest problem, as I say, is not that punishment is too low. Because only three priests, according to the Ministry of Justice, were sentenced to prison. The biggest problem is the cover-up and silence inside the church institution. And in this case the state must act because there can be no significant area... in any area in a country which is outside the law in force in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] Senator Piotr Zientarski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So many problems have arisen here, including the speech, the questions and the Minister's answer, that I really don't know where to start, because it wouldn't take a few hours. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start with a matter in my basic concept, which has already been discussed here by Senator Zdrojewska. Namely, the mode that violated the rules. The rules have been grossly violated because they have been found, as has already been said here, that we are not debating the code. Hence the obvious questions, did you actually... We asked the Minister if we were actually dealing with a code. Well, luckily, we solved our possible doubts, and we know that with the code. So all the more so was the thesis, which, among other things... I will no longer quote this Krakow school, which is not well liked by the Minister, but I will quote the operative part of Professor Wyrzykowski, who simply wrote: "It is the law of the wrong bed. And he concluded: "The scale of infringements of the legislative procedure should prompt the immediate cessation of further work on the draft law amending the criminal code and certain other laws, all the more so as the available analyses of the content of the adopted regulation point to serious legislative errors with legally and socially difficult consequences. It would also be difficult to imagine a transition to order in a possible preventive or follow-up procedure to control the constitutionality of the law over a gross violation of the legislative procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that such a situation will be clearly identified in constitutional control, because among others. Prof. Wronkowska, member of the Constitutional Tribunal, also spoke about the separation of the procedure related to the adoption of codes. There's a complete agreement here. That's why these 14 days... There's no way to shorten it. And, ladies and gentlemen, as I hear this cynical expression of the Minister, with a smile, that this is what the Senate is for, to correct, and the Sejm is actually just a rug... But, I'm sorry, but how is the opposition supposed to behave when she demands her rights, which are guaranteed by the rules of procedure? When is he demanding the possibility of serious treatment of representatives of the nation? All the more so since everyone who's given the opinion is clear... I'm just going to quote here because I'm a lawyer, and I'm bound by the resolutions of the Supreme Bar Association. There is only one issue that is addressed by the President of the General Bar Council, the representatives of the President: The proposed changes have been developed in a hermetic manner, i.e. without the broad transparent participation of specialists in this field. This is clearly seen in the proposed law and is subject to a number of solutions worthy of a negative assessment. Signed by prof. dr hab. Jacek Giezek and prof. dr hab. Robert Zawłocki. Ladies and gentlemen, these are practitioners. These are theorists and practitioners at the same time, and I asked about them. I asked Minister Ziobra who he consulted with, and he said that... he mentioned Dr Kochanowski's name, who has been dead for so many years because he died in the Smolensk disaster. Well, how could he even have such ideas at the time, think of something like that, ladies and gentlemen? Well, he mentioned that name in answer to my question, why he didn't set up a committee, and he has that right, and so far there's been such a common practice. And all the authorities are asking why it was not prepared by the codification committee, which could, of course, open this wide discussion. It is very good that changes are being made, but even before they are adopted... Ladies and gentlemen, if we are dealing with the submission of this kind, that 360 articles of the 105 Penal Code are being amended, it can be said that practically this is not just a code change, for which it takes 14 days, but this is a de facto new code. Well, in that part, it's a new solution. All the more so because it concerns not only the detailed part, but also the general part, or philosophy. So it should actually be 30 days, not 14 days with proper interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. They say the Senate can change that now. Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments, which were tabled at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, occupy 36 pages. As a lawyer with a 30-year internship and a doctor of legal sciences, I said that I was unable to examine these amendments with regard to the allegations that have been formulated so far. Luckily, a doctor of legal sciences, a representative of the Ombudsman, joined my complex, because he said he couldn't do it either, and he's much younger. So a little bit to say, I was mentally strengthened because I thought I was the only one involved in this problem. Well, ladies and gentlemen, he says, at first glance... Of course, part of it is... Amendments were made in response to the comments, but only part of the comments were made. All amendments are not included here. For example, the law does not include the elimination of the educational penalty from the directives, i.e. the elimination of the educational purpose penalty from the directives. This is contrary to the international package of human and citizen rights. This is one of the elements, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we hear that this kind of problem could be the issue. Neither is this solution, and it has been relaxed, because the optional decision has been introduced here that the passed law provides for an absolute penalty for life imprisonment, which, in the light of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, is a cruel, inhumane punishment, and its introduction will impede cooperation with other countries in the pursuit of the most serious crimes. And yet we already have a problem with the ruling of the European Court of Justice that any extradition request should be properly examined. Then this will further aggravate the problem. And these questions, of course, have not been answered seriously. Of course we support part of the project, but we can't sign it. I certainly can't, and I think most of it here, too. Not because we believe that pedophilia should not be fought effectively and criminally. No. We cannot sign the entire bill, not only with this original sin, the law that can be... if it is contested, it will be recognized and evidently stated... Well, there's no discussion here. There will be a declaration of non-constitutionality. Are we supposed to get involved in this kind of bill? I'm not talking about the fact that a lot of debutantes haven't been admitted, and there's no time for that. That's the problem. How do you treat senators who don't have time to make adjustments to such a complex matter? And it is said that code issues require special knowledge of law, special legal knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is simply clear and clear. As regards the amendments Yes, but you can absolutely not support the law in its entirety, the law affected, as I said, by original sin and one that we are not able to correct, although we see its errors. We can't be responsible for these mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u313	Thank you. Now, sir, Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are allegations of original sin here, and lessons are drawn from them from my colleagues, the Civic Platform, but my accusation is deeper. Because if you accept clearly that the criminal code, presented and revealed to us, has been considered within a few hours, almost at a negative time, then I'm the one making the charge. the government's good change that it violates the principle of the constitution, which is included in the preamble. It is worth remembering that the preamble, so important for this constitution, but also the principles of living in a democratic state impose on us an obligation to investigate fundamental human rights issues, and such matters are undoubtedly regulated Penal Code Whatever we call it, whether it's a code or a law, it's about fundamental rights in social dialogue. We don't realize, especially the right side... My colleagues may not have experienced this, maybe they even practiced democracy on the flimsy side or were not in it at all or peeking at democratic countries. It's not the essence of democracy to vote, it's the mathematical majority. The essence is to investigate the law. As far as law enforcement is concerned, there is no other way in democratic countries than democracy. With drama, we watch what is happening in Britain right now. Please note how many consultations there are, how there is a dialogue, in how many different forms. Excuse me, fellas. You're taking a shortcut. You guys go easy. And that's why this charge, I think, is stricter than that of breaking the rules. You break the principle of a democratic state, the principle of social dialogue. This bill is not for you, Senator Anders, nor for Senator Jan Rulewski, who, I hope, will escape criminal or other liability. This principle is for all those who are born today, who will live and live tomorrow, I hope, their days in a democratic state. You break this principle, deny the public the right to participate, participate in a country which is to be the common good of all Poles. In this narrow space of time and in this narrow space defined by the creation of this law, it is difficult to express itself in many ways. I don't have that ability, but I'd like to talk about two threads. I draw my knowledge from a certain practice, quite rich, in which I have touched it directly for many years. I will start with the most important issue that has not yet been raised, but is very important. Well, I make an amendment so that this law has a vacathio legis of 1 year, and it is not so as to delay the introduction of its assumptions that I am not discussing with them now, I am not questioning these assumptions. But that's why it's effective. In my questions, I have already shown that this bill, as Minister Ziobro said, and not only he, represented many senators here. It's a social order. I don't know what the ministers were guided by, but research shows crime is falling, and it's significantly, in all categories, and detection is increasing. Crime seems to have fallen by 30%, detection has increased by 6%. And most importantly, the research I use shows that society welcomes the increase in security That's the truth. From public roads, where the number of fatal accidents decreases despite the increase in communication and mobility of society, ending with thefts, murders. So the question is, why is it suddenly such an option, such as accusing the criminal world or even Poles at all? Because the criminal world is part of Poland. As one blogger wrote It's his responsibility to say it's going to be like a commune: more, higher, higher, higher, higher, higher, higher, and keep them in prison. I don't know where this is coming from, since all the government indicators have changed. And I think they're really submissive. That's the change. There's a lot of guesses here, but I'm not gonna play it because I don't have time. However, I want to justify this 1 year closer. What will this bill concern? First of all, these 160,000 cases, the charges which are made annually by defendants in Poland. If the justice system and the families of these people are involved, these laws will cover between 800,000 and 1 million people, which is a very important issue. If so, of course, it is about making these actions effective. But are they effective? As I have shown, at present almost 30% Criminals convicted, convicted, summoned to serve sentences, are not executing those sentences. He doesn't do it because there's a dark hole in the justice system that violates what the government is so proud of. Inevitability. Well, what is the inevitability of a criminal after a lot of trouble, after many actions of justice, this punishment does not take place. What is more, I could mention here examples that these criminals, while hiding, commit further crimes, benefit from the premium of hiding. Meanwhile, the targets are empty. The goals created during this cursed period of Platforms, created according to the highest standards. As the Minister himself admitted, they are empty, 10,000 places in cells are... And now there's a question. This law undoubtedly creates a new clientele for these purposes. Well, maybe it'll balance, but the question is, who are we gonna throw out of these cells to bring in the next tenants? Maybe those shoplifters they steal at the mall? Yeah, but then the market owners are gonna freak out. Maybe those hooligans that destroy property that destroy tombstones? That's when the others will be outraged. So there's no reason for this law to be introduced within three months, as the warrant says, but it needs to be created a larger vacathio legis. There are 105 articles, major changes. It's also a job for the courts, it's also an exam for the Prison Service, for the prosecutors, for the curators, and, as I've already shown, for the dying electronic surveillance system. An example? In Bydgoszcz, for 1 000 cases brought before the court for the application of a penalty, including electronic supervision, the courts have not ruled a single supervision in 2017. According to my assumptions and knowledge, it's because this system is dead. This system is down, so the courts don't rule it out. So there is no reason why we would have to file this law in such a way, as if urgent, to adopt it in Parliament and then implement it. And the other thing. The second case concerns only a fragment of this law, namely an early issue... of the execution of the rest of the sentence. Closed, I would say, in a medieval way, a small group of people, fortunately, because it is 400 people who are currently on the so-called. Life in prison, as they say in prison, for life. They're sentenced to life imprisonment, including women... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Listen, Mr. Jackowski. ...including those women who, apart from being criminals, are also women. Mr. Senator Jackowski... I'm directing this to you because you're worthy of that attention. There's a picture of John Paul in the hallway. II. So much. I know. You are dedicated to this pope, as are the others. But you should know, Mr. Senator Jackowski, that Pope John Paul II has forgiven the terrorist twice for life. And other countries, in accord with this gesture, the Ağca, who had not forgiven the Pope, released them into freedom. I ask: on which side you stand, proclaiming these inhumane articles, crossed by the Council of Europe, in which man But a man, though vile, a criminal, a criminal, you want to lock him in a dungeon forever? The answer is clear. Why are you entering such a small issue when it comes to numbers, into conflict with the whole of Europe? Why are you trying to make it harder for the prison service? After all, such a prisoner cannot be alone in a cell, he must be with another, most often young. Or to be able to commit further crimes? Why don't you consider that he can do certain civil acts before the end of his life against the environment, sometimes children? This woman may want to part now... Why are you breaking art? Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Four constitutions that say punishment must be humane? A man needs to be treated humanely. It's from its essence, it's not an animal. This is still a man, a man worthy. And it's not true that anyone in this country is thinking about how they're dropping off here, insulting society... that everyone wants or wants to let a man rape again, contrary to Minister Ziobra. He used a very inelegant example. This is not a class, in my opinion, of the ordinary official at the Ministry That here in Grudziądz the criminal released, the rapist raped again. Well, as I suggested, he was probably still a member of the Platform. At the time when the provisions of this law were published widely, in Gorzów a 24-year-old man gagged a girl, placed in a verse and made various other suspicious acts. But never, Mr. Senator Jackowski, would I do this to accuse you, the government of PiS, of Ziebra, of being the perpetrator of this crime, of this crime! Just in my consciousness, in my logic, in my Christian upbringing, there is no concept of revenge, standing on the side on which Ali Ağca may have stood. That is why I am making amendments, another, so that all these strict provisions, to say the medieval provisions, which reverse Poland in terms of taking control, taking care of the released prisoner, are repealed... so in the spirit of the one in whom you look so much, or John Paul. II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u315	Thank you, Senator. I'd like an amendment... I'd like to ask you to submit it for the rest of the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Tadeusz Grodzki... [[What are you doing with that Tadeusz marshal...]] Tomasz, I'm sorry, Tomasz Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult to discuss the cruel acts of pedophilia, especially in the context of accusations of people who should have special trust, namely clergymen. Minister Ziobro sketched us the perfect picture of the justice system, sometimes I say it as a doctor. Some problems with maintaining passion, but it's not important, and I think it's a list of your dreams as a minister. After all, no one is questioning that the main purpose of the revision of the Penal Code was to respond to the criminal facts of the paedophilia revealed in the film of the Sekielski brothers, but also earlier. The fates of this bill are strange. The Minister says she was born for several months. She's been through the Seym for two days. Every criminal will probably be using a lawyer who will sue her constitutionality, and he will have a chance to win. As you know, there is such a thing as the Government Legislative Center, which has an official website: legislation. Rcl.gov.pl. If the bill goes to the Senate, on this page all these fields are marked in blue. Here are the different stages: arrangements, public consultation, opinion, Committee of the Council of Ministers... At the end: Council of Ministers; notification. If you look for other laws here, even if they are at the last session of the Sejm, you will notice that all these fields are marked in blue, that is to say they are filled with individual... In this case, it ends with an opinion and goes straight to the Sejm... There is neither the notification nor the opinion of the Council of Ministers. The Minister was in oblivion about when it was at the Council of Ministers meeting. Believe me, this site is being run. very professionally and all changes are applied immediately. The fact that this isn't here indicates that the path to making this bill was at least weird. I'm told that I'm based on the account of Minister Ziobra, the chief responsible doctor was a habilitation doctor, Minister Warchoł. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna use a surgical comparison. If my docent had been so incompetent for several months, he would have been advertising it to me as a great, flawless one, and then it would have turned out that I had to correct it completely, then the sick would have suffered terribly, and I would have thrown that docent out of work. I didn't expect such an insane job on the part of the Ministry of Justice of 38 millionth country. The Minister rightly noted that, in addition to the severity of the punishment, one of the attributes of the justice system is That's what anybody who licked the Roman laws a little bit is talking about. The inevitability of punishment. And this is an extremely important deterrent to criminals. He also talked about VAT mobs with a great deal of affection. I'm the only one asking where those sitting taboos are. He was talking about some paedophile being punished here or there, but after asking Senator Jackowski, he turned out to be sitting one priest. And the prosecutor who acquitted a priest from Tylawa for the so-called. innocent pussies, he's the face of these changes. Well, doesn't that seem ridiculous to you? I will no longer remind you of the question of Archbishop Paetz, I will not mention the question of even accusations under the direction of Marshal Kuchciński, but I will talk again about something from the medical world. Well, if someone testified in front of the D.A. under oath to hand over an envelope of 50,000 zlotys to a doctor, they'd probably come knocking on him the next morning... [[Voice from the room: 6:00 p.m....]] Well, maybe 7:00. Meanwhile, President Kaczyński's family testified that she handed over PLN 50,000 to some mythical priest for patronage in dealing with a case. So? Nothing. The prosecution hasn't even initiated an investigation. That reminds me of a joke. But this is a quote from a well-known lawyer about how two cats talk among themselves about the fact that long hands of justice hunt by the ground, and you can only sleep peacefully on a candlestick. If this is the inevitability of punishment in the Republic of Poland, it means that this country is moving towards the banana republic. The President of the Court is criticized for coming out of the door of the café Reader, and at the same time several times a week the President of Przyłębska meets an informal centre of power And here it turns out that nothing is happening. To be said, cruel crimes against children and they are constitutionally subject to special protection of the State In this respect, the offences of pedophilia and the cover-up of these offences should be severely punished. That is why we will support these amendments. But the minister here referred to public opinion, said he was listening to the people's voice... One of the famous Polish lawyers, and on the right, said that if the legislators wrote codes under the dictation of public opinion, we would still live in the shadow of gallows and fancy torture tools. Such arguments should not be used by the Minister of Government of the Republic of Poland. That's why, looking at the quality of this bill and what used to be called an opportunity to bake a few roasts on one stone... With regard to the correction of pedophilia, especially in those cases that concern pedophilia by loved ones, i.e. people of particular trust, as well as clergymen, we will certainly support it. But it's a legal bubble. - which is likely to be declared non-constitutional at the Constitutional Court, since these amendments to the Code are, beyond any doubt, carried out against all rules of procedure. We cannot support the whole of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u317	Thank you, Senator. Senator Radziwiel's voice now... But he's not here. Then Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go. For the sake of order, I will inform the senators that the Minister has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Borusewicz, Senator Zdrojewska, Senator Sztark and Senator Rulewski. Having completed this formality, I am giving the floor to Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Representatives of the Ministry of Justice! We are debating the revision of the Penal Code, and in fact the whole current discussion in some sense is a reference to this large, huge public debate, which has been going on in Poland for several weeks, about the particularly hideous crime associated with the sexual exploitation of minors. The public is appalled by these facts. It's not surprising. It works extremely hard on emotions. And it's hard not to react when vulnerable people are being used in a criminal way. But I have the impression that the debate on the changes in this area in the Criminal Code has come to our discussion, unfortunately, this has coincided. all together - during the hot election campaign. Therefore, emotions are sometimes more dominant, and there are more ad hoc goals than substantive discussions. I would like to say this: for me, the information given by the Ministry of Justice about the average criminality for paedophile acts at the level of 2 years, judged in the courts by final judgments, with a very high penalty rate of suspended... So in practice, according to the public, as well as for the perpetrator himself, the direct effects of such penalties appear to be absolutely disproportionate to the scale of the acts that have been committed. All this indicates that it is necessary to look at the rules that work and to define the lower forks in the appropriate qualification of these acts. And I think there should be no doubt about that in this House. I would also like to point out that in Poland there is a discussion on the setting up of a special committee to deal with cases of cover-up or a specific approach to such problems. I think it is a good thing that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced the establishment of a special state commission in this area - I stress: a special state commission, which would act, I understand, on the basis of the applicable law, which would be proceded, and which would, in a systematic manner and not only selectively, act towards one particular environment, deal with this issue - because the issue is much wider than what is at the moment, first and foremost, in public awareness. I think that next to the Sekielski Brothers' film a little unnoticed went through another film that was recently broadcast on public television. I am thinking about the film by Mr.Sylwester Latkowski, which concerned the phenomenon of so-called. Pedophile mob from Central Station. I would like to say this: I do not want to review this film here, nor to refer to the content that was included there, but what hit me in particular is a question mark and question mark that remained unanswered as to the consequences of prosecuting such acts both by law enforcement and by the justice system. Let me remind you, this movie is from a dozen years ago. A lot has probably changed since then, but the statistics we're dealing with indicate that also from the state side... After all, the courts are state, are neither religious nor ecclesiastical, it is a state institution, and it is the courts in Poland under the Constitution on behalf of the Republic of Poland that rule on punishment, guilt or innocence and determine the dimension of punishment. And no other institution can do that. Therefore, High Izbo, I would appeal in this debate for a substantive approach to the issue. I am pleased that there have been concrete amendments in the committees... sorry, the proposals for amendments which I hope will be accepted. So we can say that this way we close some period of proceding over changes in the law. I do not rule out that if there is a state committee mentioned by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki dealing with the phenomenon of pedophilia, one of the conclusions of this committee may be further changes in the functioning of the criminal code in this area, and not only in the criminal code, but also in other elements of the legal system in Poland, because it is, so to speak, interdisciplinary and does not only concern the functioning of the criminal code and its provisions. In this regard, it is essential, first of all, to act factually, in substance and quickly, on the part of the Polish State, so that these actions, which by the public opinion are properly stigmatized and should be branded with all the strictness of the law, are properly considered by the State. Finally, I would like to make one more point. I don't know why Senator Rulewski in his speech wanted to draw attention to me. I did not comment on Senator Rulewski's speech, but was impressed by the information that came to me at the time when the senator spoke about the death of one of the well-known union activists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u319	Thank you, Senator. Senator Mioduszewski's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u320	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have such a strong impression that the opposition denies the laws proposed by the United Right only because they were created by the United Right. Sometimes we really do not agree on key issues and we have a different look at the most important issues that are important from the point of view of the state and the citizen. I am surprised, however, that these disputes also concern changes to the criminal code. Even if I am able to understand that the opposition focuses primarily on shameful paedophiles, it turns out that this is a terrible, appalling and bearable subject, which has become a trampoline for some to appear in the media. However, the changes to the penal code are much broader and only a few refer to them in a more substantive way. In the end, in public space, the impression arises that we are not proceding a legal document, and we are debating pedophilia and whether this crime exists only among Catholic priests or is also a problem in other environments. In recent days, I have tried to gather opinions, opinions that appear publicly, and parliamentarians, and some journalists, those journalists with a negative attitude towards the proposed changes. I learned that one of the charges against the procession is that we give Polish courts the opportunity to punish harsher than before. As an argument, it is stated that the amount of possible punishment will not result in a criminal not committing a criminal offence. I totally agree with that. However, it is for the court to decide whether or not the highest penalty for a specific crime should be imposed. And yet, there are crimes that, because of drastic circumstances, cause special opposition. Tell me if there is blood in you because a man named Anders Breivik for killing in cold blood 77 people has been sentenced to 21 years in prison, and it is only because Norwegian law does not provide for a greater penalty. Do you have pity for a degenerate who rapes women and children in an extremely brutal and cruel way? Do you have pity for the killers? Do you dare to stand here and say with a clear conscience that 30 years in prison for a sadistic rapist is too much punishment? The changes made do not force the court to criminalize. This change only gives the court an opportunity. Here's another thing. Some oppose the possibility of applying a life sentence without the right to early release. They say it's inhumane. Ladies and gentlemen, on 22 January 2014, the Law, which the media described as the Law on the Beasts, entered into force. Doesn't this document, in a slightly disguised way, sanction a life sentence? At that time, the adoption of such a law was a need for a moment. Today, we have the chance to establish such a right that the beasts should reside where they belong, that is, in prisons, and not under the greenhouse conditions of a center to prevent dissocial behavior. Incidentally, as far as I know, this facility is already full. Do we want to build another sanatorium for the degenerate? Ladies and gentlemen, I hear the accusations that the change in the rules on paedophiles is so-called. The setup of the United Right, the catalyst of which was to be the Sekielski's film. Meanwhile, long before this film was released, we wondered how to punish these crimes. Here are some examples not to be literal. On 12 February 2019 the Pomeranian Gazeta, a newspaper from my district, will also be higher punishments for unintentional murder and pedophilia. 26 January 2019, Website Law. The punishments for pedophiles are also to be sharpened. In January and February, texts on this subject were found in almost every newspaper. Curious allegations that this bill doesn't solve the problem of pedophilia in the Church... This wording is demagogued because it is obvious that such a law does not solve the problem of pedophilia not only in the Church, but in any other environment. That's what the police are for, the prosecutor's office, the courts, the Church, of course, and that's what the media are for, which should shape social sensitivity. This law only tightens the penalties and changes the limitation period for these hideous crimes. It's also true that a paedophile won't look into the criminal code before he rapes a child. But who of you will not raise his hand to punish him with harshness? I don't believe any of you have any empathy for such a degenerate just because he's gonna have to go to jail for 30 years. There are also voices that we are not talking about those who, knowing that a paedophile has been committed, do not report it to law enforcement authorities, but during this term of office of the Polish Parliament we introduced a statutory obligation to notify sexual offences committed on children. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I firmly believe that you will support the changes in this bill and not use the tragedy of children to fight politically. I also believe that all cases of child sexual abuse that have been revealed will be severely punished, cases that have not yet been discovered and judged, and those who have concealed these facts, in accordance with Article, will be discovered and judged. The 240th Penal Code, the amendment of which entered into force on 13 July 2018, will also have consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u321	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Rulewski. Second appearance, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Answering Senator Jackowski to the question of why I was addressing him, I will say that I am extending this list and I was also addressing Senator Anders, and if I emphasized it, it is because I thought that we were, of course, not all mentioned, from the generation of Solidarity, but certainly somehow connected ideologically with the generation of John Paul. II. Later I developed this thesis, explaining why it is so important that this figure, which reminded the world, or maybe even more illustrated the dignity of the human person. But I'm not going to turn to you this time because you might be offended. I will address Senator Komarnicki, a colleague of mine who is absent, whom I want to respond positively on a matter which is not present in this performance, although some senators demand it or find it lacking. Well, it's definitely not the problem solved. Because if we assume that future paedophile crimes are solved... Besides, many other things in this code are solved. I wouldn't want my speech to be about putting an end to all this. These things are solved, a series of things are updated, and it introduces the concepts that civilization has brought. I'm not gonna throw examples because of time. However, this does not solve, I would say, the problem of the past, the distant past, the one in which paedophile crimes were carried out in contact with the Church. And there is no great grudge against the Church here, only an observation of the fact that this is the Church, which has so far been recognized as a guardian of morality, but also of human rights, in many cases has entered into conflict with its identity. And that's not the only argument. The argument is also that as a result of adopted law in Poland, the Church was entrusted with educational functions towards children and young people. The state has committed considerable resources to this by financing both education in kindergartens, schools and universities, and it has the right to expect that this work, this upbringing, serves the positive values enshrined not only in the constitution, but above all in the concordat. And it's a painful story because it's about a great social, religious institution that many millions of people trust. So she can't, like my previous speaker said. I'm not gonna mention a name, God forbid I'm gonna offend someone again, say it's just a prosecutor's case, a judge. This is bigger, and that's why Senator Komarnicki and others are talking about the state commission. I think we have to cross a Rubikon. We cannot bring this to the work of an investigative committee, which will only pursue the pursuit, on which the media make the most money, because they have now become dictators of morality, moral judgements. My proposal concerns the creation of a convention in front of the President consisting of persons who officially, constitutionally, are obliged to comply with the law, i.e. the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, the Supreme Court Judge A properly chosen, i.e. by the assembly of the prosecutor, and indeed, and the representative of the episcopate. They must take this responsibility, this difficult role, so that through recommendations, not through decisions of the committee of Jaki, which do not end any practical matter, not through political tenders, this problem in the atmosphere of truth, but also dignity, both for those perpetrators and above all for the victims... The victims should be there on the pedestal, and their dignity should be the subject of compensation... [[Time's up.]] It is necessary to restore and preserve their right to discretion, to experience the satisfaction that Poland, the whole of Poland, has helped to come out of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u323	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The topic we are discussing today was also due to my questions, which I asked Minister Ziobra, has two aspects. The first aspect is the substantive aspect of what is in this project, whether it is right or wrong. Of course, this can and must be discussed. The second aspect is a formal, legislative aspect, in which way we are working on this kind of law. And these are not trivial things. It is not like the Minister was polite to say that there is no need to put it under some broader discussion in the Sejm, because total opposition does not bring anything and all this is a waste of time. Well, I must say, Mr. Marshal, this is the first time I've heard that phrase in the mouth of a government representative, any present or past. It's something quite extraordinary. Whatever the opposition is, I apologize for the strong word. The dog's duty of the government is to conduct matters so that the discussion can take place. And the fact that the government has the majority and will vote what it wants is a whole different matter. The debate in Parliament is not only internal, i.e. the fact that Members are discussing with each other. Here, of course, the possibilities of convincing one another are modest, although sometimes this happens, it should not be underestimated. But above all, this debate is open, it is accessible to citizens. Citizens who are interested learn what are the arguments of one side, what are the other and how they develop their views. If there is no such debate, then, of course, this view cannot be made in a reliable manner. They can rely on tabloids to tell them what's right and what's wrong. This is the first case. The second is the way in which it was adopted. Well, it must be said that Minister Ziobro has been somewhat cornered here. Finally he said, well, I agree with Marshal Kuchcinski. And what did Marshal Kuchciński do? Marshal Kuchciński broke the law in a way, sorry, insolent. There were different situations where they were interpreted. And there was a violation of the constitution by interpretation. What about here? Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you look in there. I just happen to have a parliamentary internship, and I know what that recipe means, why it was introduced, what it looks like. He was introduced so that, in a situation where laws appear, on which there is doubt as to whether they are code-making laws or not, someone would decide this. It is noted that in such a situation the marshal decides. If he thinks it's not code, it could go so called. normal mode. But it can't be like this when we're dealing with a code. What did Minister Ziobro say to the question of whether this is a change of code? He said yes, of course, it's a change of code. And what did Marshal Kuchciński say when he decided that there would be no code mode in the Sejm? He said it wasn't a change of code. I rarely agree with Minister Ziobra, but I agree with him here. This is a change of code. And what you did to Marshal Kuchciński is simply breaking the recipe. He made a decision against the rules. Now somebody's gonna say, it's not the first time they've been broken, it's nothing, it's just a little thing. I would like to say to the High Senate that this case can be compared, in my opinion, only with the decision of Marshal Karczewski and the Marshal Koc, who in their time made a decision, thought that although 49 or 48 senators took part in the vote, it was a quorum. Quorum was because the camera showed that the senators were in the courtroom. What was the end of it? The end was that the Constitutional Tribunal annulled the law because it stated that this procedure was inadmissible. We're dealing with the same thing right now, exactly the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not the first time I've appealed to The few in the room, but the present Senators of PiS: how long will you tolerate this? This is the House of Reflection. Here Minister Ziobro hovered, praised us, and I'd rather he didn't praise us. Minister Ziobro said: this House of reflection, it is good that it makes amendments, etc. This should all take place first in the Seym. The debate in the Seym has another advantage for the Senate, namely... It's important to remember that we have limited time, we can't deal with laws here for months, we have a week, two weeks, that's it. So for us, it's a thing. It is extremely important that in the Seym there is an in-depth discussion, a debate, because these senators who are responsible for this subject can observe it, can listen to various arguments, and how the bill will come to us, maybe a week will be enough. Well, there wasn't even a week here, as usual, day by day... with 30 more amendments. Well, that's the standard in this House, unfortunately, in this term, and I won't feel sorry for it anymore, because it's just too bad to shred my tongue. However, that violation of the Rules of Procedure in the Seym may, ladies and gentlemen, end very badly. What the Senate should do now I'm saying this to the majority, of course. It is that he should reject this law and leave the decision to the Sejm. Reject not for substantive reasons I understand that you accept these methods and these solutions. Only for legislative, formal reasons. You should say, you should say that you cannot vote for this law because it was adopted in an absolutely unconstitutional manner. If the Sejm rejects because it can reject - I don't think so. - Okay. This is the absolute majority, the PiS has the absolute majority So if the Sejm rejects it, it takes on itself, but if you vote for it, you take on the consequences and consequences. This is the first case. The second point is that of substance. Of course, there are better solutions, there are worse solutions, I do not want to argue with individual solutions, I just want to say this: it is not a normal matter that a law that is so carefully prepared As the Minister said, two years of work, consultation, opinions, etc. 30 amendments are suddenly tabled in the Senate. And these 30 amendments are on the part of the governing coalition, because I'm already skipping other amendments, you know, the opposition always reports them. 30 amendments from the governing coalition. What does that say? The fact that this law was brought in haste and was actually prepared without proper consultation and in total on the knee, despite these two years. Why are you complaining right now? Why different environments have reservations, report them, etc.? I checked the Prime Minister's Legal Council's website. There's really no sign there, there's no sign of this bill going through the relevant committees. Well, maybe at the end she went through the Council of Ministers, because it's hard for me to imagine her going to the Sejm without the Council of Ministers. But we all know that this kind of project was rushed into the Sejm for only one reason Because of the Sekielski film. In order to cover all this, pedophilia laws, incomplete notabene, as it turned out, were put in there at the last minute, and under such a pretense that it was necessary to act very quickly in this matter, that law was introduced into the Sejm, without allowing it to be discussed. And so I would practically like to ask you: what would happen if 28 days were discussed in the Seym, 14 days before the first reading, 14 days before the second. And then she would have come to us? Well, what would have happened? Pedophilia in the country or some other horrible crime... No, it's not. The idea was to show before the election that the government was determined to fight pedophilia. It's just that on the altar of this fight, it's just the quality of this law. Well, you can't just do that. And finally, Mr. Marshal, at the end... Minister Ziobro, and yesterday also Minister Warchoł, give a whole bunch of different numbers, percentages, as in other countries... etc. There is no justification for this. The reason is to think about it. It's not there. You throw it in at the last minute. How do we get a chance to check this out? Minister Ziobro often manipulated the data, also from this bleacher, he said untruely. In order to confront this, time is needed, debate is needed, opinions are needed. And the kind of upshots that have taken place here, of course, only prove that the government is not entirely certain of these solutions and defending these solutions and wants to push them through the Sejm and the Senate as soon as possible. Unfortunately, Mr. Marshal, this kind of action, not for the first time, but this time with a manifest violation of law and constitution, simply ridicules Parliament, ridicules the Sejm and unfortunately also ridicules the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u325	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Ryszka, Mamytkow and Komarnicki made their speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the Senators Pęk, Martynowski and Rulewski. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u326	High Senate, the joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the 70th Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws will take place on 24 May one hour after the adjournment in room 217. The second communication: joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications submitted to the Act amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Act on Government Administrations, Senate Printing No. 1182, will take place today, 24 May, immediately after the announcement of a break in the proceedings, in room No. 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u327	Thank you. I'm declaring an hour-and-a-half adjournment. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 38 to 21 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u328	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Health Committee has presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendment. Senatski Print No 1186 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 18 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 1183 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u329	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u330	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Flork, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are 41 minority amendments. Just two, I'd like to draw your attention. It's about these lines that don't work for 3 months, it's very important. On Sundays, on holidays, on days off from school. I think it's important for older people to be able to, for example. get from the church. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u332	Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would remind you that during the discussion, Senator Grażyna Sztark and Senator Piotr Florek submitted their conclusions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u333	I ask you to support your amendments on Sundays, holidays and holidays. [[And in the rain?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u334	Good. Senator Piotr Zientarski was also the rapporteur of the minority of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 14 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Law on the Departments of Government Administration. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on National Defence took place at the end of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 1182 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Joint Committee on National Defence and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation recommend that the High House reject the proposal to reject the law, reject the sixth amendment, which concerns the deletion of the article. 4th and adoption of amendments from 1st to 5th.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u336	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion, Senator Sławomir Rybicki submitted proposals... [[No.]] ...and Senator Jerzy Wczyła. [[No.]] In addition, the rapporteur was also Senator Jerzy Wcisla. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[No.]] Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Sławomir Rybicki's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 18 were in favour, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 changes the seat of the Polish Space Agency from Gdańsk to Warsaw. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 3 were in favour, 67 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] Correction denied. Amendment 2 complements the guidelines for the adoption of the implementing act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 3 clarifies the circumstances under which the President of the Agency may apply optionally before the end of his term of office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to give me the result. 74 senators voted, all senators voted in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 4 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 5 is intended to refer to the correct provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 6 aims to delete the provision allowing the termination of employment with persons employed in the Polish Space Agency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 20 were in favour, 54 against. [[Voting No 10]] Correction denied. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to give me the result. 74 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 14 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Act on the Departments of Government Administration. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 1184 Z. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees recommend to the Senate the following position: The High Senate shall accept the proposals set out in points 1 to 7, 9, 11, 13, 15 to 45 and 47 of Section I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-24-senat-79-1.u338	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the discussion, Senator Marek Pęk, Marek Martynowski and Jan Rulewski submitted their proposals. There are no calls. Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. [[Voting No 12]] 74 senators voted, 72 were in favour, one senator was against, and one senator abstained. Amendment 2 is of a sequencing nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 71 in favour, one senator abstained, no one opposed. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 3 seeks to rationalise the rules on the sentence of liberty rather than imprisonment by limiting the catalogue of exemptions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 72 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 4 seeks to take account of reconciliation between the victim and the perpetrator in the catalogue of extenuating circumstances. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 votes against, 1 abstention, no one opposed. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 5 is intended to abandon the amendment to the provision laying down the principle of the penalty for the offences of the hooligans, as this provision does not need to be amended. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 Senators voted, 72 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 6 rationalises the principle of penalties for offences committed in a continuous manner. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 votes in favour, no one voted against, one abstention. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 7 is editorial. The adoption of this amendment excludes voting on the next one. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 votes against, 1 abstention, no one opposed. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 9 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 71 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 10. Its adoption excludes the vote on Amendment 11. Amendment 10 seeks to remove the provision which prohibits the application of a conditional exemption from the sentence of life imprisonment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 20 for, 54 against. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was rejected, so we are voting on Amendment 11. Amendment 11 aims to introduce an optional basis for ruling on the prohibition of conditional early release of persons legally sentenced to life imprisonment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 12. Amendment 12 aims to waive the provisions tightening the liability of persons who are sentenced to prison sentences. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 18 votes against, 55 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 13 seeks to maintain the period necessary to apply for conditional early release from the remainder of the sentence of offenders sentenced to the most severe prison sentences. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 74 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 14. Amendment 14 aims to waive the provisions tightening the conditions for obtaining conditional early release. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 20 for, 53 against. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 15 aligns the principle of the combined penalty with that laid down in Article. 53rd Penal Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 16 is the consequence of the changes made to Article. 200 criminal code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 72 votes against, no one opposed, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 17 extends the period before which there may be no statute of limitations against the life and health of the minor. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted in favour, 72 votes against and two abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 18 excludes the statute of limitations on rape offences with particular cruelty to adults. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 for, 1 abstention, no one opposed. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 19 aims to eliminate a situation in which even a minimum share of the State Treasury, a local government unit or a public legal person in a commercial law company would justify granting the status of public office to persons referred to in the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 72 for, 2 abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 20 seeks to extend the grounds for a financial benefit to all convictions for a crime of participation in a beating. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Seventy-four senators voted, 72 for, two abstentions. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 21 seeks to eliminate doubts about the characteristics of the eligible victim's rape of a pregnant woman. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 for, 1 abstention, no one opposed. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 22 seeks to clarify the characteristics of the party to the offences referred to in the amended legislation by stating that the relationship of dependence referred to in that offence existed at the time of the act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 23 also extends the stricter Penalization to rape committed to the detriment of a minor who is dependent on the perpetrator. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 24 extends the criminalisation of the offence referred to in Article. 200 §1 of the Penal Code for the act of bringing a minor to sexual intercourse, and in addition replaces the plural number with a single number. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 Senators voted, 72 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 25 aims to maintain the current scope of criminalisation as set out in Article. 212 criminal code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 for, 1 abstention, no one opposed. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 26 seeks to be sanctioned by an act of not notifying the offence of a homicide order. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 27 eliminates the new wording of Article from the text of the Act. 259a of the Criminal Code, which concerns the crossing of the border for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 72 for, 2 abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 28 introduces the proposed procedure for prosecuting a crime of theft particularly impudent if the offence has been committed to the detriment of the nearest person. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 72 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 29 complements the signs of the offences referred to in the amended legislation by referring to the extent of the damage and improves the numbering of those editorial units. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 Senators voted, 73 for, no one against, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 39]] Amendments 30, 32, 35, 37, 38, 39 must be voted in total. Amendments 30, 32, 35, 37, 38 and 39 provide a consequence for the new legal solutions introduced by the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 70 votes against, no one opposed, and four senators abstained. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 31 harmonises the rules for the use of electronic surveillance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 Senators voted, 71 for, no one opposed, two Senators abstained. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 32 was voted out. We are now voting on Amendment 33. It aims to determine the conditions for the use of electronic checks on the place of residence against the sentenced person who has been granted a break in the execution of the prison sentence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 34 is the consequence of the amendments made to the implementing criminal code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 68 votes against, three abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 35 was voted out. Amendment 36 raises the amount of fines imposed by a court order. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 70 for, three senators abstained, no one opposed. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 40 regulates inter-temporal issues related to the possibility of ruling after the entry into force of the Special Penalty Act for 25 years of imprisonment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 70 votes against, three abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 41 provides for a transitional provision to govern the application of the Law to perpetrators who are conditionally released and who are serving prison sentences. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 Senators voted 70 and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 42 seeks to regulate inter-temporal issues related to the revision of the rules on collective penalties. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 70 votes against, three abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 43 introduces a transitional provision governing limitation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 73 senators voted, 70 in favour, no one opposed, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 48]] We move to the vote on Amendment 44. This amendment 44 correlates the application of Article. 18 a law containing provisions relating to the register of sex offenders with the entry into force of a provision providing for the amendment of the law governing the rules governing the keeping of that register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 72 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 45 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Seventy-two senators voted, one Senator abstained, and no one opposed it. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 42 extends the vacathio legis... [[Voices from the room: No 46.]] Yes, Amendment 46 extends the vacathio legis law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 73 senators voted, 21 for... Oh, boy, me for it? All right. 21 for, 52 against. [[Voting No 51]] The amendment was rejected. Now Amendment 47, which aligns the date of entry into force of the Article. 16 with the entry into force of the amendment to the Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 71 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 52]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 55 senators voted, all in favor of... No, 56 senators voted, 55 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 53]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. I declare adjournment until Tuesday, May 28th, until 11:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 11]]
