ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. We begin to consider item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Mining and Steel Academy in Krakow. I welcome you very warmly to Professor Tadeusz Słomka, Rector of the Mining and Steel Academy, and to the rectors of this university... [[Applause]] Welcome very much. Hello, professors of this university, Mr. Mirosław Karbowniczek and Mrs. Anna Siwik. I would like to welcome you all very warmly. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 1061, and the report "Print No 1061 S." I would ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Wiatra, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Magnificence, Mr. Rector! Mrs. Rector! Excuse me, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We're in the century of regaining independence. It was a long process that began long before World War I. You can take different dates: the departure of the staff from Krakow in 1914, earlier the creation of the Boy Scouts in 1911 and before that, the Shooter, the Falcon, the Eleuterii, the Breed, and you could go back to the time of the January Uprising. This process did not end on 11 November, because we know that there was an invasion of the Bolsheviks, that there was a war in Warsaw, called the Miracle of the Vistula River, that there was a struggle over borders, the construction of the state, there were elections, the Legislative Sejm, the construction of further institutions of the state. Therefore, for several months we have celebrated another hundred anniversaries very important for the Polish state and for the nation of events. In this series of events, important events, is also the appointment by the government of Ignacy Jan Paderewski on 8 April 1919. Mining Academy in Cracow. On 1 May 1919, the head of state Józef Piłsudski appointed the first professors, and on 20 October 1919 in Cracow, in the auditorium of the Jagiellonian University, he personally performed the ceremonial opening of the Mining Academy. It is good that in the important film "Independence" there was a scene depicting the laying of the foundation stone under the main building of the Mining Academy, placing this event during important historical events, the construction of a permanent and modern Polish state. However, efforts to create the Mining Academy in Krakow began much earlier. It should be mentioned here the tradition of Stanisław Staszic, the current patron of AGH, the Academic and Górnicza School in Kielce, which operated in the years 1816 and 1827. Direct efforts for a higher technical school in Krakow That's what we'd call it today. It's 1861. Exactly on 24 April 1861, an application was submitted in the National Parliament in Lviv to raise the rank of the Technical Institute in Krakow to the rank of the Technical Institute. At that time, known as the age of coal and steel, Europe was building the foundations of modern countries. Their feature was the progressive industrialization. Many Poles saw the need to include Poland in these modernization processes. Historical, emotional and patriotic arguments were used, and above all, the substantive arguments supported by solid data. After all, in this part of Poland, in Małopolska, since the Middle Ages there have been free mining cities under the king and princes: Wieliczka, Bochnia, Olkusz, Bytom, Złoty Stok, Silver Mountain and many others. An important argument was the need for the development of mining, processing and industry. An extremely important argument was the need to adapt education to Polish needs taking into account the specificities of Polish deposits. Education, but also conducting research conducive to the development of the Polish economy These requirements were not met by centres abroad, including Leuven. The issue of saving the rich Polish mining vocabulary from denial by German terminology was also raised. The danger of exploitation of Polish deposits by foreign capital was also recognised. That's what it sounds like today, but it was over a hundred years ago. It was then suggested that Eastern markets, mainly Russian markets, should be acquired in the Far East. Detailed reports were presented in these areas and references were also made to the mission which the new university was to carry out in creating the national elite necessary for modern nation and society, such as teaching in Polish. A vision of a symbiosis university with a social and economic environment has been drawn up. This is all confirmed by numerous documents of that time, especially from 1861 to 1912. These were consistent efforts of engineers, politicians, including Members of the National Sejm, local governments, in particular the City Council of Krakow, including the Council of the Congress of Mining and Steel Industry and the Association of Polish Mining and Steelers, which at that time worked. The authorities of the Habsburg monarchy refused to give their consent. Only the great pressure of many communities, the reports on mineral resources and productivity opportunities of the Galician industry, and the demand for qualified personnel have overcome this resistance. As a result, on 31 May 1913 Emperor Francis Joseph I approved the establishment of the Mining School in Krakow. Unfortunately, the outbreak of World War I prevented the university from starting its activities and inauguration, but the pursuits, longings and strong substantive justification exploded in the spring of 1919. Since the beginning of the academy mission, included in the prepared curricula, was theoretical support, emphasis was placed on specialist education and knowledge in the field of law, economics and social sciences. It is not the time to draw the entire history of the present Mining and Steel Academy, but this mission from 100 years ago is still important. Theoretical support, specialized education, knowledge in the field of law, economics and social sciences... Today's language we would say that didactics, research and social mission are being carried out today on 16 modern departments equipped with supermodern laboratories. It's hard for me not to mention a digital computer with a great supercomputer, the thirtieth eighth on the list of the 500 fastest supercomputers in the world, and this section of scientific activity is my responsibility to AGH. The Mining and Hutnicza Academy is ranked first or second in the rankings of Polish technical universities today. The Warsaw University of Technology is the second best university. AGH has 30,000 students, 2,000 scientists, 800 laboratories, 200,000 graduates, and above all unique achievements and numerous patents. That's, among other things. research of the Nestor of the Mining and Steel Academy, Professor Ludger Szklarski. It had numerous patents from the rope survey, which, as you know, are broken and measured by electrical resistance methods of the rope was a way of testing their durability. My patents were more about supercomputer and computer equipment. It is worth mentioning research on nanotubes or even quantum dots, because today scientists on AGH deal with such technologies. AGH has 16 departments, departments covering a lot of areas, ranging from mining and geoengineering, metal engineering, industrial computer science, computer science, electronics and telecommunications to physics, applied computer science, applied mathematics and humanities. We've prepared a resolution. not only to celebrate the anniversary, but also to show the efforts of those times, from 100 years ago and earlier, as well as to encourage contemporary people to make creative efforts to build an information society and a knowledge-based economy. I asked for support, for the signatures of the senators who graduated from the Mining and Steel Academy. I hope I've asked everyone, and thank you very, very much for this support. I would like to present the content of the resolution right now. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland in the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Mining and Steel Academy in Krakow. A hundred years ago, shortly after regaining independence in 1918, the Polish government decided to establish the Mining Academy in Krakow on 8 April 1919. This quick decision was due to the great needs of the Polish economy and the Polish structures of the state and was possible because efforts to establish the Mining Academy in Krakow have lasted for many years. In 1912 a group of outstanding mining engineers and activists led by Jan Zarański initiated procedures for the establishment of a higher education institution of mining engineers in Krakow. These efforts were successfully completed and in 1913. The Ministry of Public Works in Vienna established the Organization Committee of the Mining Academy, which was chaired by Professor of the Jagiellonian University Józef Morozewicz. On May 31, 1913, Emperor Francis Joseph I approved the establishment of a higher mining school in Cracow. As a result of the outbreak of the war, the Mining Academy was not opened, the whole case was postponed to peaceful times, on 21 March 1915, as recorded in the documents of the Kraków Magistrate. After Poland regained its independence in 1918, the Organizing Committee resumed its work and on 8 April 1919 the Council of Ministers chaired by Ignacy Jan Paderewski adopted a resolution on the establishment and start of the Mining Academy in Cracow. On 1 May 1919, Mr Józef Piłsudski appointed her first professors, and on 20 October 1919 he solemnly opened the Mining Academy in the auditorium of the Jagiellonian University. On 15 June 1923, the foundation stone was laid for the construction of the main building of the Mining Academy. The university quickly achieved a high level of education by entering the best European mining schools and its researchers achieved results in many specialties of major importance. Since the very beginning of its existence, the university has worked with industry. Further development of the Mining Academy interrupted the outbreak of World War II. Among the 184 students arrested by the Gestapo professors of Krakow universities, as part of the Krakau Sonderaktion action started on 6 November 1939, there were 18 professors and 3 docents of the Mining Academy, i.e. almost a whole group of scholars at that time. The scientific elite was deported to German concentration camps in Sachsenhausen-Oranienburg and Dachau. Between 1939 and 1945, the main building of the Mining Academy was occupied by the German government of the General Governor. The property of the university was then completely plundered and devastated, and the sculpture of St. Barbara was smashed off the roof of the main building. Thanks to the sacrifice of the employees, only part of the collection was saved. The activities of the Mining Academy went down to the underground underground, and the rector authorities tried to create a provisional housing and material base. In the first months of 1945, the Krakow Mining Academy was a fully organized technical university. It has become a help centre for other technical universities. In 1947, a resolution was adopted to change the name of the university to the University of Górniczo-Hutnicza, whose formal approval by the authorities took place in 1949, and in 1969 the university received the name of Stanisław Staszic. On 14 December 1981, AGH's academic community under the leadership of "Solidarity" protested against the introduction of martial law and the suppression of the fight against freedom. NSZZ.Solidarity AGH was the only one in Krakow and one of several university organizations in the country that organized occupation strikes in the first days of martial law. After 1989, the university became involved in the process of changing. In 1999 the statue of St. Barbara, dedicated to June 17 of this year by St. John Paul II, Dr. Honoris Causa AGH, in the presence of employees and students. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, adopting a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Mining Academy in Krakow, wants to celebrate the merits and daily efforts of many generations of employees and graduates of the Mining Academy and the Mining and Hutnicza Academy, who have served Poland well. We want future generations related to AGH to contribute to the social and economic development of our Nation and State. We hope that the further development of the Mining and Steel Academy will contribute well to the extremely dynamic development of technology and technology, to the building of an information society and a knowledge-based economy, covering all areas of our lives. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I ask you to take this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. And let me remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Kazimierz Wind to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Krystian Probier. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Magnificence Rector! Dear guests! First of all, for everyone who graduated, his Alma Mater is the most important, it's obvious. I have two Alma Mater AGH and the Silesian University of Technology, because right after graduating from the Mining and Steel Academy, I started working at the Silesian University of Technology. I would like to remind you of the great merits of the academy in the creation of my current department, in the creation of the Silesian University of Technology. Since only one of these universities celebrates the jubilee of the century, naturally I will talk about the Mining and Steel Academy. As a graduate of this university, of course, I don't have to explain that I'm only going to talk in superlatives. Forgive me if, unfortunately, in my reflection, which I will present to you here, I will not be able to refer to the entire century of the academy, because I started my studies at the academy in 1969. So I'm asking you to forgive me. I met with the university for the first time during my entrance exams and I will not forget this impression of the monumental building of the A-0 Academy, which does not only impress me very much. I passed the Geological and Searching Faculty, the only time at which technical geology could be studied. The results of the preliminary exams were not known immediately after the exam, so I came back and went on vacation with my colleagues, then hitchhiking, to Strange. And there, ladies and gentlemen, a great event, because at night from 20 to 21 July, like all of that Poland, we could see this small step of man, and a great step of humanity, i.e.... [[Voice from the room: Landing on the Moon.]] ...the landing of a man on the moon. It was emotional. And when I got back from vacation, Like a good Hitchcock movie. Emotions grew and I learned that I became a student of the Mining and Steel Academy. At that time, the number of students from Silesia was not very large, and few were making the effort to study. It didn't disturb my good mood and mood to focus on the so-called. Worker's practice for the New Huta, I've been through it, it's been fun. [[Joy in the Chamber]] When I got back, I started college. I will not forget my first lecture in dynamic geology, I still have it in front of my eyes today: a room filled to the brim, a set, almost like today in the Senate. An old gentleman walks in, distinguished, under a tie, in an apron called a chalatto in Krakow, the whole hall gets up for a greeting, and this gentleman decomposes scientific aids, maps and leaves. After a while, maybe a little less distinguished gentleman comes in, looks, but there's no reaction in the gym, so he says that in our academy it's so customary that students get up to greet the professor. Well, so reluctantly everyone in the gym got up for the second time. And what did it turn out to be? Turns out this gentleman who came in first was famous for picking up the professor's due from the students to greet him. [[I'm the same.]] Well, we called him a prick, actually very decent... But I heard he did it every year in his first lecture. Here's my digression as a longtime academic teacher. Are there still tech workers at the university, ancillary staff, called pikes? How many more students go to lectures? Does the professor still start the lecture in the surroundings of the assistant janitor and candidates for assistants? Whether the students are up, I'm not asking. I don't expect an answer to that. The biggest impression on me, especially during these first weeks of study, was made the celebration of the thirty-year anniversary of the action of the Krakow Sonderaktion, which was mentioned in connection with the arrest by the Germans of 21 AGH professors, including 4 rectors, 1 later rector of the Krakow University of Technology and 2 rectors. Among the imprisoned and exported to Sachsenhausen and Dachau there were also 7 professors of mining and geology, including former Chairman of the Higher Mining Authority, Professor Antoni Meyer. Unfortunately, they didn't all come back from this mess, out of this mess, out of this cathedral. With the new rhythm of life at the university, there was also time for non-scientific classes, e.g. traditional student matches Assistants at the former Cracovia Stadium for a barrel... well, it wasn't a barrel of honey, it was a student organization... not a SZSP, but an organization without the first letter of the SS, because I belonged to the ZSP, as well as an amateur film club and many other organizations. I lived on Reymonta Street, I had close to Błonia in Cracow, with the famous Plachta. [[We do.]] In college, I didn't taste the bread greased with a knife... [[It's a long way from the Warehouse?]] ...but we had this very primitive bread maker, well, known throughout the dorm. I met students and jacks, that is, those eternal students who started their academic year around December... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I'm asking you to enjoy your conversations.]] [[What is this?]] [[Shh...]] ...and it was only because there were magnificent barboro celebrations with the famous fox torch, which led on a white horse probably Docent Żabicki. The famous Barbórki were known not only in Krakow, but also far beyond it. I know that the great concern of the counselors of science at the academy, especially those on the second floor, of such a great dinosaur, was that it should not be damaged after these barboro parties. Unfortunately, after each Barborca in his mouth there was a sandwich. Well, a student can, he cares about animals, he feeds... On the other hand, it's better to feed these dinosaurs than throw rocks at them, isn't it? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Good, good.]] There were also sad moments. In 1970, during the events on the Coast, we didn't know what had happened, because the media at the time didn't give much information, but we knew something important had happened...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u5	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry to say you've been speaking for ten minutes. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm very sorry, but it's my duty. [[Okay, I'll cut it short.]] [[Five more minutes, Mr. Marshal. Five more minutes.]] For an extra five minutes? You're welcome. [[Yes, yes, please.]] Well, I'd love to hear from the senator, but... [[Mr. Marshal, mercy.]] Mr. Senator, they're all in the same order. Ten minutes are up. Sign up for the next five minutes if you want to speak. Thank you very much. Please take... [[I'm a legalist, and I'm following the boss's decision.]] I've always obeyed, obeyed, and obeyed the rules. [[Five more minutes.]] [[I'm signing up again.]] [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After this wonderful speech by Senator Probier, I am in a somewhat difficult situation, but I would also like to say that although I personally did not study at AGH, I had family representatives who studied there. And I would like to return to the subject of our deliberations, and therefore to this commemorative resolution on the occasion of the century of AGH, first of all very warmly thank Professor Wind, who always reminds the High House of such important events in our collective life. I would also like to say that the Mining and Hutnicza Academy, as it is currently called, and previously the Mining Academy is part of the landscape of Polish technical universities, whose beginning dates back to 1816, i.e. the Academy and Mining School founded in 1816 by the great Polish scholar Stanisław Staszic. So in a sense it refers to this great tradition, the more that, as we know, the Świętokrzyski subregion was such an old Polish mineral mining site, there was mining industry. It is also worth mentioning that the second technical university in Polish lands was founded in 1844 by the Technical Academy in Lviv, which turned into a Technical School in 1877. Finally, Warsaw has rich traditions. In 1898 the Institute of Polytechnic was established, which in 1915 was transformed into the Warsaw University of Technology. I'm talking about this panorama to show that we have a rich tradition when it comes to technical higher education. And I also mention this. Especially when it comes to the 19th century. That many outstanding Polish engineers studied at foreign universities, among others. from Russian admissions, from the Ryska University of Technology or from Dorpat. These were universities with relatively high corporate and academic freedom. But in this resolution, which Professor Kazimierz Wiatr proposed to us, I would like to draw attention to the tragic moment in Krakow's history, in the history of Poland, namely the export of Polish professors by the Germans. And it has to be said here that it was an unprecedented action when it comes to the history of Polish science. She touched over 20 professors and professors of the Mining and Hutnicza Academy in Krakow, and in total she took over 180 professors of Krakow universities. I'd like to point out one of those professors. Here I am thinking of Edward Windakiewicz, who was the oldest in this group of Kraków professors. He was born in 1858 in Pech. His father was the director of the mine in Pech and later in Bochnia. He died in Bochnia in 1876 saving the salt mine in Bochnia from a fire. The 17-year-old Edward Windakiewicz, a junior, inherited mining interests from his father. He graduated from the Austro-Hungarian Empire, followed the entire path of a practical professional career in the mining industry, in salt mines. In 1920, at the invitation of the then Rector of the Mining and Hutnicza Academy, he was asked to conduct lectures in solo and halourgy, as it was said then. He has developed a monumental work, five-volume, dedicated to this particular issue. Interestingly, in 1931, and so when he was over 70 years old, he was habilitation at the Mining and Hutnicza Academy and, as I mentioned, he was the oldest professor in the group of Cracow professors. I am talking about this because in this resolution we could mention many outstanding Polish engineers, people of science, people who gave special importance to Polish science and Polish technical thought. Please also note when the Mining and Hutnicz Academy was founded, the Mining Academy was originally established. It was created at the beginning of the independent Second Republic of Poland. Who nominated the first professors? Marshal Józef Piłsudski. Please note that not only the Mining Academy... It was a little earlier. Catholic University of Lublin. The integration of Polish universities, which then worked, took place. And please pay attention to the awareness of the leadership elites of the then reborn Polish state And we're still celebrating the century of independence after 123 years of captivity. And how light the elites of that time were and how much emphasis they put on rebuilding or creating staffs of Polish intelligence in various areas. Not only in technical sciences, but also in humanities, biological, medical, legal, philosophical sciences. This shows how strong the position of Polish science during this period, how great was respect for Polish scientists and how many they could achieve. I thank the professor once again for this initiative and for the opportunity to pay tribute to those great people who carried Polish science, Polish technical thought to the highest level. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u8	Magnificence, Mr. Rector! It is so in the Senate that we commemorate from time to time the most important events concerning Poland and Poles. And today it is time for the Mining and Hutnicza Academy, which belongs to these symbols of reborn Poland. The Mining and Hutnicza Academy could have been a technical university by now. Many talked about it, many suggested it, but the academy is tied to its brand Not without reason, because this brand is a commodity, it is the flagship of the Polish technical thought and didactics in this area. Therefore, as Senate, not only do we pay attention to this university today, but we also pay due respect to everything that has been done since the establishment of AGH in the university itself and what has been done by this university in Poland. I would like to say three points that I consider essential. Firstly, I would like to stress the creative use of this Staszic foundation, this belief that Poles and Poland need a modern elite, engineering elite, creatively thinking elite, thinking modern and spreading technical knowledge around them. Not only humanities, but also technical knowledge is the basis for the development of the country and the nation. This mission of the Mining and Hutnicza Academy has been doing well since its inception. Secondly, the Mining and Steel Academy can be considered not only as an institution that keeps up over time, but also in many moments ahead of its time. It is enough to mention how humanities were introduced to the university after 1989. Its authorities assumed that, after all, there is also a need for a humanistic basis for technical thought. It was a great achievement of the then rector authorities and Senate of the Mining and Steel Academy. Other universities were also going in this direction, but the Mining and Hutnicza Academy was one of the first. On the other hand, the third issue, which seems fundamental to me, is to extend the spectrum of AGH activities to such areas as are crucial for the development of our country. I am thinking, above all, of the five different departments that are currently being educated in computer science. It's not like this one basic computer department is the school's business card. As many as 5 different departments learn computer science students and research is carried out in this field, and, after all, how much in society, especially among young people, this IT idea will be promoted, it is necessary to follow Poland with the spirit of time, depending on our presence in the international market both in scientific and technical fields. I said three things, but there's a fourth thing I'd like to mention. The motto of the Mining and Steel Academy is to use its scientific and teaching achievements in practice. This is what many Polish universities lack. This is what is practiced at Western universities, from America to Western European universities, where theory is linked to practice. The Mining and Steel Academy can do that. The Mining and Hutnicza Academy is a pioneer in this respect. Finally, I will conclude by saying that the Mining and Hutnicza Academy also ensures that its graduates, their retired professors, provide a decent relationship with the university. On behalf of my father, retired professor of the Mining and Steel Academy, I would like to thank the university authorities very warmly for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Magnificence Rector! The Rectors! In fact, I was wondering whether to speak, but my neighbor, my colleague, Professor Probierz's speech moved me to say two words. As it happens, I started studying at AGH exactly 10 years later than my colleague, which was 40 years ago, in 1979. These were computer science studies. Back then, it was the beginning of computer science. My previous speaker, Senator Klich, spoke about today's AGH achievements in this area. It all started 40 years ago. I was in my second year of computer science, and I can only confirm that AGH was extremely serious. That seriousness has been beating from the very beginning. I remember my first visit to the building of AGH on Mickiewicz Avenue, such a slightly overwhelming building, symbolizing the seriousness of what college is. Today's universities would like to be so serious, too, and we're in a bit of trouble. Old patterns are worth returning to. In the early 1980's, AGH was well educated, which is a tangible proof that, unfortunately, many of my friends and colleagues in the 1980's, these somewhat bleak years, were going abroad. Everyone who was after computer science at AGH found excellent employment in the United States and in the West of Europe. It was a meter and a testimonial of how she trained AGH. I wish the Rector... I am convinced that the good quality of education and learning continues. I'd like to mention one more thing. Studies are, of course, first of all science, but studies are also more than that. It's also about entering into public life, it's about civic education. Then, in the early 1980s, AGH was a place where... For me, this place was incredibly important. Although I was still graduating from the Jagiellonian University and I was at other universities, also abroad, the formation that I took out of AGH is very important to me. It was a turbulent time because it was a time of solidarity. I was a sophomore at the time, it was a period of very intensive studies. It was a tough college, really. And I may have been a little sidetracked by these events, but I've already taken part in a student strike that took place in 1981, before the martial law. It was a big school of life. We've been sitting in AGH buildings for, like, two weeks, in our department buildings. There's been a lot of meetings. Then martial law was introduced. Some of us, I was in this group too, was in Nowa Huta and joined the strike of the workers. I won't forget... It is worth mentioning here the attitude of the Rector Antoni Klekkowski, who came to the students on 13 December morning. His attitude was extraordinary. After 40 years, it's hard to say It's not a big deal. So that AGH has its strength, its seriousness. Congratulations, Mr. Rector. I am glad to be able to attend this ceremony together today in the Senate. I wish you another 100 years of such fruitful activities for the academic community and for the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree that the Mining and Steel Academy is a great university. It started with training in the metallurgical and coal industries, and at the moment these are new technologies, computer science. This is an important and very good college, but that's not what I'm gonna talk about. I don't like the increased Senate resolution... [[It's not about that.]] Saints, universities... There are many graduates here, as well as many employees, various universities. Senator Wind, who is an employee of the Mining and Steel Academy, proposes this resolution. Of course he can, and I might object. You can say that each of your nests praises. I want to go to the text of the draft resolution. There is a concept here, a phrase has been introduced here, which raises my reservation: the German occupation government... Are we the ones who recognize the German occupation government with this resolution? How can you write in the resolution of the Senate's occupied German government, which... Well, the Prime Minister of this government was Hans Frank, who was sentenced to death. It is worth to have a historian take a look at this draft of such a historical resolution. We cannot write in the Senate's resolution the German occupation government. They were occupied authorities. The best way to put it is to give some reality. I propose an amendment, which is to replace the words of the "occupational government" with the words of the "occupational authorities." Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: So it was the Poles who did it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u14	I don't know if Marshal Bielan will be as strict as you are, but I'll try to shorten my speech just in case. Mr. Marshal, I would like to refer to Professor Bobka's statement. This greatest value for AGH students is the possibility of contact with excellent professors, with great personalities. Professor Bobko mentioned one such personality here. I would like to mention three, very briefly. Well, I've been in touch with Professor Valery Goetl. At nature conservation seminars. It is worth recalling here that Professor Valery Goetel, the rector of the Academy in 1939 and 1951, was the creator of the world-famous science of environmental protection, nature, or sozology. I had the opportunity to attend his lectures. To me, it was extracurricular activities. The second great personality I had the opportunity to encounter was Professor Andrzej Bolewski, the creator of the state geological service. It was an outstanding person. The professor, a miner by education, a remodeler, gave great credit to our country, because he was a participant in the Potsdam conference. Together with Professor Walery Goetl, they presented to the Americans a little doubting the possibility of developing the wealth of Lower and Upper Silesia, very accurate information including geological and mining maps and a list of engineers and employees working in this industry. This caused the Americans to withdraw their reservations and we were able to make the Western and Lower Silesian or Upper Silesian lands without any obstacles. The third person I would like to mention was the promoter of my diploma work, Professor Stanisław Zbigniew Stopa, a prominent paleontologist, an expert in papal plants and geology of the Upper Silesian Coal Basin. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. Namely, at one of the previous Senate meetings, we declared 2019 the Year of Mathematics. Professor Kazimierz Wind presented this brilliantly, but during the discussion, as far as I remember, there were reservations that the role of the Mining Academy was overly exposed in the context of this Year of Mathematics. I would like to add an argument that would strengthen Professor Kazimierz Wind's arguments. Well, students of the first year of geology invented, you might say, an innovative way of dividing time. Namely, our unit of time were apples, which remained to eat the lecturer of this subject. Time was divided into apples until the end of the lecture. And in conclusion, I would like to say one more thing. It is not often that you can perform in the Senate of the Republic of Poland and present data about your Alma Mater in its century. And it's not often that this can be done in the 50th anniversary of starting a course at the Mining and Steel Academy. Mr. Rector, on your hands, I wish you all the best, the happiness of God's Mining and Steel Academy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u16	Dear guests! Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! As a historian, I feel called by Mr. Marshal Borusewicz to comment on his words. Mr. Marshal, I have a great request, just as a historian, that we may properly adopt this very beautiful resolution for us, because it concerns one of the most important, best universities with this profile in Poland. I also ask, Mr. Marshal, that we maintain some measure regarding our mutual, internal relations. There is no doubt that the German occupation existed on Polish lands, that these governments were not Polish, but German. And it seems to me that trying to find a way to undermine... the moment we have. At least in the Senate Thanks to such resolutions, i.e. a moment of certain conformity of thinking about the past of Poland... These moments are much more important than your desire to stand out, Mr. Marshal, to be present at this pulpit. [[Applause]] So please, Mr. Marshal, I ask you to refrain from making this amendment... [[Oh, no.]] ...and we will no doubt be grateful to you. Because the ability to withdraw is sometimes more valuable than the ability to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u17	Thank you very much. Senator Wind... [[Mr. Marshal, come back.]] There's no such thing as reprisals. [[But there's something else, you know what?]] You may speak again. You're entitled to a second vote. I can write you down. [[Mr. Marshal, correct, of course.]] But the correction concerns misunderstood... [[The senator misunderstood my words.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u18	The senator understood that I wanted to get out of this resolution. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I don't know what I'm gonna do. Mr. Senator, I would also suggest maintaining some proportions, some proportions in the assessment of other senators. And you've crossed the line. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u19	That wasn't a correction, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator... Who's next? [[Voice from the room: Senator Wind.]] Senator Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll be very brief. Vice-Marshal Borusewicz has just said a few thoughts to which it is difficult not to address. The first one was that there were too many resolutions. Well, it's a decision. Chambers, this is the Senate's decision. And those resolutions that we consider necessary, we take. And I must say that there were other resolutions concerning not only AGH, the marshal remembers that. So it's not that it's private. I would like to repeat what I once said: that the resolution in the century of the establishment of the Mining and Steel Academy is not a resolution in conjunction with reflection, but a resolution with an important civilization dimension, because we are showing some directions for the development of our society, nation and state. This is an important indication for adults, for young people, for students. This is important. Well, you said here that the saints... Well, I don't know why you're celebrating a marshal. It's hard for me to comment. And yet many beautiful characters, forgotten, are restored to the public presence. As for the wording that you have questioned here, Professor Żaryn has already spoken, I thank him very much for that. Of course, when preparing the text of the resolution, we used historical studies. And this is the most historical, correct formulation. We know that authority is a broader concept. During that time, Hans Frank was in Wawel, where he exercised his authority. So it's very specific. And I think that to every thought, to each sentence you can submit a separate sentence. Yes, you can. But here in the Senate, we work as a team, but this requires some self-limitation, recognition of some wisdom of the majority. That's what I'm asking. And once again, I am joining Senator Zarin's request that you withdraw this amendment. And if that doesn't happen, I'm gonna apply for another reading at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Magnificence, Mr. Rector! Mr. and Mrs. Viceroy! High Senate! Maybe I won't start with this great anniversary of the Mining and Steel Academy, but since yesterday. At the beginning of the Senate meeting, we adopted a resolution on the 10th anniversary of the death of Prof. Zbigniew Religion, a man of great compromise, a man who placed the affairs of the state, the affairs of a man suffering in the foreground, a man who was open to people of all political directions, a man who was for another man. And I think this is a lesson for today. It is also an opportunity to understand what for the country, for you at a time when we celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, is to show such wonderful examples as the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Mining and Steel Academy. This is what brick by brick built the power of the independent Republic, the power of human potential; people wanted to work in different places for their homeland. Referring to the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Hutnicza Academy, I would like to draw attention to one very important element which I think has not sounded enough in all these statements, despite the very important words that have been said. And once again, I would like to thank Professor Kazimierz Wind as the initiator and all graduates of the Hutnicza University for the fact that we are adopting this resolution today. Namely, High Senate, in the case of Hutnicza Academy, it is not only about its role in itself. She is of great importance for the construction of identity, and I think that also, especially after 1989, for the reconstruction of Polish technical thought in smaller industrial centers. It is not by chance that the great Stanisław Staszic created an academy in Kielce, in the Old Polish Industrial District, where it reaches the deepest history and Polish mining, and Polish steel industry. To this day, in August in Nowa Słupi, Dymarki Świętokrzyskie is held as a demonstration of the process of creating the foundations of the Polish steel industry. And this role, especially graduates of the Mining and Steel Academy, for building industrial identity in smaller centres such as Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, where there is steelworks... No graduates, no great people who connect the academy to the local, industrial environment... I'll mention one name here. The designer of wagons, Professor Mieczysław Radwan, who is the creator of the Museum of the Academy-Górniczo Hutnicza; he is the best example of combining practice and science. At this point I would also like to thank Professor Mirosław Karbowiczk very much for his annual presence during the celebration of the Hutnik Day in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, where there is one of the largest steelworks in Poland. Showing the reconstruction of the Polish industry especially in the mining area is, in my opinion, a way of showing these elites created or educated by the Mining and Steel Academy for 100 years. Magnificence, Mr. Rector, I wish you another good anniversary. Happy birthday. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u23	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Marshal Borusewicz has submitted a legislative proposal. Since a legislative proposal has been submitted, the Senate is sending a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Senator Wind has requested that the committee draw up an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear any objection, I will consider the Senate to accept the motion. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a recess until 10:30. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u24	The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of proposals submitted at the Senate meeting for the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Mining and Steel Academy in Krakow will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 182. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 06 to 10 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u25	I'm extending the recess to 10.35. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 30 to 10 minutes 35]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I propose to supplement the agenda with items: Act amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war period and certain other laws and consider this item as item twenty-six of the agenda; Act amending the Public Roads Act and consider this item as item twenty-seven of the agenda. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. High Izbo, we are back to discussing item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Mining and Steel Academy in Krakow. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 1061 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u26	Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the committee requests that the amendment be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u27	Thank you very much. Do you, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, as the applicant, want to speak yet? [[Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Then we shall proceed to the vote. In the first place, the amendment will be voted on, in the order of the text, in print No 1061 X and then in the adoption of the draft, in full, as amended by the adopted amendment. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz in print no. 1061 X. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 68 senators voted in favour, 19 against, 47 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] The amendment was rejected. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Mining and Steel Academy in Krakow Print No 1061 S, i.e. without this amendment. [[Voice from the room: Yet...]] Yes? Is everything okay? Good. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 69 senators voted, 67 were in favour, one senator was against and one senator abstained. [[Voting No 3]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Mining and Steel Academy in Krakow. Please approach the presidial table of the rector of the Mining and Steel Academy, Mr Tadeusz Słomka. I'd like to give you a resolution from the Senate. You're welcome. I'll go see the principal. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] High Izbo, I'm announcing a short technical recess until 10.45. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 39 to 10 minutes 45]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: information about the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017. The text of the information is provided in print No 1067. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Legislative Commission. The Commission took note of the information submitted at its meeting on 12 February 2019 and informed the Senate Marshal accordingly. I would like to warmly welcome the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Julia Przyłębska, present at the Senate meeting. Welcome very much, Madam President. [[Applause]] I ask the President to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as aggregate information is concerned, all the information, I'm sure you're familiar with it. Therefore, allow me to present only the most important elements of this information. In 2017, the Constitutional Tribunal issued a total of 408 judgments in substantive proceedings, including 36 judgments, 53 orders to terminate the proceedings, 1 signalling order, 178 provisions to refuse to grant the application to the public in full or in part, 98 provisions not to make a complaint against the above provisions. All judgments shall contain justifications. I am talking about this because many times I have been asked questions in the context of comparison with the activities of constitutional tribunals in other countries of the European Union. For example, in the Federal Republic of Germany, a large proportion of the judgments contain no justification. In addition, the Court has dealt with 496 so-called. apparent complaints, in addition to the formal procedure, by providing detailed answers in cases relating to citizens' complaints to judicial decisions, administrative decisions, for example caused by the long-term nature of proceedings resulting from a sense of injustice, powerlessness in relation to the activities of judicial authorities and authorities, complaints about social exclusion. I'm talking about it because there are a lot of complaints. Of course, the Constitutional Tribunal, in accordance with our procedure and competence, cannot resolve such complaints in substance, unlike the constitutional tribunal, for example. The Federal Republic of Germany, where such direct actions against judgments are possible, specific judgments of the courts. Although the German Court does not deal with such complaints, even if there is a large number, it is a small proportion. In 2017, a total of 285 applications, legal questions and constitutional complaints were received by the Constitutional Tribunal. These are the three forms initiating proceedings before the Polish Constitutional Tribunal. In 2017, the Council The Court has arranged, among others, for the Court of Justice. cases from previous years at the substantive audit stage: 7 cases from 2013, 10 cases from 2014, 32 cases from 2015 and 28 cases from 2016. In 2017, the Council The Court has identified 2 cases in the framework of preventive control. One concerned the failure to comply with the standards of the legislative procedure for the examination by the Sejm of the Senate amendments. The second case in question concerned one of the fundamental freedoms of man in a democratic state, namely freedom of assembly. The judges, judging in three-person and five-person formations and in full compositions, spent Each of them from 61 to 11 judgments terminating the proceedings. Differences in the case-law statistics of individual judges result from the fact that not all judges have been adjudicated throughout the year. In 2017, 2 judges died during their term of office: Judge Lech Morawski died in July 2017, Judge Henryk Cioch This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth Three judges, Judge Jędrejek, Judge Piskorski and Judge Andrzej Zielecki, began their term of office. Judge Andrzej Wróbel also passed away in January 2017. I will immediately say here that when the judge ends his term of office, he leaves the so-called. Decernate, that's your business. It is therefore the duty of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal under the law to issue a new Judge-Rapporteur. That's why there's so many of these regulations. In 2017, a statutory reorganisation was carried out, i.e. the liquidation of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal and the formation of the Registry of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Office of the Legal Service of the Constitutional Tribunal. It was a very important procedure. Indeed, it required an extremely large involvement of all the members of the Constitutional Tribunal. In connection with this reorganisation, only a few people have found no place in the new structure. Again, a few people. And we didn't have any proceedings in this area before the labour court. In 2017, work contracts were no longer concluded with persons not employed in the Constitutional Tribunal for the preparation of the draft judgment with justification. Such practices have occurred in previous years. We're done with that. It was also necessary to restore the application of the rule of separate signature of the operative part of the order and its justification. This obvious and standard institution in all judicial procedures Not only in Poland, but more broadly, in the European circle of legal culture It was not used in the activities of the Court. Sentences of the provisions in the proceedings in the so-called. prior checking as well as the termination provisions have not yet been signed, only their justification has been signed. This practice should have been terminated. And at the conclusion of these statistics, I would like to tell you that our competence and procedure of the Polish Constitutional Tribunal are in principle not directly comparable with those structures in other European countries. We are closest to the Italian tribunal by procedure and competence. And in 2017, we passed all these judgments over 400, and the Italian Court over 281. With regard to judgments given at the stage of substantive review in 2017, in all cases by individual judges, Judge Henryk Cioch gave them 24, Judge Jędrejek, 38, Judge Jędrzejewski, Judge Kieres, 50, Judge Morawski, 17, Judge Muszyński, 33, Judge Piskorski, 9, I issued 43, Judge Pszczółkowski, 55, Judge Pyziak-Szafnicka, 44, Judge Rymar, 39, Judge Tuleja, 35, Judge Warciński, Judge Wronkowska, 41, Judge Zielonacki, 14th Judge. The year 2017 was the year of stabilisation of the Court. On the one hand, this was supported by the normative peace of mind as regards the rules governing proceedings before the Court, on the other hand, the judgments of the Court itself have also been affected by the stabilisation. In its judgment of 24 October 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/1499 [2] appointing the The Court has confirmed that the judge of the Court elected by the Sejm, who has taken his oath to the President, takes up the duties of the judge and that it is the duty of the President of the Constitution to assign him cases, as the judge is independent in the performance of his duties and is subject only to the Constitution. In its judgment of 11 September 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/1499 [2] The Court held that the appointment of the President of the Court and the Vice-President from among the candidates submitted by the General Assembly were the prerogatives of the President, who are not subject to review by the General Court and the Supreme Court. The resolution of these problems, which have so far polarised public opinion, has enabled the Court to work normally and to settle matters that are important to citizens. It is worth noting that most of the judgments in 2017 were filed in proceedings initiated by constitutional complaints. This is the area where the citizen has a direct impact on the case initiated by the Constitutional Tribunal. In 2017, the Court reminded the legislators of the need to protect weaker parties. The Court recalls that these entities are workers who, by nature, have a weaker position vis-à-vis their employer. They are also families in a difficult material situation, especially many children and underprivileged ones. But they are also people at risk of homelessness. In its judgment of 18 October 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/1499 [2] appointing the The Court stressed that the right to housing, although belonging to economic and social rights, is undoubtedly linked with respect for the dignity of the human person. A man deprived of an apartment, sufficient resources to buy food or treatment, has no chance of a decent life. For this reason, the Court has ruled that certain provisions on enforcement in the administration are non-constitutional because of the lack of rules guaranteeing at least minimum protection against homelessness for persons who are unable to meet their own housing needs. The Court asked the competent public authorities to take particular account of the needs of persons with disabilities and their carers. In its communication order of 17 October 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of The Court made observations to the Sejm on the appropriateness of legislative action to regulate the reimbursement of the cost of travelling for disabled pupils and their guardian to educational establishments. The provisions in force allowed the reimbursement rates of carriage to be fixed according to different criteria and consequently at different levels, sometimes at such a low level, that the amount of the refund was so significantly different from the costs actually incurred by the parents that it led to a reduction in the substance of the right to reimbursement granted to parents. From a constitutional point of view, it is necessary to equalise educational opportunities in such a way as to ensure equal access to such forms of public authorities. The Court stressed the need to fully empower the individual in the proceedings before the judicial authorities, in particular if there are issues relating to the restriction of freedom. In its judgment of 22 March 2017, it ruled that the applicant's right to participate in a court hearing on the enforcement of a safeguard measure was not to be deprived of its right to remain in a closed psychiatric facility. The Court reminded the legislator that personal freedom is the foundation of constitutional freedoms, the restriction of which must be subject to thorough judicial review. This check must provide for the possibility of the person concerned being actively involved in it. The Court stressed the particular importance of human freedom and personal immunity. In order to ensure the proper protection of the individual against the arbitraryness of the authority, in its judgment of 14 December 2017, the Court ordered the legislator to amend the rules governing the search of persons, to carry out personal checks and to search vehicles. In questioning the sufficient precision of these provisions, the Court postponed the expiry of their existing force, giving the legislator a time limit for the necessary amendments. At the same time, the Court has obliged the legislator to ensure appropriate mechanisms for judicial review of the application of these measures. The Court recalled the importance of citizens' confidence in the state and the law. The essence of this principle is to provide citizens with a stable legal environment, security based on legal certainty, allowing them to plan their own actions wisely and to anticipate the actions of state authorities. In its judgment of 14 December 2017 In 2015, the Court contested the levying of fees for the issue of a new driving licence as a result of a change in the data contained therein due to the operation of local authorities. In the Court's view, if the need to exchange such documents is not a consequence In accordance with the principle of state loyalty to citizens, these fees should not be charged to their holders. In that judgment, the Court also required the legislator to review the legal system with a view to the existence of other similar rules with a view to their immediate collective amendment. The judgments presented do not, of course, cover the rich spectrum of issues relevant to citizens and the state, as their communities, which the Court decided in 2017. However, they clearly show that, contrary to the allegations raised, the Court does not only act properly but also ensures that its case-law protects the freedoms and constitutional rights of citizens and the proper functioning of the authorities of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much. Madam President, you'll be kind enough to stay at the podium because... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Good.]] I'm sure there'll be questions. The senators are enrolled. Would any of you senators like to ask the president a question? I would like to remind you that the questions must concern information about the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017 and must not last more than 1 minute. You're welcome, Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question about what's not in this report, and I think it should be. The fifth judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, Judge Leon Kieres, Piotr Pszczółkowski, Małgorzata Pyziak-Szafnicka, Judge Stanisław Rymar and Piotr Tuleja, brought a separate opinion to this report, but their request that these comments be included in the report did not find the recognition of the President. I would like to ask why this separate sentence is not included in the information. After all, it concerns very vital matters, I would say, fundamental matters from the point of view of the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. I will not go into the details of the five judges' letter, I will refer to him during my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u31	Thank you very much. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Can I answer right away?]] No, I'd suggest... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: No? Good.]] ...a series of questions from three senators. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u32	Madam President, in the seventh amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, in December 2016, a completely new concept appeared, not in the Constitution, namely: acting in this case as President of the Constitutional Tribunal. In 2017, and therefore during the period covered by this report, the President was elected despite the fact that the Constitution clearly states that, at the time of the absence of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, he is the Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal. This one was then, and it was Professor Stanisław Biernat. Do you think this institution is constitutional? [[It's been a minute, Mr. Senator. Please proceed to...]] I'd like your opinion on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u33	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u34	Judge, I'm asking for a specific answer. Following a proposal from a group of senators regarding the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act on 25 January 2017, you issued an order of appointment in place of the full membership of the Court of Five Members. I ask what was the legal basis for such a change with this kind of fundamental, systemic act. This is about what you said, that the provisions are justified along with the legal basis. I'm asking for a specific answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u35	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u36	Okay, I'll start with the judge's letter. The letter of judges was not, in the view of the separate court, a letter which was submitted to the minutes. It was not adopted by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal as part of the annual information. The assembly adopted such a resolution. The letter as such is attached to the protocol. I answered this letter, for many others, many times, so that I would allow you to send this correspondence to the senator. Again, it wasn't a separate sentence, it was a letter. He does not form part of this resolution in accordance with the resolution of the General Assembly. And another question concerning the election of the President of the Court. As regards the person in charge, this was the case in 2016, I was elected President of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016. This is the first case. Second thing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my general answer. With regard to informing the State whether or not something is constitutional, the principle is accepted by the general court judge, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Tribunal only in the form and scope of the law and constitution, i.e. in the form of judgment and order. As for questions about specific judgments or my constitutional judgment... As far as these judgments are concerned, I will also allow myself to forward these rulings to the senator. The last question was about changing stores. Ladies and gentlemen, once she started her act, the new law was in effect, it was her order... It is always ordered by law because, according to the Constitution, it regulates the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitution itself does not contain any provisions that regulate the functioning, i.e. lay down a procedure which is adopted and used by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. So if such arrangements were Because the composition does not change on the basis of the order, but of the order, and this has always been the case in the Court's operation. I would like to say that such arrangements result directly, strictly from the law, the change of composition never occurs out of date. There are various forms of change in composition when it comes to numbers, but there was certainly no situation here that was against the law. At the same time I'm just sending back, I'm not going to talk about the details anymore, but I'm going to let the senators send this to me, it's about a famous change of composition without any legal basis, on a so-called basis. a state of higher necessity, and it wasn't me, it was Mr. President Rzepliński. I'll send it all to you. I would therefore like to say once again that there has been no change in composition in accordance with the envisaged procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. [[There's no answer. You didn't answer the question about the legal basis, without the grounds...]] I heard the president answered. [[You didn't answer. In writing, please.]] Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Marshal, I asked for a legal basis.]] I'm sorry, but I didn't say... Mr. Senator, I heard that answer. Senator Comfort. [[Yes. There's no basis...]] Mr. Senator, don't comment. Okay? Senator Comfort, one minute, actually 22 seconds... I'm losing it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u38	Thank you. Judge, I have a question. Over the years, a report for a given year has been presented in this House the following year. You are presenting us today with a report for 2017. You submitted a report in 2019. [[Voice from the room: A in 2020...]] I believe that this is a disregard for our House. I would like to know why we are learning about the 2017 topics with such a delay. I would also like to know when you will report for 2018, because now is the time. [[This appropriation is ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u40	Madam President, Art. 190 of the Constitution clearly states that the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal have universal force and are final. The Constitution also states that it should be published immediately. However, some of them were not published immediately, and in one of the amendments to the law was adopted by a majority in both chambers, that the judgments would be published, but with an annotation they lost the force in force. What kind of legal structure is that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u41	Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u42	Thank you. In 2017, there were examples of scattered constitutional control in which common courts apply the constitution directly in their judgments, replacing the Constitutional Tribunal to this extent. In this case, the Constitutional Tribunal has taken a position. There was a statement signed by your judge on the Court's pages. I'd like your opinion. In June 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) The Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw, examining the case from the end of 2017, ruled, among others, that the Vice-President of the Court Mariusz Muszyński is not entitled to sit in the Constitutional Court. I would like to ask your opinion on one and the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u43	You're welcome. That question doesn't concern information, but it's already... [[For 2016 information]] Okay, okay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u44	As for the adoption of annual information, the rules... Indeed, this happened late, but the rules do not indicate any date when it comes to procedures. That's what it looks like. The General Assembly adopted this in December. Also last December there was a general assembly meeting with the president, which is why I am only presenting this now. When it comes to preparing information for 2018, we are in the middle of work. The team that is working on this is in the process of developing it, and I can tell you that because there are no organisational and additional actions of the Constitutional Tribunal at the moment, it will certainly be done much earlier. When it comes to questions concerning judgments of 2016... If there were such publications, they were due to a statutory obligation and as if they were not related to the Constitutional Tribunal. It was not the Constitutional Tribunal that decided in this area, it was the law order when it came to the publication of judgments. As regards the direct examination of the constitutionality of the rules by common courts, this position is my position and has not changed. As far as a specific ruling is concerned, I will read the judgment. I don't have it right now. If I consider that I can comment on this decision in substance outside the procedure, I will do so in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is as follows. I am often asked questions about a specific rule and its constitutionality. Please understand that there are 15 judges. If I comment on the constitutionality of any decision outside the judgment, then it will be the basis, and often so, to at least submit a request for exclusion, indicating that I had previously said so. Therefore, I avoid such explicit statements of substance. I also do so here, in this area, with regard to this particular sentence. We're gonna find out and I'm gonna give you some information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u45	Thank you. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Madam President, could the President tell you how the President will behave if some government does not publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u47	Please, Madam President. This question absolutely does not concern information. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: But I can answer.]] There you go, you can answer, although I do not oblige the President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u48	Mr. Senator, I will act in accordance with applicable law. I always act in accordance with applicable law. I can make such a commitment here that I will certainly act in accordance with the applicable law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u49	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Florek, and then Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u50	Judge, the first year of your activity, 2017, has been the worst year since 1998 for the Constitutional Tribunal in terms of the number of judgments handed down. You said there were 36 of them. I'm on page 80, in the annex, I see In respect of judgments given in full composition That this was not only the worst year in terms of number, but also in terms of full composition. Only 2 sentences in 2017 were given in full, and in previous years, as I see here, about 10 sentences were issued in this way. Why don't you tell me why... What changed so suddenly in the first year of your business that it was the worst year in terms of the number of convictions? Why have you only handed down sentences twice in full? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Boris-Damięcka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u52	Thank you. Can you hear me? [[Yeah, I can hear you.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three questions that may seem very primitive, but I would ask for a serious approach to answer these questions, because these are so-called questions. citizens, from people I presume to They are not lawyers, they are citizens and lack some knowledge of the Constitutional Tribunal, and they would like to hear from the judge the answers to these questions. The first question is: whose authority is the Court from today's point of view? I would like to point out that I have this information that these people have listened to the report by your judge both in the Seym and today in the Senate. Whose body is the Court? Second question: what does the Court do, what is its task? And the third question is: what or who should the Court protect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u53	Thank you very much. Well, these aren't questions about... Senator, with all due respect, these are not questions about information. These are general questions, however... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damianka: Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, general questions...]] Mrs. Senator... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka:...but resulting from the content of the report that your judge presented, because these were mainly numbers, statistics...]] ...Summary, but I have... In my opinion, that's why... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka:...etc., that's why people are asking questions.]] Senator, I didn't give you the floor, we're not having a debate, we're not having a discussion. You asked the question, I question the point of asking such questions. But please, if the judge thinks it's appropriate, he'll answer, but he doesn't have to. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much. Now, Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u54	Thank you. I have a question about page 49. On page 49, there is a graph of the Senate's legislative initiatives to bring the right into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. This has been quite interesting since 2007, the last year in which the majority had Law and Justice. And, Judge, in 2007 there were 3 such initiatives at the Constitutional Court, then, by 2015, the number of initiatives ranged between 15 and 26 per year. In the last three years, there's been... In 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the Also 4 and in 2017 5. Can you assess this situation? Have you ever wondered why there's only so many of them? How do you feel about a situation where so few... [[Good. Thank you, Senator. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] ...the initiative is at the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u55	...we understand. Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u56	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question, Judge, regarding page 47, paragraph 1. 1.1.3. In this regard, the Court points out the need for legislative intervention and the procedure for the election of candidates for the position of the First President of the Supreme Court by the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court to meet the standards of the Constitution. I'd like some information about that sentence...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u57	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u58	So, yeah... As far as the number of judgments is concerned, as I said, the Constitutional Tribunal does not only deliver judgments, but also orders, and is still dealing with the recognition of the so-called. apparent complaints. And with regard to the specific number of judgments, she, so to speak, does not come directly from the activities of the President, but from the judicial activities of all judges. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, when I came to the Court, we had cases in 2013 and many cases in 2014. Often these are matters that require reflection, even if it seems to someone who is watching it from the side, that it is a trivial matter. But since the formation of the adjudicator it leans on this case for a long time, it means that it is working and that it is not simple enough to be resolved immediately. That's one thing. The second point is the question of the stability of the law, because the number of cases dealt with is related to the number of applications, constitutional complaints and legal questions submitted. If the situation is that some laws... In 2015, e.g. the rules related to the gambling law have aroused enormous emotions of society and applications for constitutionality of these laws have been very much. That is why there is a direct link between legislation in a given period and, as I say again, the work of judges. I just want to remind you... I didn't talk about that anymore. I don't want to go back to it all the time so that someone didn't think I had any special attachment to this argument, but he was also important. These were, you might say, disproportionate to the applicable rules of vacation leave. This problem also had to be resolved under existing law. There is no reason... and it cannot be that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal function and use their leave differently than the citizens. And all these elements had an impact on the functioning and issuing of judgments by the Constitutional Tribunal. As far as issues related to the Senate legislative initiative are concerned, I would not like to assess this legislative initiative, because it is directly based on the activities of the Senate. I understand that any entity with a legislative initiative believes that it should be implemented in the area concerned. That's how I understand it, so I wouldn't want to do far-reaching evaluations here. In our annual information it is included, you can say, as an information item, to present... This is not an element that we would analyse in depth, because in the annual information in my opinion it should not be so detailed. As regards questions at the general level, which are the tasks of the Court, these tasks arise from the Constitution in a constitutional sense and from the Constitutional Tribunal Act. I'm sending all the people I'm asking back to see it. If anyone has a stricte individual questions, that is what I always say at meetings and for all citizens: the Court also answers such questions. Last year we had several hundred such cases and in 2017 also. We answer these questions because it is also the task of the Constitutional Court to bring this institution closer to the citizen. And whose organ? All public authorities in a democratic state of law are sovereign bodies. There's no other answer here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Senator Rybicki. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but you forgot my...]] Senator Rybicki. [[Mr. Marshal, you haven't answered my question.]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: But what is it... If you would remind me...]] [[Page 47.]] Page 47. [[The question was...]] Okay, okay. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Now, now, now, wait, wait. Yes, it is.]] [[1.1.1.3.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u60	Oh, it's about... Oh, that's a ruling... This is specifically the case for a decision relating to the procedures for the election of the first President. As you know, the procedures of the collegial bodies should take place in a specific way by adopting a resolution. That's what organs do. I'll be happy to send the senator the documentation relating to the procedure for the election of the first President of the Supreme Court before these changes, before our ruling. You'll be able to get a detailed explanation. It was a procedure that did not comply with the rules in force. That's what it looked like. I will also send you the documents that provided the basis for this ruling. Of course, we have assessed this procedure, but it did not give rise to physical, personal, legal effects, because the Constitutional Tribunal is debating law rather than individualized cases. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u61	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In 2017, there was a worrying phenomenon of limiting media access to hearings, especially the most important ones, e.g. during the review of the convention law. The President, as some media report, said that the media are bringing chaos during the hearings, and it is well known that transparency, transparency, especially in such important hearings, is a value in itself. The provisions of the Constitution guaranteeing freedom of expression, the right of citizens to public information and the freedom of the press are also in favour of the full access of the media to the Court's work. I'd like you to address these charges... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Good.]] ...about restricting the access of the media to the hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u64	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The judgment in KRS was adjourned last Thursday. It is to be announced on the 25th of this month. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: But this does not concern...]] You said in the context of this judgment I understand that in connection with this case That one of the judges filed some kind of non-procedural motion. Tell me who the judge was and what the motion was about.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u65	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u66	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My question concerns page 50 of the report There are a number of more or less interesting things presented here, but I miss... And I would like to hear why this is not in this report. I think it should be. In 2017, many general court judges and the Supreme Court, in various cases, expressed the view that, due to the paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal, the courts were obliged to interpret the Constitution themselves. I would like to know what the judge thinks about this, as well as your opinion on why the judicial community has expressed such a vote of distrust towards the Constitutional Tribunal under your leadership.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u67	Thank you very much. This last question does not concern information. You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u68	Maybe I'll start by asking you a question about the KRS. This does not concern this annual information, so that I will not answer this question, all the more so that the matter is going on and there is a deadline. And when it comes to transparency, there is no situation where this transparency or access to court is limited. All the hearings and judgments at the Constitutional Court are being transmitted. As regards media participation, we are talking about media participation with cameras and recording equipment, it depends on the decision of the President of the Court, who consults the judges involved in the case. If I said it was chaos, it was the judge's argument. I'd like to appeal here... There's full disclosure about the proceedings. We don't violate any constitutional rules. That is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you and draw your attention to the procedures. I am no longer talking about other constitutional tribunals in Europe, e.g. The Court of Justice of the European Union. The situation is that all electronic devices, mobile phones, tablets, laptops and other devices are required to be excluded at a trial before the Court of Justice. There is no transparency as it is in the Court because there is no direct transmission there. So that's kind of an individual decision of each institution. Therefore, my answer is that there is full transparency, you can look at the hearing and that absolutely our solutions do not differ from the solutions adopted, and even in my opinion, by the fact that the transmission can be viewed directly on the Internet, we are, when it comes to transparency, better than e.g. Court of Justice of the European Union. As far as judicial cooperation is concerned, the communication of courts with the Constitutional Tribunal is made through legal questions which the court is asking. The Court cannot assess the activities of the court in an area which is non-legal and non-constitutional, and all judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, including the President of the Court, comply with that principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u70	Judge, the number of sentences I asked you in 2017 has fallen dramatically. That number is 36. My further question concerns this. This is page 80, if you would look at this chart on page 80....that there are 36 judgments, of which there are only 2 judgments in full composition, 4 judgments in 5-person composition, and the remaining judgments in only three-member composition. So it's a drastic inheritance. The number of judges doesn't change, it's the same number. So what was the reason that compared to the previous years, especially when it comes to full squad because it was only two sentences... what suddenly changed that this number of sentences is like this? And one more question about these... [[But you've already asked that question, Senator.]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Well, if...]] Yes, but you didn't answer... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska:...it is about the full...]] You didn't answer, that's why I'm asking. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska:...about this full composition...]] And yet, out of liquidity... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska:...I will explain this.]] [[But you're asking the same question twice.]] You didn't answer, that's why I'm asking. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: I will answer.]] It was about this squad... about the sentence... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Full composition.]] ...in full court and in five judges, about the fact that these judgments were so few... [[Yeah, but you're asking the same question twice.]] ...and you didn't answer that question. Just out of curiosity, I'll ask you again. 'Cause you were talking about these vacations, about the fact that there really were these backlogs, and so on. Although it concerns 2017, has something changed now as regards the use of leave. Have all vacations for 2017 taken advantage of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u71	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. [[But I didn't get an answer at all.]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: About...]] [[Not at all.]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: As far as the courts are concerned...]] But now... ma'am... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska:...I was talking about communicating...]] Madam President, wait a minute. Don't answer the loose questions that are coming from the room. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Good.]] Now, Senator Zientarski. [[I was in front of Zientarski.]] [[Short...]] No, now Blackbay, I'm sorry. [[Uh-huh.]] Because I've already crossed out Senator Czarnobaj, not asked a question. [[I can trade, Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me. Senator Blackbay. Sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u72	I have a question about page 63. I mean your assessment of the number of cases that affect the Court. Since 1998 or 1999 this is the lowest quantity. What is the result of such a small number of cases as shown in this chart?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u73	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u74	Two questions. The first concerns the principle of constitutional presumption that you spoke about in 2017 in various interviews. I'm asking... Please indicate the legal basis, whether constitutional or legal. And if this is a doctrinal principle, is this principle absolute? And second question... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Presumption of constitutionality.]] And second question. Are you not concerned that, due to the manipulation of the submission in 2017, as a result of these manipulations, which is clearly stated, the parties who have previously applied to examine the compatibility of the law with the Constitution have withdrawn them, stating that they do not have confidence in the integrity and impartiality of the Court? These are unprecedented situations. Are you not concerned about the behaviour of those who have previously applied to the Court with full confidence?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u75	Thank you very much. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u76	I'll answer the question of why in full squad. I answered the Court's work. If such decisions were given, it meant that the Judge-Rapporteur and the judges in the composition in these two cases considered that they should be sentenced in full. When it comes to full membership, 5- and 3-person membership, it follows stricte from the bill. Therefore, the scope of the ruling in a specific composition It also sort of regulates the bill. And that's why it's changing. That's my answer. I also refer to the earlier answer when I said that it was up to the judges and to the stage at which the case is at hand. About the impact of things... I already told you that, too. He is the result of the public's response, whether those who are entitled to submit applications or constitutional complaints, or the courts submitting legal questions to the Constitutional Tribunal. It is these entities that shape the number and impact of these cases. And as I said, there are certain judicial areas that cause that... In a particular year, certain laws, in a social perception that are considered unconstitutional or emotional, often cause an avalanche of things. That was the year 2015. That's my answer. As regards the Court's contact and communication with ordinary courts, I repeat once again: every court has the right to ask a legal question, and if it is referred to the Constitutional Tribunal in a procedural form, the Court shall deal with it. And when it comes to... because I understand that this was a question about the presumption of constitutionality. Yes? [[Yes.]] Presumption of constitutionality doctrinally stems not strictly from a specific provision, but from the entire legal structure of the Constitution. The point is that a provision which has been issued in accordance with the procedure, even if there are reservations as to the procedure, until the Constitutional Tribunal... Until the authority amends this provision or the Constitutional Tribunal finds it unconstitutional, this provision is constitutional and binding. I'm sending you here to publish Professor Mark Zubik. He devoted the entire book to this, let's say, the basic principle of presumption of constitutionality. And it is in doctrine, you could say, both continental law and in certain areas of Anglo-Saxon law. This is a slightly different area of regulation, so I will not refer directly to it here. As far as legislation is concerned and as far as continental law is concerned, it is a similar doctrinal institution. [[I asked if she was ruthless.]] Right. [[Do you think so?]] [[Mr. Senator, let's not discuss this. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] But it's not... We can talk because this is a discussion... I'm sending Professor Zubik back to his book. [[But I know this book.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u77	There are other... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But we're not having a conversation, we're just asking questions and answering questions. Well, that's the formula, you know it. This is the last year of your term, so we all know the rules. That's all the questions, right? [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Yes.]] I mean, answers. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Answers, yes.]] Senator Borusewicz, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u78	Because you refused to answer my question... And I asked for a non-procurement request which was made in connection with the case, about the National Judicial Council, and I asked which judge made the application, what it was about. Since you refused to answer here and now, I ask you to answer my questions in writing. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u79	Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u80	In 2017, he separated from the Constitutional Tribunal an outstanding Polish lawyer, Professor Stanisław Biernat, who, let's face it, as vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal was recognized as one of the pillars of the rule of law in Poland. Did you, in any way, react or draw the consequences of the email revealed by the weekly "Policy," in which your deputy referred to Professor Biernat by e-mail using words such as "hysterical" and "spinning"? In this e-mail he wrote to Professor Biernat: You hystericalize and shoot. Well, these are not accepted in elegant company and proper words, such words must not be addressed to anyone, including those who embody the rule of law in Poland. Have any consequences for Mr. Muszyński been raised by the President? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u81	Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u82	I would like, as a consequence, to ask Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's questions: could you answer us, then, why did you tell us at this conference about this fact? What was that for? If you don't want to give us any answers about this, then why did you tell us at the conference? So you made it clear that there was a case, but you're not gonna tell anyone about it. We don't get it at all. And I don't think society understood that either. So if you wanted to explain it... That's the first question. Second question. We've been here before... E.g. I asked a lot of questions, we asked about transmissions, all that stuff, and so on. You've heard it. It's been a very long discussion. I have the impression that... please tell me, did you consider at least some of these questions appropriate? Have you taken into account any motion or doubt from the senators? Have you thought about it? Have you heard anything about our questions? [[Come on, Senator, you're welcome...]] But... [[Finish the question, because you're already asking them for a minute and 20 seconds, and you're...]] I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but... [[And speaking of Senator Klich's question, I would also ask for moderation and appropriate questioning...]] Excuse me... [[...in the right language. And I'm paying attention to the senator.]] Sometimes not all questions come to mind. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for paying attention, but sometimes not all questions come to mind. Therefore, I would like to ask: why didn't you answer any questions Senator Boris-Damięcka, which are written? And these are the questions that our voters are asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u83	But, Senator, the president said... [[I'm done. Thank you.]] ...very detailed. [[I'm addressing you...]] Please read the transcript. I heard the answer to that question. [[I... that's not true.]] Very... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm addressing the president.]] But you've been asking for two minutes... [[Thank you.]] I'm picking up your voice. Thank you, Senator. And I'm asking the president to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment I am speaking to you in connection with the presentation of the annual information for 2017. The case concerning the National Judicial Council, Case 12/18, does not concern this, and I will therefore not reply in this respect. Second thing. As far as the correspondence between President Biernat and Mr Muszyński is concerned, this is not the scope of annual information either. This case was not related to a judicial activity. Issues relating to the drawing of consequences, as you called it colloquially, by the President of the Court, by the President of the Supreme Court or the Presidents of the Courts are governed strictly the rules in force concerning disciplinary action. There was no request in this area from either side, and therefore the Court did not deal with this case at all. It's not the president's job either, it's the designated or elected disciplinary team. That wasn't the situation. As regards the questions asked at the previous hearing, we answered all the questions, including written questions. But I would like to tell you that, of course, I take all the comments into account. And let me repeat: there is no such thing as there would be some secrecy or secrecy of proceedings before the Court. I have said this before and I will stress once again: in no way do we deviate from the standards in all the countries of the European Union. I think we're even more transparent. Everyone has the right and the opportunity to read the proceedings at the Constitutional Court. The media are also involved... they can be in the O.R. And here we are even less restrictive than the Court of Justice of the European Union, because the media can use even tablets, phones, etc., there is no such direct ban. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u85	Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u86	Thank you. I will return to the transparency of the Constitutional Tribunal. Publicity is also the right to have access to judgments given by the Court. And that comes directly from the bill. According to the law, the Court issues a set of its decisions in electronic form. Despite such legal status in 2017, in May, from the search engine, from where there is a set of decisions, the decision, the publication of which... The President of the Council of Ministers refused to publish one of the judgments of the Court. And Judge Mariusz Muszyński claimed that since it did not enter the legal system because it was not announced in the Official Journal of the Laws, there is no reason for it to be in the case law base and complicate legal reality. Would you agree with this view, since it is clear from the Constitution that the judgments of the Court are universally applicable and that... [[Voice from the room: Subject...]] ...there are no exceptions, no exceptions? [[Voice from the room:...absolute publication, immediate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u87	Please, Senator Comfort. [[No evaluation.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Comfort!]] [[Alexander Comfort.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u88	To the minutes, Madam President, I would like to point out that I believe that I did not get an exhaustive answer to my previous question concerning the interrelationship, cooperation and opinion of the general courts and the Supreme Court concerning the operation of the Constitutional Tribunal at the moment. On page 84 there is a graph that shows It's the only graph. It's a very big change. It is a matter of transferring applications to a substantive examination following a preliminary check. It follows that in 2017 there was an increase in the number of refusals to grant the proposal a further run. I'd like to know what this is and how you would comment on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u89	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u90	Good. As far as the base of decisions is concerned, it's all the decisions that... Let me put it this way: the ruling of the Constitutional Court is universally applicable from the moment it is published. And it resulted in such a decision that, until the decision in question is published, it will not function on this basis of judgments, all the decisions which have been published. That's what it looks like. And access to that ruling could have been anyone's, it wasn't that those decisions disappeared at all. That's one thing. As far as the issue of this graph is concerned, with the transfer to the substantive examination, I refer to these specific judgments. But it seems that this is the decision of the judges, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in each individual case decide and decide whether the case meets the requirements, the substantive requirements to bend over it in such a strict procedure. a court-martial, a substantive one. And if the judges think that such a complaint is for example. does not meet these conditions, so they refuse to give a further run. So that this is the individualized judgment of each of the warehouses. And that's why it's hard to generalize. There may be various reasons why the Constitutional Tribunal did not recognise... And as I say, it is not the President of the Court who decides this, it is the formation of the court. And every case is so individual that no generalization in this area should simply, in my opinion, be done. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u91	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u92	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question. We had the privilege of hosting many presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal here in the Senate. And today we have a report for 2017, when you became a Freedom Man. I'd like to ask. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 It's about what freedom is to you. How did you get that you just won that title? Say freedom and right, freedom to judge, freedom to... how do you think freedom is associated with freedom? With a constitution? How...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u93	Senator, I am overruled because this question is absolutely not relevant to this case. Thank you very much, Senator. [[This concerns 2017.]] It's not about the case. Not applicable. And please don't ask such questions. We're not gonna ask each other about definitions here. Thank you very much. And the next person, Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u94	Mr. Marshal, I'm asking the same question again because I didn't get the answer. So let's do it again. On page 63... [[I heard the answer, Senator.]] But I didn't hear it. Well, maybe...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u95	Then read it in the transcript. Well, really, we're not gonna ask the same questions twice. [[It's me...]] Well, no, I disagree. Senator Borusewicz, please. [[But I...]] Well, do you want to ask the same question? And you're saying the same thing? [[But I didn't get the answer, Mr. Marshal.]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: There was an answer.]] Then read it in the transcript. I heard the answer. If the president has anything to say about this... Yeah, but you're assessing if there's enough... [[I'm not judging because I didn't get an answer.]] Senator Pociej just said that he had received an insufficient response. This is your senator's assessment. Everyone answers as much as... [[How can he do that?]] As he sees fit, Senator. Please, don't be so mean. Because really, this isn't the House for such malice. Okay? Who's next? [[Senator Czarnobaj, then Marshal Borusewicz...]] Actually, everyone's already... [[Voice from the room: I volunteered.]] [[...Senator Shark...]] Mr. Senator... Oh, yes, Senator Shark. Yes. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, then Senator Shark. [[And Senator Rybicki's got it right now.]] That's later. Well, let's get another card, 'cause it's gonna be a mess.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u96	You do not want to answer questions about the current activities of the Court because the report concerns 2017 and is being examined in 2019. The 2018 report will be reviewed in 2020, so the report for the current period will probably be in 2021. Will you then want to answer these questions about the current activities of the Court? I hope so. And, Mr. Marshal, do you think that you are currently conducting an objective session? [[Yes.]] [[Applause]] I'm afraid not. It wasn't enough that I was supposed to be running this meeting...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u97	Very objective. It's been a minute. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm not gonna answer... [[...and you wouldn't let me drive... I understand that in your opinion, in this particular part of the Constitutional Tribunal, he should be leading...]] Mr. Marshal, I remembered the moment when you were once in session... [[That's first of all. And second of all...]] ...and I'd like to run this meeting. [[...I'd like to tell you that the judge is perfectly capable. You don't have to supplement it.]] He's doing very well, Senator. Thank you so much for asking. Senator Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Well, I'm afraid not. I wanted to speak in this spirit, but I will resign because the same answer or reprimand will be given. I would therefore like to ask you, perhaps in writing, to answer the question of what is the responsibilities of your deputy, Mr Muszyński. If I could get it in writing... Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: In what year...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: In 2017]] Yes, in 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u99	Will you receive... Yes, Madam President? 'Cause I'm gonna have to type it in. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Yes, I will answer.]] A written reply shall be given. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Good. You'll get it, we'll give you answers.]] Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u100	Thank you. I would like to ask you about the issue of trust in the Constitutional Tribunal in the context of the visits of many important politicians of the governing camp. In 2017, at the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal, according to the media's findings, the Court received guests, inter alia, from the Court of Justice. Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobro, Deputy Minister Marcin Warchoł, Minister, Special Services Coordinator Mariusz Kamiński, Member of Parliament's majority Arkadiusz Mularczyk. Do you not think that frequent visits by politicians to the Court can influence his view of political life in an average observer? What about the independence of this body?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u101	Mr. Senator, let's ask-- Mr. Senator, I very strongly urge you to ask questions about information-- [[But this issue was an object...]] ...not visits and media reports. We're not gonna talk right now... [[This issue has been the subject of many reflections by various important theorists, constitutionalists or...]] [[Voice from the room: What were the visits?]] [[In the reporting year.]] Mr. Senator, good. I just want to... [[What was the purpose of these visits?]] Good. It's been a minute. Thank you very much. [[Aren't they affecting the Court's image as a politically dependent institution?]] Thank you very much. Judge, Madam President, you may answer, although in my opinion it is absolutely not advisable.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u102	Good. Can I have it now? I'll get an ad vocem right away. I'll answer that right away. You're talking about politics. The people you've mentioned are the constitutional organs of the state. Therefore, I am in these categories in the case of these visits, if they were... This doesn't apply to annual information. In any case, if the questions were asked directly to the Court, we certainly answered them. So much for that. All the questions that have been asked to be answered in writing, of course, will be answered in writing. And that's it. [[I'll have it in writing, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u103	Thank you. Is there no more questions? Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u104	Yes. I would like to ask about the costs of financing the Constitutional Tribunal. Since these statistics show that the number of cases addressed to the Constitutional Tribunal has decreased by half, the number of judgments has fallen dramatically compared to other years, I would like to know whether, on the basis of these results from 2017, the costs of the Constitutional Tribunal Of course, given that the Court does work much less, it can be said that half as much as in previous years, it gives less sentences, you talk about holiday cases, about the fact that these cases have also been dealt with... Hence the question: what are the costs of the Constitutional Tribunal compared to the costs in 2017? In other words, do you have any news from other constitutional tribunals about costs? What does it look like in Poland when compared to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u105	Good. Thank you very much, although the question really does not concern information, Senator. Well, listen to your question and tell me to what extent it concerns information. You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u106	As far as the costs of the Court's operation are concerned, they do not increase. These results, for example, when it comes to: It's about raising wages, strictly with regulations. The costs did not increase in any way. And I won't agree with the senator that the Court is doing worse. I repeat once again: it is clear from the annual information that the Constitutional Tribunal fulfilled all its constitutional obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u107	Thank you very much. One last question, Mr. Senator Czerwinski, and in a moment, I will announce a recess by 1:30 p.m. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! I went to the trouble of counting how many sentences and dismissals were given in relation to the date on which the case was brought in. From what we read here, it appears that about 2/3 are cases, I am talking about 2017, from 2013, 2014 and 2015, i.e., let's call it, predecessors. How would you like to comment on that? Why are there so many cases? What did your predecessors do, I'm sorry, what did they take the money for? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: I would not like to...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[See how...]] [[We're waiting for the same reaction...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u109	Same question, just the other way. Ladies and gentlemen, no one laughed at your questions. [[Voice from the room: If that's what we're gonna do...]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[There's a difference...]] That also tells me something. Behave yourselves properly. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u110	I'm not gonna comment on that. I repeat once again: judgments were dealt with successively, also from previous years. The situation is that the Constitutional Tribunal, all the Constitutional Courts, during the entire period of their activities, carried out their constitutional judicial duties. The Constitutional Tribunal in its ruling shall be independent. It is up to the formation of the court to decide when it will decide, and the formation of the court shall decide that the case has matured until the judgment, order or order has been given in another form provided for by law. That is why I repeat once again: since the judges have decided this way, that is to say, it was the result of their independent independent decision. That's my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u111	Thank you very much. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Thank you very much.]] Will there be any more questions? I'm asking because we need to know. Have you finished asking questions? [[Time out.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, I'm just asking. [[Senator Sławomir Rybicki: We still have questions.)]] There will be other questions, Madam President. So I'm announcing a recess until 1:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 01 to 13 minutes 33]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017. I would like to inform you that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal will be present at the Senate meeting by 2.30 p.m. We're back to asking the president's questions. Anybody else want to ask you a question? Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Madam President, in April 2017, the District Court in Warsaw asked the Constitutional Court about constitutional values, what is more constitutional value, whether it is the right of families of people exhumed to privacy and the possibility to challenge the arbitrary decision of the prosecution of exhumations against the will of the family, whether the values enshrined in the Constitution, i.e. the right to privacy... In this case, the Constitutional Tribunal has not yet defined its position. We don't even know if there's a known trial date. The exhumations took place against the will of families. The European Court of Human Rights stated that they took place in violation of human rights and Polish law, and the Constitutional Tribunal has not yet taken a position. Can you tell me if the Constitutional Tribunal will take this position? And if so, when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u113	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u114	If you don't mind, Senator, I'll answer that question when I get to the Court. I'll see what's going on, what's been done on this case, and I'll let you know in detail. Okay? [[There you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u115	Are there any more questions for the president? [[Mr. Marshal, I'd ask the record to say...]] I'll read it, Senator. [[...I'll be expecting an answer from the president.]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: I will review the whole transcript, as last year, and you will get these answers. I'm sure you'll get the answer first.]] [[Thank you very much.]] Anyway, from what I can see, the co-workers of the president are writing it down. Madam President, thank you very much. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Ms Julia Przyłębska, has undertaken to answer in writing the questions asked by Senator Sławomir Rybicki Two, Senator Anna Sztark. One, Senator Bogdan Klich. Two, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, one, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj One, and Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz Okay, okay, okay, I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Bogdan Klich signed up first, but I don't see him here. Next in order is Senator Sławomir Rybicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u116	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We listened with interest to the President's information about the Court's activities in 2017. Of course, it is appropriate to ask why this report is so late that it is not until 2019 that we are debating this report. There are more questions, of course. During the gala, the president received the title of Man of Liberty. President Jarosław Kaczyński, president of the entire political camp holding power, said such words that the Constitutional Tribunal works as it should. How do you interpret these words? I interpret them, like many Poles, in such a way that this is an expression of appreciation for the Court, which works as expected and fulfils its task. This is my interpretation, but I think a lot of Poles would sign it. Unfortunately, the Court and in 2017, and later it was a useless institution for the protection of constitutional human rights and the citizen. The Court does not fulfil its constitutional function, unfortunately. As a result of many conflicts, but also because of many of his own actions or omissions, he simply lost his authority. And that is a fact that must be regretted because it is an extremely important institution that should guarantee citizens a sense of freedom and justice and also give them the awareness that their rights are protected by an independent institution. What's not in this information? I have already raised the question of why, in this information we have received, there is no directly quoted separate sentence or letter from the five judges of the Court who directly referred to the material that was or is still the subject of our deliberations today. It is a letter of judges of the Court: Leon Kieres, Piotr Beszczółkowski, Małgorzata Pyziak-Szafnicka, Stanisław Rymar and Piotr Tulei. It's a pretty extensive letter. I will only quote two passages which, I think, illustrate the relationship of a large part of the Court's judges to its functioning. I quote: The General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal was convened on 1 February 2017. The subject matter of the proceedings was the termination of the mandate of Judge Andrzej Wróbel. Contrary to art. Paragraph 7 3 of the Act of 30 November 2016 on the organisation and procedure of the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, the Official Journal of the Laws, the date and the order of the sitting were not informed by Vice-President Stanisław Biernat and the judges Stanisław Rymar, Piotr Tuleja and Marek Zubik. Responsibilities of the President of the Court under Article. Paragraph 7 3 of the Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal is the notification of the Court's judges of the order and date of the sitting. This obligation does not exempt the President from the fact that the judge benefits from dismissal or leave of absence. In this list of judges there are many such cases described, which make up the same picture of ignoring, excluding, ignoring judges in a number of judicial actions of the Court. I'm not going to dig into that letter anymore because he's available. Of course, it's not available in the president's information, but it's available in various other publications. It's very interesting. I will refer to and refer to the report issued by the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, having examined the report by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017. There are a lot of interesting analyses here. I'm just gonna appeal to some people. Well, with this primal question about the legality of the appointment of the president... Of course, no one will answer that question directly. Probably the Court of State could answer this question, which would examine the possible constitutional responsibility of the President of the Republic for the appointment of the President, despite the absence of an appropriate resolution of the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Another aspect that needs to be addressed is the marginalisation of 2017 as a period of work of the Court. Vice President of the Court, Judge Stanisław Biernat. This is a special case. I think he'll be analyzed by a lot of analysts and lawyers in the future. At the same time, it was a delegation of powers, actually without legal authority, to a judge whom I will consistently call a double, that is, to Judge Mariusz Muszyński, whose President has provided very far-reaching powers, and these powers are unclear from some statutory basis. In general, I will only talk about one of the most important issues, i.e. the appointment of judges who, according to many lawyers, have been set up in violation of the Constitution, which is to replace the doubles with the next doubles. It is also a matter of suspending three judges from ruling on important decisions. There is also a case from the application of the Attorney General to examine compliance with the Constitution of the resolution of the Polish Sejm on the election of 3 members of the National Judicial Council. As a result of this request, the Attorney General was dismissed from judging Zubik, Toula and Rymar. It's a non-commentary thing. I think this is simply another manifestation of the instrumental treatment of its powers as President of the Court. I think we should also refer to staff matters. I'm skipping the issue of the bill that gave me the tools to fire workers. This issue is, I think, worth a separate analysis in the context of the Constitution and labour law. But I would like to refer to a condition that is worth comparing with the previous one. As of 31 December 2015, 34 persons with a doctorate in law were employed at the Court. In December 2017, only 17 people had such a title. Can this affect the quality of the Court's work? In theory, I think it can, because it is a gross difference from year to year when it comes to people who work at the Court and have such high competences. Of course, there are a great number of questions about case law. There's no time to deal with all of this and ask extra questions. When we asked questions, these statistical comparisons appeared. Well, they're not for the benefit of the current Constitutional Court, both in terms of the number of cases adjudicated and... e.g. in the case of fishing, 18 out of 36, the Court's judgments in the composition were those who had already been elected, i.e. judges who had, in the opinion of many observers of political life, the status of judges of doubles. After all, such a situation implies certain legal effects in the future, including the recognition of the judgment given for example. a judgment that does not exist, i.e. a procedural act devoid of legal significance. I have no doubt that in the future all those judgments in which the so-called judgments took part were so-called. Double judges, will be questioned by the interested or having a legal interest in this. It is incomprehensible why in 2017 the burden on individual judges of judgment was so uneven. While Judge Piotr Beszczółkowski took part in the examination of 47 cases, of which he was the rapporteur in the case 14, Judge Marek Zubik did not take part in any ruling. Is there so few cases in the Court, so little work that there is no need to exploit the powers of the outstanding judge, Judge Marek Zubik? I will not dwell more on trust in the Court, because this is a more complicated matter, stretching through space and time, and it also requires separate treatment. Although I have been asked why the Court is visited by politicians who perform important constitutional functions, and whether information about such visits certainly contributes to increasing confidence in the Court or not. I doubt it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u117	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but the usual time of 10 minutes... [[That's why I'm gonna finish up in the extra time.]] You're welcome. Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, as, well, I think I'm already an experienced senator, I'm approaching this pedestal with a beating heart, Mr. Marshal. Because I was used to being really active with the Supreme Court. I was proud to be... [[Court.]] I'm sorry, the Constitutional Court. I was proud that, when I was almost the previous two terms of office of the Chair of the Legislative Commission, we closed the great arrears in the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal rulings that this House... In addition, constitutionalists at many major conferences, among others. Those who took place in the Sejm thought that the Senate was needed, some constitutionalists changed their mind about the need for a second chamber, appreciating, among other things. this role of the Senate in the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. This role was emphasized at very solemn meetings of the Constitutional Tribunal with the participation of the President and many prominent people of the legal world, constitutionalists, as well as former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Those were great events. Unfortunately, the Court's ethos were ruined. I'm not used to it. And I think there's witnesses here. There's a marshal. Attack ad personam, attack people. I rather liked it because I think it's a duty of a serious parliamentarian, and that's what I want to be, to talk to things and talk about the matter. But it's really hard to understand you... I congratulate you on one thing, a great sense of well-being. You think I asked you that a year ago? That you're a lawyer with outstanding legal knowledge as required. I know the history of the Court, not all of its presidents were scientists. Some did not have academic titles, but indeed they were highly rated for their legal knowledge in their environment, which I admit with heartache. I'm afraid you can't be said for yourself. We know what was the opinion of the judge's community from which you came. But abstracting from this issue, which is also very fundamental... In fact, under all the words that my previous speaker, Senator Rybicki, has just quoted, I am not signing. Mr. Senator was very careful about the justification for the thesis I put forward, the thesis that the ethos of the Court were ruined. It was not by chance that citizens gathered before and before the Court. Without precedent, there were situations which, as a result of the events of 2017, led us, a group of senators whom I had the honour to represent in a very basic case, which was a request to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the position of the Attorney General, who, as an interested person, was a frequent guest at the Court, not necessarily on the occasion of some anniversary or official meeting of the Court, just as an interested person... The proposal has been in place since 2016. As the Constitutionalists said I've got the honor of being in this group. The President's order of 25 January 2017 was issued without any indication of the legal basis. This was also said by the Ombudsman. Instead of setting up a full squad, you've appointed a five-man squad. Today I asked what was the legal basis, because in the beginning, in your speech, you said that you boasted about the fact that orders, judgments, orders are so well-founded. Well, they're not justified. And unfortunately, a large proportion of the judgments are decisions to cancel the proceedings, including. to terminate in the case of our application and the application of the ombudsman. It was about withdrawing the application because of the warehouse manipulation. I ask you, this situation has not yet been in the history of the Court, that the constitutionally entitled entities who wish to demand control of the judicial authority in Poland, whether we are a rule of law or not, about the prosecutor's office... It was not possible as a result of these actions... And it was, as I say, not only politicians, but also the ombudsman. And they went back because there was a legal situation that there were a few changes, still within this Friday there were changes and eventually he was going to rule the understudy. Well, no politicians say the ruling is invalid, that's what constitutionalists say. That is not said by politicians that the judgment is affected by the defect of annulment. Well, unfortunately, these aren't lines sucked out of your finger. It's not misinterpreted statistics. As you say, it's great. You're comparing us to what's in Europe. But I will remind you that the face of the reforms, Mr Piotrowicz, justified the changes in the Court, said that the Court did nothing that it was lullaby that the work had to be done at last. And what does it turn out to be? That there's not even half of what was in that Court. Well, that's just the facts. Those are the facts. That's why all the issues that Senator Rybicki was talking about, like blocking three judges against the proportion that they are... [[Time.]] Well, these are things that don't fit in the mind of a normal student of constitutional law. [[Mr. Senator, it's been 10 minutes.]] We therefore assess this report and the role played by the Constitutional Tribunal in 2007 as a dark... [[This Regulation ……]] ...a card of the history of the Polish rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Alexander Pociej, please. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start by saying two words about the procedure before the Senate. I'd like to congratulate you on the possibility of reschedule something that was supposed to happen and that was usually the case. At the last meeting. For the first time, I remember, you could reschedule. And you're four minutes late today for your meeting with us. [[No, no, no. I'm the one who's late.]] The president walked in four minutes after. And so the President has treated the whole House, which is the most powerful example of what we have received as a report. Also, the mode of discussion reserved for you was quite specific, because not being able to ask questions... And it was today by your marshal extremely meticulously enforced, exceptionally. Actually, I have some advice, Madam President. In a year's time, two years from now, when you're in time for the 2018 report, it's best you don't write anything. Because then we will not be able to ask any questions, because in no way will we be able to refer to what you have not written here. And most importantly, Madam President, what you didn't write here. And you haven't written a lot of important things. Every year, we talked to the president of the Supreme Court here, earlier with your predecessor... [[The Constitutional Tribunal.]] I told you that every year we talk to the President of the Supreme Court, your predecessor, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal... And I will say, Madam President, that no one, for the seven and a half years since I've been in the Senate, has ever hid like that. No one was hiding because there was nothing inside. The quality of the answer really does not agree with your position in the Polish state and does not argue with how serious an institution, which has been for many years, for at least 30 years, a bailiff of our entire legal system, you represent. There was a speech here. I have raised this issue several times. - about this time of deposit... In 2018, you prevented our House from taking action in 2017. And you've operated so many times here with a mental device that you do everything in accordance with procedures. Also those that have been changed in a disgraceful way. Except for procedures, there's a certain responsibility. Because according to your thinking, you don't have to come here at all. And again, you represent one of the most important institutions in this country. And you have a great duty to do it to be proud of it, and to come to us with something that we can in any way analyze and give us a real picture. Not like the TVP information bar. I'm going to go back to the fact that your speech and your actions over the last three years, in my opinion, indicate that you don't understand how important your position is, nor did you carry it. Do you, in this report... Can I read it, or can you tell me how many times your predecessors' stores before you came to the Court... How many times did the Constitutional Tribunal repeal the laws of the predecessors? I can tell you: it was 50, 60 bills a year, but probably more. I would like to ask you how many acts of parliament have been repealed by you. How much? Can you give me one example? What, suddenly this great and infallible power is? No, Madam President, there is another explanation and Unfortunately for you, you know exactly what it is. On page 58 you write about international cooperation. Madam President, in relation to the activities of your predecessors, who have been European authorities The work of the Polish Constitutional Tribunal was modelled on by European tribunals in their solutions That's laughter. You left four times Judge Moravian, once Assistant Judge of the Constitutional Court, and in December, as we read, President Przyłębska took part in a lecture... Where? And by chance in Germany, Frankfurt am Main. I understand that on the way...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u121	Excuse me, Mr. Senator... [[I'd like to...]] But, Senator, I'm sorry, it's over right now. Fortunately, your time. Yes, thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you kindly. [[I think, Madam President...]] Thank you very much. But it's over, Mr. Senator... [[I think, Madam President...]] Enough of what you said... [[I think you'll think about it.]] Mr. Senator, I've already taken your vote. [[Thank you very much.]] Mr. Senator, please pay attention to... I draw your attention to the fact that you weren't telling the truth. The president was very punctual and very... And please... [[We've been here and we can check.]] I've already checked it out, sir. You're just missing the truth, and you don't want to... [[I'm not missing the truth. I'm telling the truth because it was four after...]] Sir, you're wrong, you're missing the truth. I checked it out, and I did. Please stick to the facts and the truth. You didn't stick to the facts in your statement and you didn't stick to the truth, and politicians should be talking about the truth. I call on you to measure yourself in your speeches and stick to the facts and the truth. Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki, five minutes. [[100%... we can check it out.]] There you go. The president was here two minutes earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! To further examine the Court's President's report on the Court's activities in 2017, I would like to briefly address two points: the new Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, these are new tools that increase the power of your President over the judges of the Court, including the judges of the Court at rest. In the Code of Ethics, there are wordings that actually limit the possibility for judges of the Court to speak freely. In particular, the judges of the Court of Justice at rest In a public debate. Until the end of these political issues are not defined here, but are we to understand that e.g. A retired judge, Wojciech Hermeliński, should not object to the new shape of the electoral code? It's his obvious duty. And when Judge Stępień makes comments about one or another decision, is it good or bad? And since Judge Johann has spoken on the amendment of the KRS Act, should we start proceedings against him? In my questions, I already referred to the transparency of the Court's action, in particular the restriction of media access. I will not speak on this issue, but this is another problem that needs to be addressed. Like the issue of the number of decisions issued during classified meetings Only 7 cases took place in 35 judgments. However, it is about transparency, transparency, accessibility to this procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I will refer to the summary of this report and here I will assist with the study, as I mentioned, of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. Thus, such conclusions arise, they are devastating to the Court. First of all, it is the introduction in December 2016 of 3 laws governing the work of the Court, which led to a reduction in the efficiency of the proceedings before the Court. As a result, the legal appointment of Julia Przyłębska as President of the Court and the marginalisation of the political position of Vice-President of the Court, Judge Stanisław Biernat, took place. In 2017, one of the smallest cases in the history of the institution entered the Court. At the same time, since 2001 The Court did not recognise as small a number of cases as in 2017. In the case of 18 out of 36 judgments delivered in 2017 by the Constitutional Tribunal, there were persons selected for already occupied judicial positions, i.e. the so-called. Doubles. I have already mentioned trust in the Court, it is a separate issue. A small number of judgments issued, current political disputes, as well as mutual visits by politicians ruling a parliamentary majority and the management of the Court of Justice have prevented the Court from restoring its authority and rather does not affect confidence in this institution. The result of a non-essential proposal by the prosecutor general to examine compliance with the Constitution of the resolutions of the Sejm on the appointment of judges of Zubik, Tulei and Rymar as judges of the Court was to exclude them from the recognition of the application of the President of the Republic of Poland for a preventive review of the Law amending the Law on Assembly. The newly adopted code of ethics of the judge The Court shall disproportionately restrict the freedom of expression of the Judges of the Court of Justice at rest. The newly adopted Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal interferes in the independence of the Court's judges and strengthens the position of the President of the Court. In 2017, as I said, there was a decrease in the standard of transparency of the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. The restrictions on access by the media to the Court's meetings do not have a legal basis in the applicable legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Helsinki Foundation for an in-depth analysis with which I fully identify myself. Once again, I regret that such an important institution of the state, the justice system, such an important institution that upholds human rights and freedoms, is now incapacitated and politically subordinate to the camp of power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u123	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Bobko... [[Voice from the hall: Aleksander.]] Alexander Bobko. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. You're welcome, sir. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! First of all, I would like to argue with the opinion expressed by my colleagues from the opposition that 2017 is a dark card in the history of the rule of law in Poland, to which the situation in the Court would contribute. The year 2017 was indeed a specific year in the history of the Polish rule of law, that is not the issue. As a result of this specificity, which probably will be described by historians, political scientists, in 2017 the Constitutional Tribunal actually acted under very difficult conditions and the President was certainly in a situation more difficult than its predecessors. Well, in such institutions as the Supreme Court, like the Constitutional Tribunal or in many other institutions of public life, there is such a thing as a certain legacy of prestige. We enter an institution that enjoys prestige, respect, and in this sense... of course, this prestige must still be taken care of, but in that, so to speak, the relay of prestige to other people who are implementing themselves into a new, very responsible position is usually easier for these people. But here it really was. it's harder, because as a result of all these different political events that I don't want to bring up anymore, we all know them. "Etos." There is no doubt that the Court has been violated and reduced, and that is not the case. There has been a decrease in confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal for a number of different reasons. As I say, I don't want to get into it very much, but I would say that, in fact, almost everyone, all sides of the political dispute have done something about it. Maybe I won't develop it because it would take me all the time, but I think in diagnosing what the reasons were, it would be best to fight in your own breasts, and most often we fight in someone else's. Ladies and gentlemen, on your part, there are allegations of low Court activity in 2017. But who's responsible? What's the reason? Throughout 2017 we have heard here, in the Senate, and in many other places on your part, in the Senate from your mouth, and in public space from your political environments or somehow sympathetic that the Court does not exist, that it is the Court of PiS-owski, on telephone, etc., such invectives, which caused that laws, which often raised strong constitutional doubts... There were such laws adopted in 2017, right? Maybe not very much, but there were undoubtedly several such laws that raised constitutional doubts, and the state also raised these doubts from this stand... I was astonished to see that neither the State nor any other authorised entity had referred such cases to the Court. It is now difficult to blame the Court for not considering these matters. Since they were not addressed to the Court, he did not consider them. You'd have to think about what the reason was. Undoubtedly, the Court in Poland I'm here to address the president. He's got a problem. You, your co-workers, all the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal have an enormous task. It's a challenge. Rebuilding the prestige and ethos of the Court, which has been largely reduced. You were here. more as objects, object or result of this dispute, which reduced the ethos of the Court than those responsible for reducing that ethos. But now it's your shoulders, especially yours, that it's your duty to restore that ethos. This is extremely necessary, because in Poland, in Europe we need courts that enjoy prestige, and we have a problem with it. not only in Poland. Recent events related, for example, to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning Polish matters in my opinion I don't know, maybe I'm overreacting. In a totally gross way, they lower the rank of the Court of Justice and in a gross way, such ostentatiously show... [[Time, time.]] ...that the European Court is involved in a political dispute, because giving judgments two days before the elections in Poland is an ostentatious political demonstration. And here, Madam President, the last word. [[The Court of Justice still needs to be corrected.]] I encourage you to act with special caution, knowing that you have a particular responsibility and that, so to speak, you are very, very carefully looking at your hands. And there may be nothing wrong with looking at it in the same way, but I would call for this looking at the hands, this monitoring to be conducted in an objective and logical manner, not biased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u125	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that I was very sorry to hear a few hours of questioning and then so-called. a debate on the 2017 difficult period of action of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to thank you here, Madam President and the Court, for having presented a factual, calm report on the activities at this very complicated time, which simply points to one thing: The Court acted in accordance with the law as necessary, everything was in its place, despite the fact that it faced very different turbulences and difficulties at the time. It seems that this report clearly demonstrates that the Court has succeeded, despite these difficulties, in functioning. This absurd and stubbornly repeated thesis about the lack of the rule of law in Poland is simply boring and I think that for most citizens it really sounds like an obsessive attachment to something that a large majority of Polish citizens do not see at all. Poland is, of course, a law-abiding country. The villains are raced, the innocent are protected. The state is defending the weak and strong, especially the most powerful ones who hold their hand on money, looking at this hand more carefully and where it needs to be, without violating the rules, simply requires what they should do. [[Voices from the O.R.: He's picking up.]] And it seems that such a vision of the rule of law dominates among the vast majority of citizens. The Polish state is also law-abiding in terms of all the attributes of democracy. Democracy allows this House to function normally, but it is enough to go out into the hallway to see how much media Incredibly critical not to say sometimes overly critical to the government It works without the slightest restriction. The freedom of all these media is respected, you can say, to the limits... or without any boundaries. They demonstrate huge sequences of different types of groups that express their dissatisfaction with such or other state moves without the slightest restrictions. It seems like you really need to be blind or blind. [[Especially on public television.]] [[Mr. Senator!]] ...or a bad will to say there's a problem. [[We're responding.]] [[But you don't have to tell the Minister. The Minister's doing fine.]] Madam President, at the end of my speech, in some sense I feel responsible for what I have been listening to for the last few hours, to express my regret and not for myself, but as one of the members of this assembly, I would like to apologize for what has been happening here. I think these disgusting personal trips to you were just really out of place. A lot has been said about hate speech lately, and it is here, in this House, that I think some of them have, unfortunately, crossed the line a little bit... a border that may not be called that word, but it certainly was a border of restraint, which should prevail in this House of reflection and reflection. And I think it would be worthwhile for all of us to be a little self-limiting in criticism, especially when some languages are itching to make personal points and trips or criticize you. I was very sorry to hear that, and as one of the members of this assembly, I apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u127	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Zbigniew Silence. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Madam President! High Izbo! I, ladies and gentlemen, would appeal to all the participants in this debate, especially to colleagues who speak so critically, even beyond certain limits of substantive discussion, and who go even to use ad personam's arguments, about moderation. In fact, in everything there is a need for moderation, maintaining certain boundaries and distance, also in the assessment of this report, which was submitted by the President. I would be far from condemning this report, as my previous speaker, Senator Pociej, has done, by going to use phrases that, in retrospect, if he thinks about it, he will regret it. To be honest, as a lawyer, which is his colleague, I listened to it with astonishment and even scandal. Well, it's not okay to speak out like that, ad personam, to the president. I understand that he may not like the report, he may not like the way in which the Court led by the President is acting, but that is not the reason for such a far-reaching, even aggressive criticism of a person, a man who has his natural dignity. I'm definitely protesting this. Now, I'm gonna get to the point. I believe that this report should be assessed primarily from the point of view of what has been presented here, what has been decided by the Court and on the basis of an analysis of the impact of cases and decisions taken. One thing comes at first glance here, i.e. that these decisions are much less than what used to be. But you have to take into account that a lot less cases have also been affected. Ladies and gentlemen, let us consider the bodies entitled to submit complaints or applications to the Court in turn. Let's start with the president. The president filed one application, one application that was accepted. Incidentally, I once criticized President Komorowski for making two applications for his entire term of office. Mr Duda has not finished his term of office yet, a long time before him, and I am sure that these proposals will be more than those tabled by Mr Komorowski, who only requested two proposals. As far as complaints are concerned, the Court always has the greatest amount of work to do with those who defend their rights, who find that they are being violated, i.e. the parties represented by lawyers and lawyers, because there is a legal obligation. Of course, this is a large number of complaints, which is a kind of mechanism for the functioning of tribunals, not only of the Constitutional Tribunal, but also of other international tribunals, and especially of the human rights tribunal in Strasbourg. And it can be said that this is, ladies and gentlemen, unchanged since the Court was appointed, i.e. since 1986, when it began to act on the basis of a previously issued law. Finally, requests from eligible civil rights attorneys, the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, etc., including the National Judicial Council. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a clear reduction in the activity of these actors in this area. It is, in particular, strange to see the behaviour of the Ombudsman, who makes his applications many times and then withdraws them, with misguided reasons that he does not like the composition of the Court which has been designated and therefore withdraws the application. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's be consistent. If you want the Court to act, give it the opportunity to act. After all, the Court is not acting of its own motion, but acting on request. Either at the request of an authorized entity, or on the basis of a complaint filed by someone. There's no other option. Thirdly, which I would like to stress and make clear, because maybe not everyone knows that the Court is acting only within the scope of the action, i.e. to the extent indicated by the specific body which makes the application whether or not it lodges the complaint. This entity indicates which provision of the Constitution, or constitutional formula, has been violated. Well, the Court cannot take of its own motion that a particular provision infringes the Constitution if the appropriate model, namely the relevant provision, has not been identified. Besides, we had just this example in the case concerning a ridiculously low fee for a lawyer for running a case for a return to work, which was 60 PLN. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there the constitutional formula was unfortunately formulated by the person who complained as an article. 45 constitutions, i.e. the right to access courts. It was pointed out that the return of the winning side of the fee of PLN 60 does not cover the actual expenses that it probably incurred. But the Court couldn't have said otherwise... What I regret, moreover, is also a cause for discussion, whether or not to introduce a greater freedom of action of the Court, beyond this very strict limit. The Court is also often trying to make this right by using the so-called. false protestio non noket rule, i.e. sometimes accepts as a pattern even other provisions of the Constitution than those directly indicated, in so far as the content of the complaint itself shows what the applicant is talking about, it is indeed a slightly different provision. Yeah, but such decisions as those, unfortunately, are collapsing. Which, in turn, is also embarrassing for me, of course, when I realize that he could read such a judgment. a lawyer from abroad and he would find out that the attorney's fee of PLN 60 does not violate the constitution. Well, that's the amount that in Western European countries is usually a tip, not a barrister's fee. Yeah, but that's the legal reality we live in, not the other one. I purposely give this example, a little humorous, to bring to mind those who may be less in contact with the law, and especially with the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, which are the principles of its operation. However, I would like to express my gratitude to the Court for those judgments which actually protect people, first of all the ruling concerning the involvement of a person who is in detention, i.e. on psychiatric treatment because of insanity, in the proceedings for the extension of that detention. The Court has rightly held that the findings of our Code of Criminal Procedure are flawed in this respect, in which they do not guarantee the participation of such a person in the hearing. Or other judgments concerning the protection of human dignity and related to the enforcement of administrative eviction decisions, where the Court found that the possibility of ruling in administrative eviction decisions against various police, prison or similar employees infringes human dignity. Today, or tomorrow, we will be dealing with the implementation of this judgment by the Constitutional Tribunal. And finally, also the ruling of a couple of regulations or a ruling, albeit concerning a few issues. Also concerning the sphere of human dignity, relating to the search, where the Court pointed out that the regulation of criminal proceedings as well as the various other provisions which give certain services, including city guards, etc., the right to search the human being without indicating what it is, and without any precise indication of what the grounds are and what the means of redress may be... Well, these are issues that are worth emphasising. And you can see that the Court works here, and in a way that deserves to be accepted. That is why, in general, I would like to thank the President for this report and, at the same time, regret that the number of cases recognised is not large. Because I always read the Constitutional Court's rulings and arguments with interest. This serves both the development of the teaching of the law and, in particular, the case-law of the lower courts, which are, after all, based on judgments handed down before the Court. It is a pity that this activity is reduced, but, as I say, it is reduced for reasons that lie not on the part of the Court, but on the part of those who have the right to initiate this procedure. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Time's up.]] And that's where I'd end up. Of course, I always fit in time, Mr. Marshal, every second, as you can see.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u129	Thank you, Senator. You're known for your discipline. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. The next speaker is Senator Zientarski. Five minutes, twice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Radziwiłł tried to apologize, right, not on his behalf, to Mrs Przyłębska. He said it wasn't right... I am going to say this: the most delicately, Minister, I am not speaking in matters of health care and its organisation, but my duty as a constitutionalist and a lawyer's practice is to speak on topics that concern my environment and my knowledge. And let me put it this way: the Court of Justice does not accidentally recognize the case. And no matter what you say, you might be begging for reality. It's the condition of the Constitutional Court. The Court of Justice of the European Union is indisputable, its authority and judicial level are indisputable. And that's what the most outstanding European constitutionalists, the experts of the subject, not the average citizen evaluate. The average citizen has the right to an impartial court. And here, unfortunately, I cannot agree with my esteemed previous speaker, Senator Silence, whom I very much value, and who said that there is no basis for e.g. A civil rights spokesman, but also a group of senators, as I said earlier she filed and then withdrew... But there were no situations where it was clear that there was no counterclaim that without a legal basis, the Court's composition changed three times: from full to five, without a legal basis, and later twice on such important issues. This is the blocking of the Constitutional Tribunal for citizens, because the Ombudsman represents the citizens, the senators represent the citizens, not themselves. And when it comes to the fundamental rights of the citizen and the rule of law, it is impossible to measure, it is necessary to tell the truth, not to measure it so that it is pleasant and pleasant. Well, it's not nice and pleasant, and so am I, saying those words to the person responsible for that black card, to the office that you're serving. That is what this debate is all about. It's not whether you like it or not. We're talking about certain principles that have been broken. That's what the constitutionalists are talking about, and that's what NGOs are talking about. Organizations, I stress. It's competent. We have heard the level of competence raised in the Court. People with a PhD are already in a smaller part, and we know what the trend was before. That's just an example. We'll talk. I say this to everyone, also to Minister Radziwielł. We will speak out loud whether it pleases or not, whether it will be pleasant or not, because we are responsible for the respect of human rights, for the functioning of constitutional bodies and for the fact that a society which is not uniform, contrary to what you say, is so excellently judged by the Court... [[Time's up, Senator.]] We'll judge and face the truth. You've gone backwards before. First you whispered reality, and then, so to speak, without honor, you came back from decisions that... [[Time's up, Senator.]] ...we've been criticizing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u131	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Zientarski set this discussion a little bit in such a way that as an illegal I should not actually speak. Senator Radziwiłł as a senator can speak on medical issues... [[That's what happened in the Polish People's ……]] ...and the others shouldn't. It may be so, but you, Mr Senator, are, to a large extent, a symbol of a constitutionalist's lawyer who spoke about the changes concerning the Constitutional Tribunal in the previous term of office, changes that proved to be, at least in part, unconstitutional. To me, the Constitutional Tribunal as a public body is subject to criticism. It's a good thing it's cultural. It's better for our entire social life. But in this context, as Europeans, we also have the right to speak about the functioning of the Court of Justice of the European Union. You say you can curse reality, that a unique authority... It's okay. You know the law, and I know a little bit about probability. If twice the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union is to take place three days before the elections, then the probability that this is a case is not zero. Reason and knowledge of probabilities require taking into account that this is interference in sovereignty, in sovereign elections in individual countries. That's one thing. Secondly, when I was working in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I looked at the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Within 3 years, the case, which is important for Poland, the case of posted workers, has changed the caselaw by 180 degrees. I stress: 180, from complete freedom to complete limitation. The second sentence, the sentence changing the interpretation, was the judgment in the case, as I recall, of an electrical plant against Finland. That's something to think about, too. Thirdly, the fact is that we can curse reality, but there is a lot of literature, not only Polish, concerning the role of the Court of Justice of the European Union in a more political than judicial project. There is criticism in many works as if it were scientific. I can look for it. I've got literature on it at home. But let's not look too far. If I am not mistaken, the recently resigning President of the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany has allowed himself to have a very devastating criticism of the Court of Justice of the European Union. So, if we are discussing the Constitutional Court in Poland, let us note that the problem with some excessive entry into legal decisions, with a certain jurisdiction of social life, is not only in our country. This is one of the deepest crises, including in other countries of the European Union, and it is worth remembering that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u133	Thank you, Senator. Senator Czarnobaj has a voice. There you go, twice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I think a lot of things have been said here. My first words to Senator Zientarski. Well, not only should those who have legal education speak about this important field, nor should only doctors speak about health care. Well, as it happens, there are more patients than doctors. Minister, these aren't things from the Polish People's Republic. Well, I'm talking about this kind of thing. There are different kinds of behaviors in different parts of the world. Just so-called. The experts want to talk about professional matters. I would also like to talk about what concerns the European Court of Justice. All that is missing is that you, as PIS, reform the European Court of Justice. Of course, the European Court of Justice is an agenda that must also be criticised, which must also be pointed out by weaknesses, but you are pursuing a model. In Poland, I see, you've finished this job for good. I'm about to talk about the effects of this job. And now you're going to the European Court of Justice. You're saying he's become, like Senator Oremski said, more political than judicial. Allegedly, such an intrigue was planned here, so that exactly on May 23rd a ruling would affect the results of the elections in Poland. Well, only someone who does that in his own life can think that others do the same. That's the old rule. Please, my dear Senators of Law and Justice, do not engage in the reform of the European Court of Justice. Let us reform it in the sense of expressing our opinion, criticising certain actions, but let us not say that the European Court of Justice is another, perhaps the fourth Chamber of Parliament. On the issue of rebuilding prestige, today I differ with Senator Bobka in many matters, although I generally agree with him. Professor, ladies and gentlemen, when did the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland suddenly lose its prestige? One can wonder what was the great cause of this, why so much is said in Poland today about the loss of this prestige. Well, why are we talking about this? In 2016, it was done, the CBOS did, I immediately mark it. A study on the Constitutional Tribunal among Poles. Those were the years 2016 and 2017. I'm not going to quote the whole thing because it's long, but I'm going to quote two elements. On whose side do you speak as a citizen in a dispute about the Court Whether you're in favor of the Court or the government, 45% Poles, Polish citizens, replied: we are in favour of independence and on the part of the Court. Only 29% voted for the government. But what's more important? On the question whether PiS wants to rule without control, having a major impact on what is happening at the Court, 49% answered: yes, PiS wants the Court to be subject to the governing party. So, when did this crisis of the Court's authority occur? Who said anything about judges stealing sausages and pants and stuff? What fell from this stand about the Polish judiciary, judges, Professor Rzepliński, the previous composition of the Court? You can read it and watch it any way you want. And you'll see in the mirror what you said back then about the Court. Prestige is not built by a smooth and conflictless presentation of the report. When you look, ladies and gentlemen, at the impact of the cases to the Court, there is a drop to the level of 1998 or 1999... Why is there such an inheritance? Is that an uplift of authority? One of the senators said, 'cause we're making a better law right now. Of course it's better! In two days, with the President's signature... Well, that's a fantastic law. If that is the way the law is created, and there is the control exercised by the Court, that is the number of cases dealt with, then we have a fall in trust. Ladies and gentlemen, in the country where the foundation is destroyed... I would like to tell you from my own point of view, not from the point of view of the state sitting in the bench now, that the state's foundation is not a senator. The foundation is, inter alia, the Constitutional Tribunal, the Court independent of the rulers, independent of the current rulers, the Court which is legally in control of the law. Senators and Members are changing, the rulers are changing, and the Court should, in a legal sense, stand in the same place all the time and control the law that is, whether it is constitutional or not. The restoration of prestige should take place after 2015, i.e. after the destruction of this authority by the current rule of law and justice. When you say... Senator Radziwiłł spoke here about these certain apologies, about how this discussion takes place. I don't want to get into this anymore, and I'm just gonna say one thing. I really encourage you: compare the discussion and the 2014 report and the 2017 discussion and report. I would like to say that, in addition to the decline of all that proves the authority and prestige of the Constitutional Tribunal, there is growth in certain elements, and in particular in one there is a large increase. There is a strong increase in the response of the President in writing to Professor Rzepliński's reply. It was rare that Professor Rzepliński said: I will answer in writing. There were few questions here, but for a large part of them there will be a written answer. Senator Cichoń, a lawyer, spoke of truthfulness, reliable knowledge and use of it. I ran a quick check on myself, 'cause I can't believe... I address this to Senator Cichoń, but also to all the states of the Law and Justice: let us rely on knowledge, facts and experience in our statements, and only later on interpretations. I read in the information on the activities of President Komorowski that during the entire term of office President Komorowski submitted 12 applications to the Court. Not four... [[Voice from the room: There were two.]] Oh, two, two... Well, actually, the one in the front is unnoticeable, Mr. Senator, so... Well, not two, but twelve. I didn't verify those other statements anymore, but as I know life, I'm sure these data are different. I subscribe to Professor Bobka's statement on the restoration of prestige, but such a form, such activity, such a report and such a discussion that took place today in the Senate... as she was, you saw it. I think we won't be able to talk long about rebuilding prestige as far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned. I said this not as a lawyer, Senator, but as a person whose foundation of the state, which is the Constitutional Tribunal, is very much at heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u135	Thank you, Senator. He informs us that the list of speakers has been... Excuse me, sir. Senator Czerwinski is here. There you go, sir. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! I'll speak as an illegal too. I'm a teacher by profession, so forgive me for the legal slip-ups. But there is one thing that is undoubtedly true. Well, this speaker is not to speak falsely, to promote lies. And in our previous statement, we heard that the ruins of the Constitutional Tribunal began with our governments, Law and Justice. That's not true! That's not true. This country, it is you who have corrupted the Constitutional Tribunal. Specific date: 12 May 2015, 2 days after the first round of presidential elections. It is already clear on the 12th of May that President Komorowski has someone to lose to. And then you try to put fuses in the Polish legal system in case you lose both in the presidential elections and in the upcoming parliamentary elections. Again, two days after the first round. And what's the effect? At the meeting of the committee that was then, the Parliamentary Committee, a provision is introduced to the new Constitutional Court Act, which allows the election of 5 members of the Constitutional Tribunal, although... [[Three.]] Just like you lied before, man, right now... Although there was and was such a theoretical possibility that these five elected members of the Court should be elected by the Sejm in the next elections, in the forthcoming parliamentary elections. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. The Constitutional Tribunal with such and not another position in our legal system was to be the third Chamber of Parliament, which would simply block any reforms. That's what you're getting ready for. And it didn't work out. But that's how you broke the Constitutional Tribunal. Most interestingly, the then president and vice-president participated in the work of that committee. And they agreed to those records. Of course, it's unconstitutional. Nobody was arguing back then. Isn't that an uproar, an uproar of authority, if the two most important members of the Constitutional Tribunal allow a manifest violation of the Constitution? To choose the promotion of members of the representative body? That's where it started. And, unfortunately, we had to correct you after you, we had to try to heal the Constitutional Tribunal. And you're still in the same poetry. It's about how, in quotes, intercept it, and if not intercept it, criticize it, postulate it, bring the authority of the Court to nothing. Indeed, there are problems, but these are not problems concerning the nature of the Court's activities, but its position in the general system of law. The question is... But are you? Are you even able to answer that question? A simple question: should the Court limit itself to simple judgments, or should it also issue scope? Should he have the right to range judgments or interpretations? Next question. Whether the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal must be mandatory, or e.g. And it's known in different systems. Would a qualified majority of the Seym be able to touch them? These are basic questions. And I did not get an answer to these questions today in this discussion. All you have done is fight the Court, fight the woman, fight the President of the Court, even though you have contributed the most to ruining it. Reach for the transcript of this committee meeting on May 12th, and you'll see what you did and why. It's just a shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u137	Thank you, Senator. Senator Czarnobaj for the second time. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a shame the lawyers didn't stay here until the end of the discussion wasn't with the lawyers. I address Senator Czerwinski in the style that the senator presented from this bleacher: listen, man... It's on the senator's level. I would like to say that, in what was proposed in the resolutions concerning the appointment of 5 new members of the Constitutional Tribunal, a mistake has been made. As to whether it was a deliberate mistake or not, you can make a distraction here, but I don't want to be involved. A mistake was made not only legal, but also, in my opinion, political. And for this mistake many people, starting with Mr Budka, who was one of the promoters of such an undertaking, said: we apologize. And since you say it's a shame... I personally subscribe to the fact that it was a shame, but regarding the introduction of the promotion of 2 candidates. not 5, but 2 to the Constitutional Tribunal, which the press, not only the opposition, but also the newspaper, which, as you say today, praised the previous power, criticized. That's first of all. Secondly, what did the Court do with the resolution of the Sejm concerning the number of persons? He said, if I remember correctly, because I didn't work on committees. This is not in line with the Constitution for 2 people. What was to be done then? Withdraw these 2 persons and the other 3 who have been elected in accordance with the Constitution, as the Court ruled... But you did what you called healing, saying: we started healing the Constitutional Tribunal. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say yes: arms, Lord God, the Court before such healers In front of those of the Civic Platform who promoted the appointment of these additional 2 people, and in front of all the senators and Members of Law and Justice who, by breaking the law, are today healing the Constitutional Tribunal! And you're right, Mr. Senator, it is a great shame that politicians have assassinated sovereignty, independence, the prestige of the Constitutional Tribunal. The first mistake I'm going to say again The platform withdrew, apologized... I think it was a huge mistake, legal and political. But we've got a lot of punches for it. And you're all wrong today. Because it's not a bad thing that a man makes a mistake, it's that he's stuck in it, and then he comes out and says that you're healing the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, I'll be honest: heal, but in another country, I don't know, in Hungary, in Belarus, heal, but not in Poland! Please, I'm begging you! The Constitutional Tribunal, the President, the members, the employees are to defend themselves with their own authority, so don't let the politicians do it, because we know that if they do it, they'll ruin it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u139	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would Mrs Julia Przyłębska, President of the Constitutional Tribunal, like to speak again? [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Julia Przyłębska: No.]] I would like to thank the President of the Constitutional Tribunal for providing the Senate with information. I state that the Senate took note of the important problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1098, and the report of the committee In print No 1098 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions prepared a report on the Act amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). The Act adapts the Polish legal order to the EU Regulation of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, i.e. GDPR. The amendment removes regulations that are contrary to GDPR or which duplicate GDPR solutions. The Act amends 162 laws to regulate issues related to the processing of personal data arising from GDPR. The Act contains transitional provisions. In principle, the Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 7 March 2019, the committee requests the adoption of the Act without amendments; Senate printing No 1098 A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u141	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place lasting no more than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. We have Mr. Karol Okoński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Karol Okonski: No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling and is included in print No. 1064, and the committee's report In print No 1064 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Act aims to enforce the judgment of the Constitutional Court which challenged the content of the Article. 144 law on enforcement proceedings in the administration. This provision allowed the so-called. The eviction on the street in relation to various services was about the Police, the Prison Service officers or other uniformed services, which was an event. This was contrary, as the Court concluded, to the article. 30 Constitution, which guarantees respect for the dignity of every human being, and with Article. 45 constitutions that guarantee the right of access to court. Therefore, this is a regulation that cannot last, we should execute this judgment. Therefore, the proposals for amendments, which are primarily aimed at making a change in this article, No 144, by introducing a ban on eviction during the protection period, as provided for in the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, i.e. from 1 November to 30 April, and secondly, the introduction in these individual laws concerning uniformed services. This is done by decision, not by judgment, in the case of five categories of persons, including minors, pregnant women, disabled persons, pensioners and pensioners who benefit from social assistance measures. The principle is that, in such a case, if a decision is to be taken, this will not be dealt with in administrative proceedings, but it will be necessary to proceed to legal proceedings, which is the same as in the law on the protection of the rights of tenants. That's the general idea. However, ladies and gentlemen, let me honestly say that I, as I looked at it... Pardon, first I'll tell you what the committee has decided. The Commission has decided to adopt these solutions unanimously, as I recall. However... I don't know if I can say this right now, Mr. Marshal, or then, as I apply for some changes? [[The senator is the host of his speech.]] Okay, I'll add one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some things that I think require some changes, but I have written them and I haven't gotten to these materials yet. If you will allow me, whether now or at the next part of my speech I will reach out to these written aids, because it is difficult to say I remember and operate with article numbers because I don't have enough memory to remember the article numbers. As far as content is concerned, the point is to make a reference to the proper application of the law on the protection of the rights of tenants instead of the existing wording that we propose and which does not exactly reflect... Oh, thank you. Your patron just brought me these words here. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, I believe that there is a need to change these terms which concern the protection of pensioners and pensioners. Because we wrote there that if they take social services benefits, they are subject to this special protection from eviction. I suggest that it might be more appropriate to use the wording that refers to the protection of a pensioner who meets the criteria for receiving social assistance. Why? Well, because often, ladies and gentlemen, it happens that such a pensioner meets the criteria for receiving this benefit and does not yet receive it. Therefore, it is worth protecting him if he meets these criteria, but does not receive the benefit, and he does not receive it, perhaps because either he has not applied, or he is guided by a sense of honor, because I know many such people who, although poor, believe that they will not go to social assistance. But when judicial proceedings are pending, the court may refer to the relevant institutions and determine the property situation of such a person and then she, even if she does not apply for benefits herself and does not receive these benefits, but meets the criteria, shall be protected from that eviction. That would apply to these changes in the article. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. And that would be so much about those pensioners. Next, I propose to amend those provisions relating to referral to legal proceedings in respect of those categories of persons that I have listed as being subject to special protection. Namely, I suggest that instead of the wording so far, we make a direct reference to the specific provisions of the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants. Namely, in cases of this protection, which we guarantee here to these 5 categories of persons, the authority competent to make the decision to empty the dwelling does not make a decision, but refers to the general court a case for the emptying of the dwelling or temporary accommodation. And then there's the record that art. 14, 15 and 18 of the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants applies accordingly here. So there's a clear indication of what the rules apply. And that would also apply to certain amendments to the Armed Forces Housing Act. I'm gonna put all this in the proposal, and I'm not gonna tell it so much in detail. I would like to sum it up in such a way that we simply want to introduce the principle that a pensioner, if he meets the criteria for receiving social assistance, is subject to this protection, as is the case with other persons, i.e. pregnant women, minors, etc. That's what it looks like in general. I'm making a motion in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u143	Stay here, Senator, because there may be questions from your senators at the moment. [[Good.]] Do any of you senators want to ask the Senator rapporteur a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Now I would like to ask if a government representative would like to speak. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Krzysztof Kozłowski: Yes.]] Come on in. We have Mr Krzysztof Kozłowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, we thank you very much for this legislative initiative, which the High Senate has taken, and indulging in a certain political tradition of fulfilling or co-executing the role of guardian of the Constitution, which we have the effect of presenting, which is the subject of consideration of the High Senate. I would like to point out that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration very much supports the initiative which was included in the draft law amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws. It aims to create regulations guaranteeing minimum protection against homelessness of people who are unable to meet housing needs on their own. This need for appropriate legal instrumentation, appropriate regulation, provides, as has already been emphasised in the first statement, the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of mid-October 2017. The provisions which have been challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal shall apply in the course of an administrative execution. And unlike the regulations that refer to judicial executions in civil proceedings, they do not guarantee evicted proper protection from what we call in everyday, publicist language "eviction on the pavement." The rules on eviction from housing in the context of administrative executions do not contain in the current legal state any regulations protecting those who are evicted from homelessness, in particular do not provide for the right to social or replacement accommodation, do not protect persons who are classified as vulnerable: minors, disabled, incapacitated, pregnant women and unemployed. Nor do they provide for the possibility of stopping evictions on the pavement during the winter period, i.e. from 1 November to 31 March. Nor do they provide for the possibility of cessation of eviction if the debtor has not been designated a temporary establishment. The submission prepared by the High Senate goes against those constitutional values, which were specifically defined and underlined in the judgment of the Constitutional Court as a standard of control in these proceedings. These legal mechanisms consist in introducing a provision in the Enforcement Act in the administration that the emptying of the dwelling will not be possible during a particularly protected period, i.e. from 1 November to 31 March, or if it is not able to meet its own housing needs. In addition, if the executing party does not have a legal title to another premises or premises in which he may reside, the eviction under the proposed provisions shall be suspended until the municipality indicates to the required temporary space. I firmly believe that the expected effect of the proposed regulation is to provide protection against eviction on the pavement for people obliged to empty the premises on the basis of an administrative decision, because it is the rigor in which we move in the scope of this translation, as well as the harmonisation of eviction in respect of people evicted on the pavement in civil and administrative procedures. Well, indeed, as the senator emphasized in his speech This deep imbalance in the protection of the legal position of persons who are obliged to empty their premises during the civil procedure and during the administrative procedure must be eliminated, in particular in the name of constitutional values, which have been specified in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to thank the High Senate very much for the work that has been done so far, very substantively, on this presentation. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is very pleased that the two main comments made by the letter of 12 February 2019 were welcomed by the High Senate by the committees. As I understand it, I would like to ask the High Senate to consider this comment or this observation, which is contained in Section 1 of the letter of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration dated 12 February 2019. This proposal is clear, legislative, but also in the context of the subsequent application of the law, it seems to be important. Of course, we are at your disposal at the committee meeting. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u145	Thank you, Minister. Please remain for a while, as the senators may now submit questions to the present meeting of the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Krzysztof Kozłowski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. Please take the floor of Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Actually, I wouldn't speak today, because both the Constitutional Court's judgment and the bill are defending themselves, so I would call it. Besides, the Minister just said it from that speaker. But then, when we talked about this judgment, two categories of laws or two categories of people who might be interested were clearly indicated, so that I would He called it, putting it into effect. The first is the services subordinate to the Minister, mainly because some of them are supervised by other ministers. I'd call them uniforms in general. And that bill. With the minor amendments that you referred to here, Senator rapporteur It's already complete. But the second category, where eviction, let's speak directly, on the pavement in administrative mode can be used, are so-called. Specialists. Specs that were designed to accelerate certain investment processes. I will mention them so that it is clear: the Rail Transport Act of 2003; the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of public road investments of 2003; the Law of 2009 on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports; the Law of 2010 on specific rules for the preparation for the implementation of investments in the field of flood structures; the Law of 2011 on the preparation and implementation of investments in nuclear facilities and accompanying investments; the Act of 2015 on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the field of transmission networks; the Act of 2017 on investments in the construction of the water road connecting Zalew Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk; the Act of 2019 on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. All those specialties. So let's put it this way. Unfortunately, they can lead to such a situation of very far-reaching inequality: it is different in the civil procedure or in the administrative procedure. In no way are those who have this misfortune protected 'Cause they don't even have to wrap up, they don't have to do anything illegal or illegal. That their properties lie e.g. within the proposed motorway or in the course of the proposed pipeline. And then what? Then they are expropriated, deprived... i.e. In addition to expropriation, they are primarily deprived of their ability to live in the premises they occupy. This place or this building just gets demolished and there's a freeway. The question is, what to do with people like that, the more that they, as I say, haven't actually done anything wrong in this situation. We propose in these amendments And thank you very much for your help to the Legal Office, because I wouldn't have minded writing all this myself. To supplement these laws with regulations very similar to those in uniform laws, i.e. to include these people, and they are few, the same benefit, I would say, protective as the one that currently operates... sorry, it is to function in uniform laws. Maybe I'll give you a heads-up. The counter-argument is that, after all, these specialities are formulated in order to bring about the start of the investment as soon as possible. I agree with that. But since you can lean over the worm or over some weed as part of nature conservation in the process of obtaining appropriate permits, all the more so you can lean over the people who live on the proposed highway or on the site of the airport to be built at the same time. So much for these specialty issues. In addition, we propose to supplement in all laws the catalogue of persons who are protected, with another category, namely those who have the status of unemployed, with this category in addition to pregnant women, minors, disabled persons, bedwives, pensioners or pensioners. Why them? Because in the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, which is, in this case, a model, a mother law for these specific laws, this category of persons, i.e. unemployed persons, is also protected. And these are the corrections I make to your marshal's hands. I would ask the High House to vote in favour of these amendments. [[Thank you...]] And, of course, the government has a positive attitude towards them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u147	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would just like to add, in addition to what I have already said, that I would like to propose that these amendments be recognised by the relevant committee. I think that these amendments which I have tabled and the amendments of Senator Czerwinski should be further examined by the committee, which is what I am proposing. Thank you very much. And I'm adding to these amendments the other side that I forgot to join in with per mission.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u149	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Czerwiński and Senator Cichon. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals submitted? Thank you. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. We'll proceed with the examination... Sorry, Senator Cichoń has requested that the committees be scheduled to prepare an additional report in order to carry out the third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear an objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. There's no objection. We're moving on to the next point. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1128 and the report of the Commission • in print No 1128 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, a report on the work of the Committee on 20 March on the consideration of the Government's submission, a bill on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union printing No 1128. The aim of the Act is to create an emergency mechanism in the event of the so-called emergency. a hard brexitu, i.e. the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without an agreement to withdraw from the European Union. If the United Kingdom leaves the European Union without agreement, all primary and secondary European Union law will cease to apply to the United Kingdom on the date of its withdrawal from the European Union. The United Kingdom will become a third country and therefore citizens of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and members of their families residing in other Member States of the European Union, including Poland, will lose their residence rights resulting from European Union citizenship and further rights related to this status, held until that date, and become third-country nationals without a regulated status. The act is intended to prevent UK citizens and their family members from being treated as foreigners illegally residing in Poland in the case of a hard brexitu from the date of their departure from the European Union. This law allows the continuation of the stay in Poland for the same purpose, e.g. carrying out work or continuing business activities, and obtaining relevant residence permits. The Act lays down rules on the residence of citizens of the United Kingdom and their families in Poland, employment and economic activity, social security benefits, posting of workers, driving rights and judicial enforcement in civil matters. It should be noted that the regulations set out in the Act assume the legitimate objective of introducing transitional arrangements in certain areas in the event of the United Kingdom's non-contractual withdrawal from the European Union. The dynamics of the Brexit process and the associated constant uncertainty on the date and form of its conclusion justify the adoption of a law in the proposed form. At the same time, it should be stressed that the proposed solutions are specific, limited to certain categories of cases and to a certain period of time. This law takes into account the principle of reciprocity in its regulations. At the meeting of the committee, the Act was discussed by representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The Legislative Office submitted its observations on the Act, including 4 specific comments on the article. 58, Art. 60, Art. 2 (2) 1 and Article 1 45 and 159, however, without proposing amendments. In its general comments, the legislator indicated that the law should enter into force on the day of the hard brexit. If 29 March 2019, the Senate's amendment to the Act today will not allow the publication of the Act until 29 March. If, in turn, we assume that the perspective of a hard brexite is moving away, but it is still real, changes in the text of the law may be justified. As part of the discussion, the senators asked mainly about the date of entry into force of the Act, knowing that Brexit could take place later than assumed. This type of regulation was also asked in other countries of the European Union. The Ministry's representatives indicated in their reply that, in a situation where an unconventional brexit occurs within a different period, it would still be possible to make an appropriate change. The provisions of the Act should be assessed as an emergency solution, which aims primarily at preventing legal chaos until a more complete and lasting way of relations between the Union and the United Kingdom, and, to the extent permitted by European Union law, relations between Poland and the United Kingdom. In addition, the proposed solutions take into account the guidelines for a favourable approach to the rights of UK citizens currently residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The proposed rules comprehensively regulate the legal situation of citizens of the United Kingdom living, working and conducting business activities in the Polish Republic, and provide for regulations regarding the situation of Polish citizens returning to the country. In the case of a hard brexite, each Member State of the European Union will be required to regulate individually the residence rules of the citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families in its territory, as well as to regulate other matters in national law. It is currently unknown how other Member States will regulate these issues at national level. During the discussion, a request was made for the adoption of a law without amendments. Nine senators voted in favour and three abstentions. The motion has been accepted. The committees are asking the High Senate to approve the bill that has been submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u151	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Krzysztof Kozłowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Krzysztof Kozłowski: Politely please.]] Come to the bleachers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you very much for the opportunity to present your position, for the opportunity to speak. Before I do so in substance, with the permission of the Marshal, I would like to express my thanks to the Vice-Ministers present here for the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, for the Minister and for the Minister of Health, because the law, which is the subject of the High Senate's consideration, is the result of the cooperation of three ministries: internal affairs and administration, family, work and social policy and health. This is a presentation which comprehensively regulates not only residence rights but also social and social issues of British citizens residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland, including access to health services. Of course, this law is conditional and related to the so-called law. A tough or unconventional brexite. In presenting the position of the government to submit to the bill, I would like to kindly point out that the law is primarily against the interests of the Polish State in relations with the United Kingdom on matters relating to the rights, powers and obligations of Polish citizens who reside in the territory of the United Kingdom and whose legal situation may be subject to far-reaching verification in connection with a tough, uncontractual Brexit. In the negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom, the principle of reciprocity was very clear. This principle is directly reflected in the normative layer of the Act under consideration by the High Senate. It obviously has a European, international context and is linked to the implementation of the European Union's declaration to ensure the protection of the rights of the British in individual EU countries. This declaration stressed in the political arrangements that citizens of the European Union in the United Kingdom should not suffer negative consequences if the European Union and the United Kingdom do not conclude an appropriate withdrawal agreement, the Brexit Agreement. Of course, the political debate that is currently taking place in the UK, the United Kingdom, will answer the question of whether it will come to the so-called. a hard brexite in due course, at the end of March, or by the Member States of the European Union, will be given a time extension. Nevertheless, in order to properly prepare our legal order, instrumentarium, government institutions for the residence of British citizens, as well as to provide them with adequate access to social, health benefits, the Act sets out the rules of residence for the citizens of the United Kingdom and their families in Poland, who will benefit from the Treaty freedom of movement of persons from the moment of their arrival. The scope of the Act also concerns the principles: granting and payment of social security benefits, including periods of work and residence in the United Kingdom; carrying out business in Poland by a foreign trader from the United Kingdom who provides services to an employment agency in our country; posting of an employee to Poland from the United Kingdom; protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of an employer who is a foreign trader from the United Kingdom; participation in the economic trade of British foreign persons; accession of citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families to universal health insurance until the granting of a temporary residence permit or permanent residence permit; recognition of documents issued in the United Kingdom stating that they are entitled to drive vehicles and continue to execute judicial proceedings carried out on the basis of judgments of the United Kingdom courts. We are therefore dealing with a very substantial law that regulates the subjective rights of citizens of the United Kingdom in the territory of the Republic of Poland very widely. And the point that I would like to draw attention to: this is a law of first need. Because these are residence issues, that is the scope of issues related to the proper implementation of access to social benefits, but also as vital in everyday life issues as recognition of driving licences issued by the UK Government on the territory of the Republic of Poland. One of the most important issues of the Act concerns residence issues, these fundamental issues and fundamental issues. According to the new regulations, British people and their family members have been living in Poland since the start of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. If it is assumed that this will happen on 30 March 2019. They will have 21 months, i.e. until 31 December 2020, to submit an application to confirm their residence status in Poland. Until then, their legal stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland is fully confirmed, this stay is recognised by our legislation as legal. The right to apply for a permanent or temporary residence permit will be granted to all British people who had a right of residence or a right of permanent residence in our country prior to the date of brexitu. This also applies to members of their families who hold such a residence permit. Authorisations will be exempt from administrative charges. Persons who will have permanent residence in Poland on the day of brexitu, during a transitional period, i.e. until the end of 2020, will be able to apply for a permanent residence permit. Here we applied the principle of full openness of the Polish legal system to ensure the legal, continuous residence of British citizens in the territory of the Polish state. This is a big match to our partners on the British side. This is the opposite, which is also based on this negotiated trust in principle of full reciprocity. Other persons will be able to apply for a temporary residence permit granted for a period of 5 years. After 5 years of legal residence in the territory of the Polish State, also after the completion of the Brexit procedure, the British and their family members will be able to obtain a permanent residence permit on general terms and conditions. According to the submission, under the British law and members of their families whose stay in Poland will be recognised as legal during this period from the date of Brexit until 31 December 2020 and who will be in the course of the temporary residence permit or permanent residence proceedings, i.e. during this procedure confirming the legality of their stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland, will have the right to work or to continue their business activity. In other words, the rights of the British people in the event of the uncontractual exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union have been guaranteed by this law in a very broad, multifaceted dimension. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u153	Thank you, Minister. Mr Marcin Zieleniecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, is also at the meeting. Would the Minister like to speak on the matter? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may raise questions from a place of no more than a minute's duration to government representatives. Are there any such questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Krzysztof Kozłowski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing your senators that no one has signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the act on supporting scientific activity from the Polish Science Fund. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1120 and the report of the Commission in print No 1120 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Kazimierz Wiatra, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, jointly meeting on 19 March this year, discussed the Law on the promotion of scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund; Senate print No 1120. The aim of the Act is to create a new way of financing research and development, as well as their commercialisation, in the form of the Polish Science Fund. The Fund will be financed by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego with the amount of PLN 500 million. Funds of the Fund, in accordance with Article. 2 of the Act will come from special grants from the State budget, interest on free funds of the Fund transferred into deposit, non-refundable funds from foreign sources, loans from loans to the Fund by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, proceeds from bonds issued to the Fund by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, loans from the State budget, donations and entries, receipts from other public funds, proceeds from commercialisation of the results of the research teams referred to in Article. 5 of this Act, as well as revenue from other titles. In order to enable the tasks of the Fund to be carried out on the Supervisory Board, BGK will be represented by a representative of the Minister responsible for higher education. It should also be stressed that the Supervisory Board of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will supervise the management of the funds of this fund. What is most important for researchers is the fact that the funds of this fund will be transferred to finance research teams carrying out research activities in the form of a virtual research institute, in areas identified by the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science, after consulting the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs and for commercialisation of the results of these research. So that's how it's sort of filled with a loophole. The National Science Centre and the National Research and Development Centre will be financed by an action which neither the National Science Centre nor the National Research and Development Centre has so far financed. Activities related to the organisation and management of a virtual research institute will be entrusted to the managing body under contract by the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science. Such subject will be the Łukasiewicz Research Network. This operator will be the Polish Centre for Technology Development. The way the virtual research institute works will differ from the way it has been financed, as funding will be spent on the creation and development of research teams, not work as what the agendas mentioned earlier by me, namely the National Science Centre and the National Research and Development Centre are dealing with. These teams will carry out studies that are part of the established research agenda. It should be stressed that this way these teams will have long-term funding for their work. It will also be possible to cover this early stage of research funding. During the committee meeting, similar solutions were invoked outside our country's borders. Of course, doubts were raised during the committee meeting, questions as to whether this activity could not be included in the existing agendas, the National Science Centre or the National Centre for Research and Development, or even proposals for certain modifications of solutions in these institutions in their current form. 2 proposals were tabled during the committee meeting: first proposal "Rejection of the law, second motion" For adoption of the law without amendment. The Commission adopted a proposal for adoption without amendment by a significant majority. A minority of committees have requested that the bill be rejected. The committee meeting, of course, discussed a number of specific issues. In particular, the opinion expressed by Professor Marciniak, President of the General Council of Science and Higher Education, who stressed that the current system of funding science lacks some flexibility, which is extremely necessary. Besides, there's also a problem, as the professor calls it, risk capital. The point is that we know that, on the one hand, where this risk is greatest, the chances of great discoveries are greatest and, on the other hand, taking this risk from the point of view of, for example, the Public Finance Act or taking into account other conditions under which science and higher education operate is difficult. Of course, this is an important argument. It was also raised, which is not indifferent, that this is an increase in funding for science by a specific amount, by the 500 million PLN. There is hope that additional amounts will also be allocated for this purpose. It was also stated that this amount, which Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will transfer for these purposes, is not taking funds from the bank, because in the earlier period the bank was intentionally provided with funds, because it was already foreseen that these funds would be earmarked for this purpose. So that I hereby ask the High House to comply with the proposal of the joint committees, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, and to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u155	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Piotr Wach, to present a proposal for minority committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u156	Thank you very much. The motion of a minority of committees, as has already been said, concerns the rejection of the law. The reason for this is neither excessive research resources nor objectives, I would say, a desire to strengthen certain segments of research. However, there are several reasons. Namely, first of all, the organization. The creation of another parallel system, in principle not subject to significant control, as in the case of other major funding streams for science, is one thing. Secondly, these are current financial matters, i.e. the removal of PLN 500 million from BGK's statutory fund. I'll start with the financials. It is so that, according to the basic text of the Act, the first source of funding is a targeted grant. And it would be okay if this year's budget provided for such a subsidy and provided for such a possibility of financing. But this year, 30 days after the entry into force of the Act, BGK's statutory fund will be reduced by PLN 500 million, against which the bank itself protested. The Attorney General also had reservations about this solution. It's about the finances and the question, so to speak, the power of science. Of course, the Minister explained and said that the bank was being co-financed, e.g. in 2017. But Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego currently conducts various activities related to financing, so to speak, activities of higher education and science, e.g. loans, loan write-offs, student loans, etc. It is now difficult to say what these matters look like on the balance sheet, but the statutory fund is being formally reduced here and the financial security of the bank is affected. And that is without doubt because this issue was raised by other government agendas. It was about finance, and about the method used in the solution, which is this way of funding research... This is the second parallel path. At the previous meeting we discussed the scientific network of Łukasiewicz and the Centre of Łukasiewicz and voted on it. In fact, that system is a system parallel to the basic system, namely the National Centre for Research and Development and the National Science Centre, which conducts competitions, finance and control of spending money on research. The Centre of Łukasiewicz de facto is controlled by ministers, by a team of ministers that creates a collegial body there. And actually, it also decides... I mean, he's also in a position not to accept the President's report and remove it. And there one of these five is also a deputy minister from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. In this case, with this fund and this funding path, which is called the Polish Science Fund, it actually has only and quite alone, I would say that with very moderate control, the Minister of Science and Higher Education. The criticism is that the funding system for science and all funds should go quite basically through controlled paths. And if there is insufficient or insufficient flexibility, inadequate provisions for the creation of e.g. a virtual institute against which I do not protest particularly, although it is a special name for research teams... So the research team is creating a virtual institute here, and this institute is signing a contract with the managing body. In this system there is also a higher education unit or research institute, let's call it industrial or departmental, which employs the project leader. It is a vertical, complicated structure, poorly controlled, which complicates the system and actually leads the Minister for Science and Higher Education to pursue some scientific goals that he intends to pursue. This is what criticism is about, and this is the reason for the minority's motion to reject the law, not to improve or increase funding for research, in particular for implemented research. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u157	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Rotnicka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u158	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Commissioners of the Commission, I have listened to these reports, I have also read the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and I have actually very mixed feelings. What exactly is the purpose of this bill? I think I'm putting myself in the tone of the discussion that Senator Wach was talking about here. Why exactly are we creating this new way of financing science? Because I generally take it this way: well, what's happening right now isn't very good, and we as a government or we as a state formation don't have an exact or profound influence on what's going on, so we're going to create something new where there's a simple path to say, prescriptive-resolution. That's how I feel about it. Well, first, we're going to take some money from the National Farms Bank, then we're going to call our, say, supervisory board. I don't know who's gonna be on this board. And we will, so to speak, promote those research topics that we really care about. Am I thinking right? I address both Senator Wind and Professor Wach. That's my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u159	You're welcome, gentlemen of the Senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u160	Mr. Marshal, Minister, in fact, the senator has made such a longer consideration, and this question is not so harsh, but I will do my best to answer it. There is no doubt that the grant system that operates, based on the National Science Centre and the National Centre for Research and Development, does not in the systemic sense secure the financing of science in Poland. There's no doubt that it is. I think that many times the grant system as such has been criticised, although I am far from criticizing it. However, I am convinced that the funding system for various scientific projects should be extremely heterogeneous, as needs are heterogeneous. Of course, in the past, apart from grants from the National Science Centre and the National Centre for Research and Development, there was so-called. the statutory grant and it is as if it were to be the financing of the basic research work. At the moment, the new Law on Science and Higher Education has transferred these funds to subsidies and it's kind of there. But when you look at these tools or these financing methods, you'll see that we have the National Science Centre, the National Research and Development Centre, we have NAWA, we have trips, we have, let's say, as part of the subsidy statutory activity, but there are still areas I'm sure there's a lot of them, and I'm only going to mention 2 of them that aren't completely covered. There are research teams that require funding over a longer period than, say, 2, 3 years, extremely needed either because of the interests of the state, either because of the interests of the economy or because of some other important interests and hopes, and they do not fit into this. On the other hand, mentioned here and by me, and by Senator Piotr Wacha, the rapporteur of the minority, this virtual institute and the Łukasiewicz network are also one element that is poorly placed in this. And now the main problem is this. And this is probably where you'd have to show a slide like this. What are the financial resources in these particular areas and what are the potential needs. And only then could I try to answer the senator's question. So, as for the qualitative answer, I think I gave it, and as for the quantitative answer, then I don't have the right instrument to do it. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u161	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u162	I'd say... I've said it more or less, but I'll be more specific. More or less, I said this in my report, as part of the criticism of the law. But let me be more clear: through this law, the Minister wants to free himself from the ties that the system of financing research so far has imposed through the NCBR and NCN institutions. That's for sure. The Minister simply wants to have money and decisions. Decisions on what areas of science to finance and money in such a way that this year he wants to have money out of the budget immediately. That's one thing. Secondly, the same objectives could be pursued directly through the Łukasiewicz Research Network, which was also criticised and in its case I also requested rejection, but it is already accepted, this law is already signed. Therefore, there is a difference: it is not only the Minister of Higher Education who decides that. In decisions concerning the Łukasiewicz Research Network, he is in a definite minority. This advice, which decides everything properly, consists of five vice-ministers, let's say, in proportion to the contribution of the institutes that have entered the network. So that this is, in my view, a voluntary project that simply wants to give tools and decisions to the Minister of Science and Higher Education. Is that right? In my opinion, no, because all decisions made in person are subject to much stronger influence and economic conditions than those which are more closely controlled. The correct solution should be either deeper or deeper. Amendments to the laws concerning NCBR and NCN, or to minor corrections to the Łukasiewicz Research Network. [[Can I ask you another question? Very briefly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u163	Here you go, Senator Rotnicka, then the Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u164	I take it as Just like Senator Wach said. A departure or a release from what is so far. All the more so because this, say, new funding path is to be filled with full guaranteed funding. And we don't know for how long. Because now, in fact, grants have been settled over three years, and not always a given project could be completed in these three years. And maybe there wasn't any funding. And here there's some kind of convenience: if the program has public or government approval, then we'll work five years and six years and it's like there's no axe over our heads. But it's just like adding to the speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u165	To speak. Any of the senators want to comment on that? No. This is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have the following question. As I understand it, the status of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will also change, since the minister from the vending machine, under the law, will delegate his representative to the supervisory board of the bank. If, in the opinion of the committee, it is necessary for the supervisory board of the bank, the institution par excellence of the bank, to have a representative... And now: how many is this supervisory board, and what can such a representative in this council play? Well, here, I guess, that's important. Because, as I understand it, the motivation for this is that simply the distribution of the funds that will be earmarked for the research, the projects... The point is for the Minister to have some insight into these matters and to be able to justify in some way those projects that he or the government would like them to be implemented. I think it would be a question for Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u167	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u168	Thank you very much. I'd say interference is written down in transitional regulations. As far as BGK is concerned, it is quite far-reaching because the statute of the bank is changing, the composition of the supervisory board is changing. Not in a decisive way, because it increases from 12 to 13 people, it also increases by 1 person the minimum number of people needed to make a decision, present at the meetings. The scope of the bank's activities is also extended because the bank is required to carry out a number of supervisory activities in relation to the fund, and, if I am not mistaken, it is obliged to But it's according to its own decision. For the granting of guarantees and loans to this fund if they prove necessary. But I don't think you're imposing any frameworks on the bank here, just pointing to the bank as a creditor as well... I would say this: the case is very debatable, the bank protested against it. But on the other hand, it must be said that the same bank is an entity that largely deals with science and higher education It was about student loans, it was about student loans... Is this the right solution? I don't know. But that's actually what happened. This single minister's representative of some sort of balance in the bank voting doesn't seem to interfere, I wouldn't be afraid of that. However, as I say, the bank clearly And that comes from government materials, because I didn't have any other than those presented by the Ministry in the context of inter-ministerial consultations... I'd say Despite all the criticism that I have made here against this project, and despite the motion to reject the procedure, I have no charges. The Ministry of Science and Higher Education does it decently. I mean, it was a government project, the minister is present and defending it, which is actually the author, there is a person who justifies it, and the method of agreeing or consulting with other individuals is decent. And I have no objection to that. However, there is no doubt that there have been many critical votes and from a bank that does not wish to accept these actions and had reservations in the context of violations of the Statute, and from the Public Prosecutor's Office of the General Treasury, which had doubts and asked whether this case did not require notification due to EU regulations on the stability of banks.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u169	Senator Jackowski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u170	The senator's answer raised even more doubts in me. Namely I admit that I do not know who appoints members of the Supervisory Board of BGK, but I assume that the Ministry of Finance has a significant share in this. And my question would be so... Well, BGK is carrying out various, so to speak, state orders, right? This bank goes through various measures, aimed at various areas of our social life Is there any practice now that BGK's Supervisory Board will have individual representatives of those departments on which the funds from this bank are directed? Because in a situation like this, we'd have a pretty specific banking institution that... Well, actually, the bank has a pragmatism... Of course, it can be an investment bank, it can be a special purpose bank that is dedicated to... it can be a commercial bank, it can be a bank dedicated to the service of individual customers or collective entities, etc. Well, there could be different bank profiles. But every bank is based on a commercial code. And someone has a coded, criminal responsibility when they sit in the governing bodies of such institutions. How is it all gonna be about each other? What's it gonna be like with that outfit? My question is, but I do not know to which senators: do other ministries outside the Ministry of Finance have representatives on the Supervisory Board of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u171	Mr. Senator, I suggest... do you want to answer? [[I haven't answered Senator Rotnicka yet.]] Okay, but I suggest you repeat those questions to the Minister, because I think... I don't want to defend the senators' answers, but this is a rather complicated matter. I'll tell you that at another point in the 20th, there'll be a Deputy Minister of Finance, and I think the Marshal in charge will give you an answer. [[Mr. Marshal, but then I'll have a rule-of-law charge that I'm discussing...]] If I drive, you won't have a charge, and I don't think the other marshal in charge will let that happen either. [[Thank you.]] There you go, Senator rapporteur for the majority.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senator Jackowski is completely impeccable, so you can't... But I'll get back to the senator's question. Senator, it is not that these funds will be given once and for all without a limit of time and amount. There's art. 8th Act, which clearly states that this management entity selected in the competition will be among others.. There are 9 points on the scope of its activities. Two of them say that... It is the task of the managing body to carry out an evaluation of the scientific activities of research teams and the final evaluation of research teams; to supervise the performance of tasks by research teams and the regularity of spending funds from this fund. In the mouth. Article 2 8 is developed, which means supervision, and it is detailed here that the management body may: request information and explanations from research teams and their leaders and entities referred to in Article. 11; control the performance of tasks; suspend the payment of funds; discontinue the payment of funds; carry out other supervisory activities, etc. So that I think it's written, just to do it right.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u173	And does that mean that after winning this competition, let's say, in this new body by the managing body, when it's awarded... Is there a time to perform a given task when a certain amount has to be settled? Time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u174	I can't answer that question in detail, but in my first statement, as the senator remembers, I said it was a long time... [[Than I've ever seen before.]] ...to stabilise the work of certain research teams whose activities and action plan are important.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u175	Thank you, Senator. Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am directing my question to a minority representative, Senator Wach. I think the senator has always been a member of the scientific corporation. Mr. Senator, how is it that the government agrees, not directly, but it agrees, to pump it, let's call it colloquially, an additional 500 million PLN in the field of science, and the science corporation's representative says it's not a bad bill? I understand it's a tool, I mean. The virtual institute may not be very good, but I would like to ask if such tools, of this type, although they may not necessarily be called, are used e.g. in Western Europe, in the United States, where science is even higher than ours. If so, why defend yourself against this tool? All the more so, as I say, in this way an additional amount of money is pumped into science.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u177	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u178	At first, I said I didn't mind additional funding for research. I would also like to draw attention to the proportions. This is about 500 million zlotys. This is a lot, especially for an individual or a single university, but every year our science is financed at, say, 10 billion. So let's not go overboard here. I'm not a banking specialist, but at the request of the government, Parliament will reduce some bank's statutory fund... Such examples, I'll be honest with you, I don't know. I think it's an event. I have also heard very malicious voices on this subject, but I will not repeat them, because it is not our goal to repeat things that are not fully tested. It's not a mechanism that could really provide something. This is actually a start for a program that, I hope, is honest. I'm in a minority. I'm sure this bill will pass. But I hope that this bill will bring other positive fruits beyond propaganda and besides that the Minister of Science and Higher Education will have in his hand a tool that he probably wants to have.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u179	Thank you. [[It's not like that.]] There you go, senator one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u180	There's an old saying: what does a horse care if a car falls over? If I'm a member of a science corporation, I want the money to be as much as possible, and that it's taken from a bank... I'm sorry, but I'm sure BGK's operating more than $500 million and he's gonna make it, he's gonna make it. And if he doesn't make it, then... That's what you're here for, to keep him alive. I'm asking about the tool, maybe this tool is being tested. But that has to prove why it's wrong. Recognizing that the bank's statutory fund was reduced by $500 million as part of a bill flipping out, as far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry, it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u181	You're welcome, Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u182	This was one of the 3 arguments that the minority put forward as a reason for rejection. In addition, I was talking about systemic matters, that is, the creation of a path of voluntary financing in the Minister's hand. This is perhaps even more important, although these banking principles are very important. I think that they are very important, because if you accept this method, a sufficiently strong minister in the right financial situation could interfere, so to speak, in banking matters deeper, and that could be dangerous. I must say that the minister who probably wants to be here was still defending the case in such a way that the bank had previously been financed in this amount and prejudiced that it would have this type of expenditure. Is that so, I don't know, because the bank runs a variety of higher education issues... However, formally this is the case: the statutory fund is reduced within a 30-day period. As far as corporate affairs are concerned, I don't represent any corporation. I don't think it's scientific or anything. I represent the point of view of the opposition and the minority who thought that this path of creating funding was inappropriate, although the objectives are right. The virtual institute may be, although it is just another name In another organization, it is likely that the law allows it to do so. The study team. He's actually located in some scientific unit specified in the bill. This is a scientific unit where he works so-called. The leader. As for competition, it's just that competition might be, or may not be, because basically the minister determines... By the way. I don't see any reason here, nor do I consider myself a representative of any corporation, especially since I've been completely on leave in the college sense, for years since I've been in Parliament... Even Professor Marciniak, who was present at the committee meeting, spoke very carefully on this matter, even though he was opting for this bill to pass and that the funds should be transferred this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u183	Thank you. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u184	Thank you very much. To both senators of the rapporteurs Senator Wind and Senator Wach. I have the same questions. Gentlemen Senators, that is 500 million PLN... I believe that in general finding funds to support science and research is something important from the point of view of Poland's development, Polish economy and building the competitiveness of the Polish economy. But naturally, the devil is in the details. I have a question. This 500 million is the global amount that will be at the disposal of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the course of the financial year, or in the longer term? If so, what is it? That's the first question. Was there a discussion on this on the committee? And second question. Will it be aid in the form of a non-refundable grant? Will there also be other forms of support under these 500 million, e.g. Refund forms such as loans or loans? If this is grant aid, non-refundable, it is the question of how many projects it can be allocated. Because it's not a big amount. [[Mr. Senator, I have a half-hour break to make.]] Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u185	I'm gonna have to leave this place for the bureau. I'm asking for an answer, but it's short, so we can end it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u186	I have to say one sentence first. I do not agree with the last sentence of the previous speaker, the rapporteur for minorities. I have a memo from the committee meeting with the speech of Professor Marciniak, President of the General Council of Science and Higher Education. I don't see any doubts in this memo that Senator Wach was talking about. The professor said that this was a good test, he talked about the necessary dynamics of science, about the lack of flexibility in science, about risk capital, about the economy not providing science with capital, and about the fact that it is very necessary, a good initiative. That's what I wrote down. About Senator Slugocki's question... I don't know if you've been... [[No.]] Exactly. Using the print, I read the article. 2th Act, which states that the funds of the Fund come from: special grants from the State budget; interest on free funds of the Fund transferred into deposit; funds from non-refundable foreign sources; loans from loans to the Fund... [[That's not what I asked. You didn't understand my question. I'm so sorry. I asked how these research teams would be supported. Is it non-refundable money, grant money...]] In my opinion, this is the subjective financing of these teams. [[Okay.]] Individual funding. [[But non-refundable? I have to...]] Well, subjective funding is non-refundable. [[Okay. Is it just gonna be this form, or is it gonna be the other form?]] I can't tell you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u187	Thank you, Senator. Would Senator Wach like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u188	I have to say I refer to this financing, up to PLN 500 million that this is a start-up form. As far as the bill is concerned, it merely says that the statutory fund is being reduced within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. There are no other dates. The Minister, who is present here, Minister Dardziński, presented the point of view, interpretation or the way in which the law is applied. He said, first of all, that the government's intention was to fund cancer research, and secondly, so that I wouldn't be afraid that the 500 million would suddenly take the bank away. This is expected to be financed for 10 years at 50 million. Of course, there is nothing in the papers about this, but such verbal explanations were given at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u189	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Messages, please. I'll take a break in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u190	The meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in administration and certain other laws will take place at 16.40 in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u191	Dismissed until 5:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 34 to 17 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u192	I'm extending the break until 5:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 01 to 17 minutes 19]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the act on supporting scientific activity from the Polish Science Fund. Before the break, we finished asking the rapporteurs questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Science and Higher Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Piotr Dardziński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Dardziński: Yes, please.]] Yes, Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Dardziński: Yes.]] You're welcome. Well, in that case, you're welcome to the podium. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present briefly the main assumptions concerning the bill submitted for approval of the Senate on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund and, if you will allow me, refer briefly to the discussion, all the more so since it was mentioned that some of the questions could possibly be answered by the Ministry. The proposed instrument of the Polish Science Fund allows long-term financing of research teams, which will be able to carry out their research projects and change their research objectives during their course. And that is the fundamental difference between the functioning of this instrument and the National Science Centre or the National Research and Development Centre. The innovation of this solution is that it is long-term. Unfortunately, the rules of functioning of the state budget mean that each of our agencies operates within short, annual, maximum 2-, 3-year deadlines. We're not able to make a budget for 10 years. In this case, we reach for an instrument consisting of the creation of a fund which will be funded once by the statutory fund of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. 500 million PLN will be transferred to this fund. Then we will gradually pay funds to the research teams that will be selected by the operator. In the case of the first virtual research institute, this operator will be the Polish Centre for Technology Development in Wrocław. The role of the operator is to manage the project, i.e. to select in cooperation with the experts, I stress this once again. . relevant research teams that may come from different units. Then, according to what had already been said before, It will be necessary to assess the work of these research teams and decide whether further financing tranches will be launched for these teams. Such a mechanism is impossible to apply within the framework of the existing philosophy of both the National Science Centre and the National Centre for Research and Development. Nor would it be advisable to mix such instruments in agencies which, in principle, function differently. These are the main advantages of the operation of this fund. The first one is long-term. Teams will be set up once. It's gonna be a dozen teams. They are to carry out research projects that will be evaluated all the time. They will be granted a five-year grant decision and the extension of up to 10 years will take place if, after 5 years, the results of their work are assessed in an appropriate manner. Why the long-term? Well, these research teams should gather the best scientists and respond to the most important problems we face from the perspective of public policies. You're right. Yes, these are the resources allocated to science, which is intended to solve public problems. As the first public problem in the case of a virtual research institute to be managed by PORT, an oncology area has been identified. We have to fight cancer, but it's not about doing a lot of research, it's about getting the best teams to carry out research on a systematic, long-term basis, even if they don't immediately benefit. The point is that this long-term perspective allows these teams to carry out projects that start from the beginning. In this way, these teams will also build a competitive advantage in relation to other research projects. The result of this should be the creation of staff of scientists with wide competence, who will simultaneously solve the problem of fighting cancer and build Polish industry, because the effects of scientific projects will be commercialised. And here comes the element of maneuverability in this mechanism. Research teams receive a grant that is non-refundable, that is, their maintenance is financed so that they can function calmly, stablely. The benefits of commercialization of these effects go partly... Because this is a division that will be agreed upon in the agreement between the scientists themselves. The fruits of their work should also remain their income, also their financial income, and the investor who invested in these researches. So it's partly a feedback mechanism. It may turn out that invested more or less... Estimation is that it's going to be 10 teams, so let's say each of them, over a ten-year period, is going to get 50 million, which is about 5 million years after a year. Although this can be distributed differently, e.g. so that we invest in one team of 55 million in 10 years, 50 million, but the profit of commercialization will be much higher, not to mention, of course, the benefits that relate to the health and life of those who will benefit from the results of these researches. The very important thread that you discussed was the mechanism for creating the fund. The Fund is created in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Payments shall be independent of any decision of the Minister for Science and Higher Education. They depend on the proper process between the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the operator who manages this virtual research institute. In order to be able to properly supervise this process, the Minister of Science will indeed have a representative on the supervisory board of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Senator Jackowski mentioned... He actually asked me how this mechanism works. Already today, BGK has representatives of the Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, KPRM, Ministry of Investment and Development. So it's not breaking a rule. The nature of this bank This is something that you have repeatedly mentioned during the discussion, precisely defining some of the problems that arise. The fact is, he's performing public tasks. Ministers therefore delegate their representatives there, who are of course competent to sit on the bank's board. The Ministry not only locates the fund for PLN 500 million in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which would also give it some reason to have a representative on the Supervisory Board. But I would also like to mention this, in accordance with the regulation of the Law on Higher Education and Science, which entered into force on 1 October, all funds which come from public funds and are transferred to scientific units are distributed through the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. So all entities wishing to benefit from various types of subsidies and grants must establish an account with Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. This means that approx. 20 billion PLN, which will then be distributed. So that is also a very strong reason for the Minister of Science to have his representative on the supervisory board of the bank. We are not violating any previously adopted rules here. Senator Wach was quite critical of the procedure for transferring these funds. I think we're dealing with a little bit of a misunderstanding here. The funds to the statutory fund of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego were transferred on the basis of an amendment to the Budget Act of November 2017, i.e. As has been said, this project is not an emergency project. It was carefully prepared in a long process. The decision to transfer these measures was also taken by the High Senate by amending the Budget Law. In the amendment of the budget law, it was clearly indicated that this 50 million PLN is intended for the creation of an instrument that will finance research. So that these measures cannot be consummated That's what Senator Wach said. by e.g. student loans or student loans would be incompatible with the destiny that was adopted by the High Senate by Parliament. Thus, these funds were transferred to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego by law and are now transferred to the proper purpose under the Act in accordance with the original provision. There is nothing unusual or non-standard here, as Senator Wach said, in relation to other countries, this is a standard procedure. The Bank for the transfer of these funds is zero, the bank knew that sooner or later the funds from the statutory fund would be transferred to the special-purpose fund, in this case A flow fund. The mechanism is not original again, because a similar flow fund is e.g. The road fund, it works very much the same way. So that the bank is not surprised by the fact that such funds operate within its activities. I would also like to stress, because very often this thread appeared, that in a natural way Since this is a government submission, all elements of this instrument have been agreed with the relevant ministers, in particular the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, who supervises the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, and naturally with the Minister of Finance. So that the arrangements at the level of the ministries have been made. So here there was no discrepancy and doubts as to whether, as it was indicated, the risks associated with such a fund would arise. It's a very safe procedure, it's controlled, it's nothing unusual. The innovation process begins when we select teams. I would also like to thank you very much for the attention you have given to Senator Czerwiński, asking if there are any examples, or rather that we are discovering something that did not exist anywhere, and we are trying to apply some untested practice. In the case of this project, we have been very inspired by the Flemish example. This is the first virtual research institute in Europe, the Flemish research institute. It has achieved a huge success in the field of science, as shown by the fact that it is there, if I remember correctly, perhaps about 30 ERC grants have received so many grants from these dozen teams. and revenues from commercialisation, which in the first years were probably at the level of several tens of millions of euros. Thus, since those countries that are mature, which as if they had a mature system of funding science, had such a problem that having similar agencies, the NCN and the NCBR are agencies similar to those operating in western Europe, they had a problem with how to finance long-term grants and, even more importantly, how to finance long-term human teams... Well, the mechanism today is that if a unique team is created in connection with the acquisition of a grant for 3 years, then before it gets another grant, there is a gap and very often this team and these competences of the team disperse. It is in this case that the virtual research institute stabilizes the functioning of the team and allows for further challenges. It is like a different philosophy of action than the philosophy of grants, which, like every principle, has its strengths and weaknesses. Thus, using the experience of the Flemish Institute, we have prepared a solution which is of course appropriate to the Polish situation, because it is not a simple copy, but there is about the same orientation for the goal, the same stabilisation of research teams, the same possibility of flexibility of operation of teams. The basic difference is that in the case of the virtual Flemish Institute, a unit was really created that employed all scientists. In our case, we're not even going to hire scientists so we don't generate any extra costs. This is by far the cheapest way to transfer research funds, that is, nowhere else is it so that each zloty is so much transferred to scientists. It is legally regulated that the manager can only download and only for project management up to 5% the whole capital, and this is far less than what is valid e.g. in investment funds, and without comparison less than what concerns large agencies, which we simply need to maintain at all times. And last note, i.e. a remark concerning this Voluntarism or centralism and allegations against the Minister of Science and Higher Education. The entire role of the Minister for Science and Higher Education is limited in this case to identifying the research area. If further virtual research institutes are set up, which can be located in very different units, again according to the competition procedure, then the Minister of Science will each time define why, what area of research should this virtual research institute be dedicated to. In turn, this dedication stems from the basic strategic documents of the State and from the challenges facing you, it is not as if the Minister's personal or individual decision. Except for the first operator, which is directly indicated in the Act and which is a public entity, all other operators will be selected in competitive mode. Also in the contest mode, with the participation of experts, research teams are emerging, i.e. this expert element, including independent experts, will appear here, as in all our agencies. The Minister will have the same impact on the selection of teams and research projects at the virtual research institute as for the selection of research projects at the National Science Centre, because this system is so designed. And that guarantees him a lot of efficiency. Finally, I can only say, because the BGK thread was very lively by your discussion that BGK's equity is about PLN 20 billion, so the creation of a 500 million fund is not something that could destabilise the bank's situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u194	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questions to a government representative. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski wants to ask you a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u195	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, thank you for your explanations about BGK's Supervisory Board. But I have some questions. First question. I didn't really get it. This 500 million is supposed to go to BGK or have it ever? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u196	He's been in the bank for a year. [[Exactly. Listening to your statement, I got the impression it was meant to be. So he's here.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u197	So I understand that it's not going to be reduced by that amount... well, that was raised in the discussion. That's one thing that's been cleared up. Second thing. I mean... When I looked at the results of the bill's consultation It was on the sejm's pages. I've seen that there's a question raised by BGK. It was such a suggestion not to change the statutes of the BKG, as it is said that work on the new BKG law is being carried out in parallel. Would the Minister like to explain that? The consultation shows that this comment has not been taken into account. Some of the comments were explained, and this one was not explained. And another one of my questions. It's the oncology. I absolutely do not diminish the rank of the problem, please understand me well, but since we are dealing with such a fierce competitiveness of really great global centres, are we able to achieve such success in this area that, as I understand it, overcome these centres? Maybe the Minister would like to tell you what the Ministry's assessment is here. I absolutely do not detract from anyone's rank, role, accomplishments; please understand me well. All we know is that the United States or other countries simply have whole systems that have been operating for decades, they have developed procedures, teams, financial opportunities, different facilities. Can we just compete on an equal footing with these very strong centers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u198	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, maybe I'll start at the end. If you don't mind, I'll use a short example or an analogy. As you know, Polish team, Polish company and Polish research institute participated in the last NASA landing mission on Mars. And as we talked to the inventors working on this component that flew to Mars, they said, it's not a success from a year or two ago, it's a success that started 25 years ago, when no one ever thought it would be possible to fly to Mars. This long term is because we in the short term... the senator is absolutely right if someone gave us 3 years, we wouldn't be able to compete with those who are the best today. But if someone gives research teams time in a ten-year perspective, they can start looking where everyone's at first. And that's, you know, conclusive. Because science changes all the time. The fact that someone has gained an advantage in some area, in some technology, in some research project means that we're probably not gonna get ahead of him in this area. But we need to start looking for new areas that will build such potential. As far as capital is concerned, I may not have explained it precisely. In November 2017, the Budget Act was amended for 2017. In 2017, the Bank received these funds. So actually, well, it's almost... well, not two years, but a year with a piece of money just waiting for the fund to run. And then there was... I'm sorry, but I missed one question. [[Maybe I'll say it again. Here, in this consultation...]] Oh, consulting, yes, yes... [[...the Seym was a reservation about the bank, with such a suggestion not to change the bank's statute...]] Yes. Let me get this straight. [[...because there is a parallel work on the new BGK Act...]] Yes. [[And here this remark is such an annotation that has not been taken into account. As if the Minister would like to explain why...]] Yes. Let me get this straight. In this case, the initiative on the preparation of the law is on the side of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, which is supervised by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. And we just asked for the opinion of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. And the ministry recommended that because this is not a controversial matter and it will be included in the submission which is being prepared and the work on the bill is ongoing and it is unknown when exactly it will end, it is possible for pragmatics to write this point. Because we have, so to speak, preconceived that he will be included in this broader revision of the rules of operation of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, in which we are no longer, by nature, taking part.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u200	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u201	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo... [[Senator... oh, I'm sorry. It'll just be a minute.]] ...2 questions. A brief remark and a question, actually. This brief remark relates to naming. At the entrance, as this law entered the Sejm, it was to be the managing body of PORT. Polskie Ośrodek Rozwoju Technologie, a limited liability company. The Łukasiewicz Network Act turned him into one of the institutes. And now it's called the Łukasiewicz Research Network, the Polish Centre for Technology Development. But in the print we have the technology. It's a small thing, but then there could be problems. I don't know how it's gonna be recorded and printed in the registry log. This probably can be deleted without correction as a printing error. But there can be no such thing as this. It's an art. Paragraph 7 Point 1 (1). So the point is to cross this out of the name. Well, there's no such thing as here in print. And the question, more general. You told the Minister about oncology. And in some other fields of science, could this institution work?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u202	It's again, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much for your questions. I'll start at the end. I told you about oncology, but the first virtual research institute will probably not only deal with oncology, because we always want to leave the researchers some freedom in proposing these research areas. The Minister defines the one that is the priority. We don't have plans right now... We want to run this virtual research institute, and then we'd like to... That's also related to the measures. The natural thing is the temptation to launch more virtual research institutes, but this would mean a dispersion of resources. This 500 million PLN is intended for 10 years. It's supposed to be stable, it's supposed to be like some kind of iron capital for these research teams. If the fund is powered because it can be powered, in accordance with Article. 2, in very different ways Then we will work on a new, next concept of a virtual research institute. I will admit that the first topic that appeared during the work on this first WIB was the subject of artificial intelligence. It was said that we would also like to have teams, permanently functioning research teams that would deal with artificial intelligence. But please consider this declaration as some kind of working statement, not a hard declaration. As far as PORT is concerned, in fact in the recent period we have prepared several laws, but initially their adoption cycle was slightly differently planned, PORT was to be converted earlier into a research institute which was to enter the Łukasiewicz Research Network, but unfortunately the creation of the Łukasiewicz Research Network was delayed due to the priority of our main law, the system, or law on science and higher education. And as the senator pointed out, this is the same institution, because the Łukasiewicz Research Network, the Polish Centre for Technology Development in Wrocław, acquires all rights and obligations, enters into all the rights and obligations of the existing PORT company, the O.O. company. So there are no risks here. But it is indeed a process of transformation. Today, when I'm talking to you, PORT is still an o.o. company. And she's gonna be the O.O. Company. by March 31st. And since the Law on the Łukasiewicz Research Network has already been signed by the President and published, in these documents it already appears as the Institute of the Łukasiewicz Research Network. And this mistake is for... [[One point: remember this mistake.]] Yeah, yeah. Thank you so much for bringing this to our attention. I think we're gonna bend over to that problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u203	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u204	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, thank you very much for this explanation, because you put it in such a way that these original questions of mine... Actually, if I knew that interpretation, maybe I wouldn't even ask them. And the second part, the second question is a little connected to what Senator Czerwiński said. Well, I would like to ask if this leading study, which is now envisaged for 10 years in the case of oncology, eliminates the possibility of introducing, let's say, another type or other subject of research. And the question is: will these topics, areas of interest be defined, I don't know, by the state, will they apply with their ideas some scientific institutions? Well, as a result, access to such a programme will be limited by financial possibilities. Do I understand that for 10 years nothing else that could be equally useful will come here? I don't know, I'm philosophizing, but for example. some kind of healthy food, climate change issues or some technological solution. What's it gonna look like? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u205	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Thank you so much for asking. To be precise, the first virtual research institute would be dedicated to life sciences, with a particular focus on on oncology, i.e. there may also be topics in this area. However, the creation of a virtual research institute today does not mean that another virtual research institute cannot be set up in the near future, but the condition for it is to provide the fund with adequate resources, i.e. to create a second iron capital, so as to avoid the mechanism I mentioned earlier, to fall into the trap that we will run a lot of institutes and resources to maintain teams will decrease, and then their efficiency will naturally fall. So that it will depend on how much the existing fund in BGK will be able to be powered, then directly, because then there will be no need to carry out this operation which we have done now, i.e. the statutory fund first and then the fund, only directly the funds will be transferred to the Polish Science Fund. If there are any budget surpluses, then the Minister of Finance, as it was. in November, it can adjust the budget and fund such a fund. Then we'll have a ready instrument to launch another virtual research institute very quickly. The senator pointed out a very important thing when talking about these ideas. There is indeed a different mechanism here than in our agencies, which so far support entrepreneurs in the grant system. There it is, you can say, a kind of free market for ideas, i.e. entrepreneurs come with different ideas and they evaluate excellence, the quality of these ideas, but they do not have to create any coordinated or compact policy. Here the mechanism is reversed, it is the contracting authority, if I may say so, the state, says: we have this type of problem, we cannot deal with this problem, it cannot be solved without the support of science and therefore we are looking for scientists who will report their ideas on this subject. So there's this creative element that scientists can be from different fields. Remember, for example. In the case of oncology, these may be not only active particles, but also medical devices. Yes? So the goal is one. The fight against cancer. The methods they offer us are already in the decision of the research teams.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u207	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal, there's something about a fellow secretary who doesn't see this side... [[No, no, the senator was saved before recess.]] Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I return to the question that I asked in part during the committee meeting, without denying both now and during the committee meeting all that relates to the purpose and even financing, etc. My question is this: don't you see any legal possibilities for the minister to carry out any of the goals and tasks that you have outlined here, any of the NCBR or NCN units? Isn't there any legal opportunity to achieve and achieve the goals that the Minister has spoken of here? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Dardziński: Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u209	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u210	Mr. Senator, this is a matter of another philosophy. I mean, the fund should by nature be in the bank, so this fund is built in the bank. That's for example. doesn't mean that... maybe at some virtual research institute, although it seems unlikely to me because of the nature of these institutions... I don't know, maybe the NCN will enter the competition to act as the manager of these measures. It's possible. But then he'd have to have extra activities... Firstly, it would have to be amended and there would have to be a record that this type of action can take, so as if we were starting to distract the attention and methods of operation of this organisation, and secondly, it would have to build competence for management, e.g. related to the commercialisation of research, which is one of the objectives, because, as we said, the effect of this research is to be the technologies which will then be implemented, will be commercialised. Of course, it is not that this fund covers all the costs involved. You're going to say 500 million on issues... Where's the clinical trial? Where are the next rounds of clinical trials? This should be done by institutions such as: Medical Research Agency. And that's the system. We bring to a certain maturity something that has great potential, but already the whole element of implementation is located and is financed in another agency. This is the chain of agencies you mentioned, Senator Wind, or the chain of agencies and institutions. And the NCN would have had to do something that he wasn't called for or didn't want to do. It would probably be closer in the case of the National Centre for Research and Development, but it has so many of its own tasks that operating this mechanism would require it to set up an additional team, etc., etc., etc., etc. And the fund itself, by its nature, could not have been created on such a basis by one of these agencies. We can't give any of the agencies a ten-year budget forward. No budget... They settle in annual mode. They report to us on an annual basis how much money they spend. And that's why this perspective is usually limited to 2 or 3 years, because in such a period it can still be planned. Remember, these aren't very many bands. It seems like it's, like I said, about 10 teams. And especially in the case of medical sciences, as we know, it is sometimes not a matter of a large number of scientists, it is a matter of have some outstanding scientists who are able to revolutionize medical research later. And this is the stream that flows to the outstanding, the best. Both the CNN and the NCBR operate more widely, if I may say so. So I wouldn't recommend... I mean, the fund mechanism is impossible to apply at all, management maybe, but if someone asked me, I wouldn't recommend this mechanism for these agencies. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u211	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u212	As I understand your statement, Minister, I also understand that from a legal point of view it is possible to create a legal product that will be implemented by the NCBR, suppose, as the Minister points out. In view of the objectives, you believe that the functioning of the fund implemented by BGK will be a better option.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u213	More specifically, if the High Senate agrees to pass the bill and the President signs it, it is not excluded that one of these agencies can become a manager, or operator. But there's no way to put that fund in one of those agencies. He should be at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. And it's like that fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u214	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Dardziński: Thank you very much for all your comments, for all your questions, and especially for the rapporteurs for their cooperation. Thank you kindly.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I inform you that Senator Jerzy Czerwiński has tabled an amendment. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1126, and the report of the Commission In print No 1126 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Piotr Wacha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, it is the third, I would say, special law, in the sense that it protects us as a country and, above all, those affected by the possible unconventional exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union from the consequences of this exit, which would be severe. This law has a relatively narrow scope. It concerns the recognition of professional qualifications for the exercise of regulated professions and the taking up or pursuit of regulated activities. So that we have already talked about this today and discussed the laws on computerization, the various social issues related to residence, health protection, the validity of driving licences, and this law concerns the possibility of exercising regulated professions on the basis of the qualifications acquired in the United Kingdom, acquired in the European Union countries by the citizens of the United Kingdom, as well as other specific issues relating precisely to the recognition of qualifications for the profession. More specifically, the Act also deals with the provision of cross-border services by citizens of the United Kingdom, as well as with European Professional Cards issued to citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families. In its essential decisions, I would say, the Act maintains the power issued before the date of entry into force of the Act on recognition in the Republic of Poland of professional qualifications for the pursuit of a regulated profession or for the taking up or pursuit of regulated activities acquired in the United Kingdom. Therefore, the qualifications obtained before the date of the non-contractual brexite would remain valid. In the same way, decisions on qualifications issued in the European Union to citizens of the United Kingdom who wish to continue to pursue their profession within the Union shall remain valid. The Act lays down the rules for the conclusion of pending and unfinished proceedings in these cases. It terminates decisions issued before the date of entry into force of the Act on the recognition of professional qualifications of service providers of which one of the parties is a citizen of the United Kingdom shall terminate the professional cards issued before the date of entry into force of the Act issued to citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families, as well as allow for the last issue. Until 31 December 2021, citizens of Member States, including Poles, have applied for recognition of professional qualifications for the regulated profession they have acquired but have not applied for until now. So that we can say that in this respect the law is balanced and reasonably recognises acquired qualifications and rights, it does not go too far. It seems like a good step in terms of facilitating the lives of people who perform on the basis of acquired and confirmed qualifications... But also proven, because the point is that there was actually no objection to them. What follows is just a violent, rapid and unconventional formal change. That's why it's a continuation. The fact that European Professional Cards are extinguished is clear because British citizens cannot exercise professional cards issued to citizens of European Union countries. This is unfortunately necessary, but also understandable. So that during the committee meeting we had no doubt that this was a right regulation. I will also say, by the way, that we have just received a message that Prime Minister Theresa May is on her way to the European Council, which starts tonight, will be held today and tomorrow. Perhaps, as a result of this and possible proceedings by the House of Commons in the United Kingdom, the question of whether these laws will be consumed will be clarified in some way. Because the laws we're talking about And it's the same here. They shall enter into force on the date on which the uncontracting brexit, the United Kingdom, leaves the European Union without agreement. If she left the European Union in accordance with the agreement, these are the things that we talked about today, among others. the details of this law would be regulated in the contract. The Commission has unanimously voted in favour of the law and I believe that this is a reasonable, prudent position. This is actually adopted at the latest, as possible, but there is no surprise, because the issue of proceeding and progress in these negotiations is still a hot issue, it was difficult to predict exactly and in detail when, at which point such laws should have been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u216	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u217	Mr President, the Senator rapporteur has recognised this bill... I mean, that's what I thought, I'm sorry, I took this bill as a step of despair towards an agreementless brexite. But it is not that the United Kingdom, even in this extreme, negative scenario for all, intends to break up as if all the arrangements with the European Union. That's not what he says. It's just those things that were... Are you sure about those that were the subject of the referendum or those that stood in the course of the referendum, namely the excessive legislation of the European Union, social policy issues, the power of the Court... of the Court? Court of the European Union, yes. In many cases, the United Kingdom does not intend to break up, at least that is the case... Perhaps the recognition of titles will be the same. I think that even before Britain entered the European Union, a number of these provisions were in force. [[I would say this: if I understand the question correctly...]] I'm sorry. I also have a question about the Schengen area, about the most important powers. Will it be as if it were in full scope, or will it be limited?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u218	Great Britain is not in this zone. That's the first thing. There are border controls in place, so that we are not dealing with this. It's actually a matter of recognition. If I understand the question correctly, then I would say this: this law is independent of the will of the British people, because this is our law that talks about how we recognise British qualifications and qualifications acquired in other countries of the European Union, if those who acquired them are British. This has nothing to do with British decisions. If we'd made a bill that offended the British, it might not have been mutual, but that's another thing. That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u219	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Science and Higher Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piotr Dardziński like to speak on this matter? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Dardziński: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would just like to add that, as the rapporteur said, this law concerns the issue of recognition of eligibility obtained in the United Kingdom not only by Poles, but also by citizens of the European Union after the possible unconventional exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union. As has already been mentioned, it is as if it responds to the ever-changing situation associated with Brexit. It is very beneficial for Polish citizens who have obtained professional qualifications in the United Kingdom and are either in the process of confirming these qualifications in Poland or would like to complete their vocational courses within the next 3 years and obtain confirmation of these qualifications in Poland. This solution is very beneficial for Polish citizens. We are counting on the British side's reciprocity after the UK's decision to leave the European Union is made. Without this regulation, all these qualifications would be treated as qualifications obtained in third countries and would undergo a much more complex procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u221	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwił wants to ask you a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, you've already begun to answer a little of the question I was about to ask. As I understand it, the Act deals with regulated professions, namely doctors, dentists, midwives, nurses, architects, veterinarians and pharmacists, if I remember the list from Directive 2005/36. If we ask how many such professionals, British people practice in Poland, it will probably turn out that it is a law, I do not want to exaggerate, concerning several, dozens, maybe 20 people who are in Poland and are performing these professions. So in practice, as the Minister said, we really hope that it will involve thousands of single-name professionals who are Poles and who work in the UK. Right? I see you're nodding your head. And here's my question. In addition to the hope that the British... There's not gonna be a vending machine here, as you just said. So far there has been automatic recognition of these qualifications, but now it will not be done with a vending machine. Do we have more than hope that the British will apply such reciprocity to Poles who work in the Islands? Because, as I understand it, the intention to adopt this law is to protect Poles in the Islands, not to treat those 20 British professionals who work in Poland properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u223	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Yes, it is a law that meets, above all, the needs of Poles who have obtained professional qualifications. And here's a small point about the fact that this law does not concern the recognition of educational outcomes, i.e. it does not concern, for example. recognition of diplomas for the completion of higher education institutions. It concerns the recognition of professional qualifications which are of such a nature that they are as if outside higher education. Can we count on reciprocity? Great Britain? Depends. That is why we have given a long, three-year transitional period to regulate those issues which will either be regulated at EU level in relations with the United Kingdom or will be regulated, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the law, in an intergovernmental agreement. Since it is a sovereign decision of the United Kingdom, our only guarantee is that this law gives these preferences to Polish citizens and citizens of the European Union who have obtained qualifications in the United Kingdom, but does not give these preferences concerning automatic recognition of British citizens. Thus, after a tough brexite, citizens of the United Kingdom who want to gain recognition of professional qualifications in Poland will be treated as citizens from third countries. But in fact, here this imbalance is very clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u225	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u226	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I don't think we fully understand each other. My question is just so... Because the answer to you is that we can hope that there will be some time and so on... My question is: were there any arrangements between Poland and Great Britain that if we make such a move, they would make a similar one at home? Because if they do not do it, regardless of how this unconventional brexit will run, Poles in the Islands will lose their right to pursue their profession in the case of all the professions I mentioned. I'm asking if we know anything about the fact that in the UK, for example, it's going on. similar to our mirrored legislative process. Because it is really necessary for Poles in the Isles who are performing these professions I mentioned to them to be able to continue doing them in the UK. Because if they don't, they're gonna get into this process of individualizing their qualifications, which might end well for them, and I think that in many cases, yes, but there is no guarantee. Right? So my question is simply this: does the government know anything about the same process going on on on the other side of the channel in relation to Poles performing the professions we are talking about in this act?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u227	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As mentioned before and as it was mentioned in relation to other laws on brexitu, the nature of these laws is quite specific. They're being prepared just in case. Today, we are in a situation where we are not able to start such a conversation with our UK partners, nor are we able to resolve it with our UK partners. Although I am not able to say in an absolute way whether such work is taking place in the British Parliament, it is because today the United Kingdom is in a situation in which it does not know what rules it will be able to speak out of the European Union. The senator's question is, as if it were a question of a situation where the United Kingdom already knows what the model of this option will be and is preparing for this option. We don't know that there are any conversations in this area in case of a tough brexite, because there's no decision. About whether or not this tough brexit is gonna be there. This state of uncertainty is causing... [[But he's on our side.]] This state of uncertainty makes me unable to answer this question unambiguously. However, this law may not enter into force if the United Kingdom withdraws from the Union in a manner compatible with the Treaties. So we're preparing for a possibility that is naturally an alternative. By putting the United Kingdom's Treaty address first, we are preparing for a different option so that at least our citizens are not harmed by... [[We're talking about British citizens...]] No, no. We are talking about citizens of Poland and citizens of the European Union who have obtained professional qualifications in the United Kingdom. [[This law speaks of those who practice in Poland.]] In the case of those who practice in Poland and are British citizens, if they are already qualified, the case is settled, because then there is no question... However, as far as those who have already started the recognition procedure are concerned, she is extinguished from the vending machine and no longer has this procedure. And they're treated as third countries... [[...not about the Poles.]] No. This law is much more about Poles and citizens of the European Union. She's... Otherwise, I'll explain again. If today... Mr Senator, if I may... Today, in a situation where the United Kingdom is a member of the European Union, whether a UK citizen arrives in Poland or a citizen of any other European Union country, including Poland, it is undergoing a summary procedure for recognition of qualifications. And now the question is: what happens after day x if the United Kingdom leaves the EU without agreement? Our answer is this: all proceedings initiated by the citizens of the United Kingdom are extinguished and the automatic machine begins to be considered as recognition procedures for third-country nationals. All proceedings initiated by citizens of the European Union, with the exception of the United Kingdom, including Poles, are continued for 42 months, and for 3 years any citizen of the European Union, including of course Poles, will be able to start a simplified procedure for recognition of qualifications. With regard to what the senator said at the beginning about the number of these people, it is true that we will reduce by far the smaller number of British people easier to obtain these qualifications in Poland. This law is intended primarily to help Poles who would like to obtain these qualifications in a simplified manner. And that's why there's this three-year transition period.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u229	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Short, technical question. The entire bill, like the other two, i.e. three of these Brexit laws, enters into force on the day of the hard Brexit. At the same time, the minister responsible is to publish the date of that day... but in that case he can only publish it after that day, not before. Question is, doesn't that bother you with any of these laws? 'Cause if it's just a statement of fact, well, no, but if it's still connected to something else, and it's important that somebody knows about it before, then maybe it would take this one article. Here, in this law, art. To be implemented in advance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Indeed, the mechanism is enshrined in all laws that the Minister responsible for European Affairs announces the date on which the United Kingdom leaves the European Union without agreement. The recommendation of both seym and senate legislators was such as to describe these mechanisms, and here we rely on their competence, on their integrity, believing that these regulations are properly ordered in this rather unstable state.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u232	Thank you very much. I don't see anyone asking anymore. Good. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Dardziński: Thank you very much, Mrs Marshal.]] Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Law on the Rules of Conduct of Certain Financial Market Entities following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1127 and the report of the Commission In print No 1127 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u233	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on the fourth law already related to the possible uncontractual exit of the United Kingdom from the Union, i.e. the so-called. A hard brexite. This is a law on the rules of operation of certain financial market entities following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without the conclusion of an agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, as the law itself indicates, this is a regulation that protects the interests of clients of financial institutions in connection with the potential appearance of the UK from the European Union without the conclusion of a contract. In fact, it's collateral. As explained here earlier in the case of previous laws, it may apply, but it does not have to. It may happen that the bill will never enter into force if such an unconventional appearance of the United Kingdom does not take place. As regards the matter of the law, it covers the activities of certain financial institutions from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Gibraltar, which are currently active in the territory of the Republic of Poland on the basis of the so-called. EU passport. In the case of a hard brixit, these institutions will lose the possibility of carrying out cross-border activities on the territory of the Republic of Poland, which will result in their being recognised as institutions from a third country. In particular, the Act provides that contracts concluded before the date of the hard brexitu may continue to be carried out. This applies to credit agreements, insurance contracts, outsourcing contracts to the bank and cooperative credit and savings banks, contracts for the provision of... with users of payment services, reinsurance contracts and brokerage activities. These agreements, as laid down in the Act, can be implemented by UK entities, but no longer than for a period of 12 or 24 months after the transfer of the portfolio of such contracts or an appropriate authorisation to carry out activities in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The length of transitional periods depends on the nature of the contracts concluded. Longer transitional periods have been adopted for credit contracts, life insurance contracts, reinsurance contracts and outsourcing contracts. As regards the drafting of this law, it is somewhat in line with the recommendations of the European Commission, which have been expressed in working contacts and officially published communications, as well as with the recommendations of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. Only minimum emergency measures should be adopted in the European Commission's assessment, should be temporary and should not duplicate the benefits of membership of the European Union. The proposed law also regulates supervisory issues by conferring powers on the supervisory authority vis-à-vis entities from another Member State of the European Union to the Financial Supervision Commission. In this respect, it is proposed to maintain the rules on supervision of UK financial institutions prior to its withdrawal from the European Union. And now this: given the high probability There is no certainty, but there is such a probability. The committee requests that the United Kingdom withdraw from the European Union without agreement without amendment. That's the committee's position. As for the committee meeting, the bill did not raise any controversy. As I mentioned earlier, it was unanimously accepted by the members of the committee. During the committee meeting, almost no one spoke. In fact, the only person who took the floor was a representative of the Polish Insurance Association, who pointed out that this is a solution that protects the interests of insurance clients, and supported this submission as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Minister Piotr Nowak, Deputy Minister of Finance, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1131, and the report of the Commission In print No 1131 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! The Act amending the Law on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws aims to fully implement the European Union Directive on the exchange of tax information. This concerns the exchange of information on residents and large companies that can avoid paying taxes, companies that operate in many countries and whose turnover exceeds EUR 750 million. The Legislative Office submitted 7 comments to this law. The Commission has adopted one of these comments, the first remark I will discuss in detail. The point is that the list of countries with which this tax information will be exchanged... It will, of course, take place on the basis of agreements that will be concluded. There was a record that the list of these countries would be published on the BIP website of the Minister of Finance. There was a discussion between the Ministry of Finance and the Senate Legislative Office on the clarification of these provisions. Our Senate legislature argued that this exchange of information would not only require the conclusion of a contract, but also the publication of it in the BIP. The Ministry had a slightly different opinion. The fact that this publication in BIP is only of an informative nature. Mr Bierecki took over this proposal for an amendment by the Legislative Bureau to clarify this. Of course, this exchange of information takes place with those countries with which we will sign the agreement, and this list on the BIP website will only be purely informative. There will be no interpretation that this publication in the BIP must be... The other proposals were not recognised by the committee. In addition, the Senators Bierecki, Frost and Romanchuk have tabled amendments to this law. One amendment clarifies the understanding of the concept of "share', as interpreted by the Financial Supervision Committee, and the second amendment extends the deadline until 1 September for submitting a tax residence statement to account holders. Because there was this 3-month gap, if I'm not mistaken... In line with the European Commission's findings, financial institutions will have to collect such information. Financial institutions have requested an extension of this deadline. This amendment, the second amendment concerned this. Three amendments were therefore accepted. They're a little bit different in the report from the legislator. In any event, such 3 substantive amendments were examined at the committee meeting and adopted unanimously, unanimously, so that the act received a favourable opinion from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Does anyone want to ask that question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Minister Filip Świtała is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Law on Measurements. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1130 and the report of the committee In print No 1130 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! The Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and the Law on Measurements is another act aimed at sealing the tax system, in particular concerning the collection of VAT. The law deals with a number of issues, but the most important issue is the introduction of an obligation to have cash registers registering sales and, consequently, to exempt VAT from sales through these online cash registers. You know how that money works today. They're like two models. One is a model where you store receipts. I think he's already, as far as I know, very rarely used. And the second model is that these transactions are stored electronically. The Ministry proposes, following the spirit of progress, but also that it be possible to verify on an ongoing basis whether or not someone is cheating, not selling goods without putting them on the register, so that all such transactions are recorded electronically and in real time data about them are sent to a special IT system, which will be run by the National Tax Administration. The Legislative Office has not prepared an opinion in writing on this law. There were two oral remarks. One point concerned technical issues, how certain technical requirements should be interpreted in this law. The legislator explained with the Minister what was meant by the fact that... The point is to clarify the concept of technical requirements not in terms of equipment, but of a certain IT system or programme that will transmit data from transactions from the tax register via the internet to the database created by the National Tax Administration. After clarification, the representative of our Legislative Office did not formulate any specific proposal for an amendment. The law was, of course, adopted unanimously, supported unanimously by all the members of the committee. We request that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u238	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u239	Two questions, Senator rapporteur. First. I do not know the date of entry into force of the Act, but will all entities be technically prepared to provide this information online? And the other. You mentioned sealing the consent. But the fact that it's going to be online means obviously there's no time to do different things. You also mentioned that this would prevent sales outside the VAT system. Well, then the cameras would have to be visible and connected to the telecast. Is that what I'm saying? Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u240	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u241	As far as question number two is concerned, yes. If someone doesn't put something on the money, it's obviously hard for this online money to send data because, like you said, you'd need cameras or somebody who checks or even makes some kind of provocation, I'd say. And that's what happens, and that's what the National Tax Administration does. However, the point here is that there will be an opportunity to analyze the data. And if we see that... Well, there are certain algorithms already used by the National Tax Administration today; they generally include VAT, among others. VAT, but not only, also excise. It is checked whether at a given location or at the turnover data there is any deviation in sales, and then a targeted control can be carried out. If we see that there are two entities in a similar location and one has a large turnover and the other has a smaller one, then the question is whether it is necessary to look at this entity. Of course, if someone doesn't get something, they don't have it, but that difference gives some information. I would like to say one more thing. Of course, this information will only concern transactions, there will be no customer personal data here, but you will be able to capture some trends, see why there are deviations if one month was the same and the other. There are certain models... All this sealing of the tax system, which has been implemented by the Ministry of Finance for many months or for several years, among others. These IT instruments are very heavily used for data processing. And it will be one of those instruments that will probably help the Ministry of Finance to be effective or more effective. Of course, if anyone wants to cheat, they'll always cheat, but it'll be one of the tools that will help us fight those people who don't make deals. That's one thing. Your first question referred to the date of entry into force of the law. The Act shall enter into force on 1 May 2019 in accordance with the provisions of the Act, but that does not mean that all cash will be suddenly exchanged by that date. There are different dates for exchanging these cashiers. I would have to find it in this bill, but such a general term is until 2022, until 31 December 2022. And it will be done successively. You know, the money's used up, they have to have specific approvals, etc., etc. However, there are sensitive industries such as: the fuel industry, which will have to implement these online cash registers again this year. But this applies to such industries that are very, very sensitive, in which there is a high probability... Well, there's a lot of money and a lot of turnover. And I'm sure that's not a problem. But in general, taxpayers who will be able to Do they have to? I'm gonna change the money... And if someone doesn't... Well, that's gonna be all the taxpayers. They're gonna be able to put that money on the table. But as I say, it's going to be evolutionary. So quickly only in the case of these selected industries. I'm sure it's gonna be the fuel industry... From memory, I'm not going to mention which industries it is yet, I'd have to look into the bill. But such a limit date is 31 December 2022.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u242	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[I've got another one.]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u243	You mentioned an important problem that had already occurred in the event of the introduction of cash registers in the first place. I think it was mostly about kiosks whose number was, I remember, twenty-two thousand. It created a huge demand. So height... Sometimes it was even impossible to carry out such orders, orders. And at the same time it was accompanied by an increase in costs, because the price was rising as demand went up. My question is whether it's what's obvious that it's costing You can count it... Didn't the government provide for the possibility to apply other reliefs, such as taxes, especially for small entities that are not able to hide it in costs? Well, at a cost of only a dozen, even 15% may be hidden in the case of small entities. Was there a question of the possibility of applying other reliefs, e.g. spread out over a longer period of time of this costing? Was such a solution taken into account?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u244	This was not discussed at the committee meeting. But, well, let's not exaggerate that fiscal money is some gigantic cost that, I don't know, blows up the business. [[Well, in the kiosks...]] It's not, in my opinion, that sort of thing... But that's my subjective opinion. This was not discussed. Anyone who carries out an economic activity and exceeds certain income or form of settlement... well, it has to be recorded. Fiscal money is today a tool for doing business. We can't get away from this. And so far, no one's come up with any other forms. Of course, if someone issues invoices, then they don't have to have the money. Except with those invoices on mass transactions... That's what fiscal money's for.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u245	Good. Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Minister, do you wish to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any questions? [[Yes.]] Minister, if you'll excuse me, there will be questions for you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u246	Thank you. Minister, the same question I asked the Senator, who, of course, could not, for understandable reasons, have the same knowledge as you. But the question is whether we are able to satisfy with this 2022 new technique all those points of economic activity that carry out fiscal transactions, of course those where VAT is required to register, because it is not in all of them. It's, I think, hundreds of... How many points are there? And wouldn't there be a narrow throat in the form of an impossibility to deliver in less than two months? Because in May the law is to enter into less than 3 years, because by 2022.. And question two. Although technology is cheaper, didn't the government provide for the possibility to compensate for the introduction of this new technology, a new technical infrastructure other than costing? Because counting costs is obvious, you don't even need to talk about it when it comes to something that goes into the equipment. Especially since the government will benefit from what we are talking about. I mean. government, us, society... The question, then, is whether or not to spread out this effort, Minister, between consumers or buyers of these devices and the society represented by the government, although not always this government represents the whole society.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u247	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u248	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator, thank you for your questions. The first question concerns the saturation of the market with cash, whether or not the so-called. Narrow throat. The situation is this way. Work on this bill lasted a long time, we started it last year. We also negotiated with the producers of these cash registers to prepare the market for this exchange so that it could happen. Of course, it's not like it's gonna happen at the same time. This will be done gradually. Gradualness will also consist in the fact that we predict that in those industries which we do not regard as sensitive industries, we will allow the existing cash registers to be used for the term of their usual technical usage. So this period is going to be a little longer. This date, which Mr. Senator mentioned here, on December 31, 2022, is the date that we stop selling cash... I mean, that's when the electronic cash register loses its approvals, and since then it's not gonna be possible to sell them. We already know. From the market That producers have switched to the production of online cash registers, that approvals for these old types of cash registers are no longer obtained and preparatory work is underway to obtain the approval of a new type. This will not result in such a sudden surge in demand for these online cash registers. That's one thing. Secondly, we predicted that some of the money, especially for small businesses, would be cash... We call them virtual cash. It will be online cash, but in the form of software. We will not have to bear the special costs of acquiring the device, only the costs of acquiring the software or... We will certainly present in the implementing regulation the conditions that this software should fulfil. We believe that the cost of purchasing this software can be installed on a mobile phone, which will be almost irrelevant to any, even very small, business. We think it's gonna be a solution that's gonna cause that there's not gonna be this big and sudden increase in demand for this money. As far as the industries that you mentioned here are concerned, the senator will have to... We have predicted that some industries will have to make mandatory use of this new system. We also predicted a gradual, gradual entry into this new system. So that, in the first place, from 1 January 2020, the fuel industry, and later from 1 July 2020, the catering industry, and from 1 January 2021, e.g. The medical industry. And the thing is... we've got assurance that these cash will be available. As far as reliefs are concerned, apart from the fact that the cost of income, which is obvious, will be... There will also be a deduction of VAT of PLN 700 for the purchase of such cash. In addition, we have anticipated the possibility that the Minister of Finance will issue a regulation... If we see that there are market abuse, that prices have risen, we will be able to interfere and we will be able to raise this amount of 700 PLN. By means of such a refund, we will compensate for this by increasing the VAT deduction. We will treat this 700 PLN as a tax charged, which the taxpayer did not actually pay... [[I have a question for you. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u249	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u250	It's a good thing the government's focused on that. I wish you success. There are accusations of a lack of this kind of politics in previous years, and today I read in the newspaper a remarkable thing: last year there was a criminal group - 15 people, 150 companies and 13 million on the basis of forged invoices. This means that the VAT and JPK invoices system, i.e. those uniform control files, does not work, because on the one hand, there is a kind of impudence here, but on the other hand, the fact that it was detected, indicates that the system is still broken.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u251	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u252	Thank you. That's the question. A little outside the scope of this bill, but of course I'll answer. It's like the system's working because it's what makes it possible to detect these kinds of things. That's one thing. Secondly, we're detecting them much faster now thanks to the systems we've put in place. There are a number of systems that allow the detection of such criminal activity not only of the JPK reported monthly, which was introduced in 2016, but also of other systems, e.g. the STIR system. We have algorithms that we're looking at these data that we're collecting, and so we can see some anomalies earlier, and we're able to react faster and better. I highly recommend... e.g. The CBA website shows every now and then who has been arrested, what amounts have been saved. This is the result of law enforcement cooperation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u253	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law on the rules for determining the order of appointment of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019.2024. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1129, and the reports of the Commission in print no. 1129 A and 1129 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u254	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union a report on the report adopted by the Sejm on 15 March this year. Act on the rules for determining the order of filling the seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019. 2024. Ladies and gentlemen, to begin with, a few words about the purpose and subject matter of the law. As you know, the purpose of the Act is to determine how the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament, which will remain after the elections scheduled for 26 May 2019 if the United Kingdom does not leave the European Union before that date. As you know, looking at the European political scene, this is highly likely because the Brexit process is extending and the recent communications were such that the United Kingdom requested an extension of the final conclusions on the rules for Britain's departure from the European Union by June. This situation of legal and political uncertainty must therefore be regulated in some way. I do not hide that this is a rather unique situation, such without precedent from the legal side. As we know, European law has already adopted such regulations, which assume that Brexit has taken place, i.e. an appropriate allocation of British mandates has been made in such a way that some of these mandates have been cancelled and some have been allocated pro rata among other Member States. And here we are dealing with the situation that Poland would have one additional mandate. As you know, the electoral ordination of the European Parliament is particularly complicated. This division of tickets is made so that first it's determined who got... I mean. The law indicates that it will be the Member with the smallest number of votes of this electoral committee, who has received the 50th second electoral quantity determined in accordance with the D According to the current European regulations, Poland has 52 seats in the European Parliament. However, if the countries of the European Union agree to the British proposal, then, as I say, Poland will probably have 51 seats. The European Parliament so far has 751 Members. Like I said, the UK had 73 tickets. In detail, as I have already mentioned, I would like to say that the 27 places in the UK so far will be divided between the Member States and 46 will remain uninhabited, i.e. the European Parliament will have 705 Members. Ladies and gentlemen, this voting system is insanely complicated, and at this point I don't even feel up to discussing it in detail, and that was not the subject of the committee either. However, of course, the most exciting aspect is the status of this Member, who can be elected, but later his mandate will be cancelled. The law also answers these questions. There are a number of legal doubts here. Yeah, well, terminology issues are questionable, too. The Act refers to a Member of the European Parliament who does not include a mandate. This may suggest that such a person will be an MEP, but he will not hold a mandate. It is therefore feared that this person, as a Member of the European Parliament, will be subject to a merger ban, will lose a national function and at the same time will not include a mandate in the European Parliament; as we know, this is happening automatically. I know that the representatives of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice in the Senate will make an amendment that is yet to be made, which is beyond any doubt to say that there will be no such automaticism here as regards this imprecise mandate. And basically, These are the most important aspects of this bill. There was no in-depth discussion at the committee meeting. There were representatives of the National Election Office. The bill was put to the vote. The Act was unanimously adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u255	Thank you very much, Senator. Right now, senators can... Oh, I'm sorry. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. As Senator Pęk presented the purpose of the bill, all I can say is that during the committee meeting there was no discussion about this law. The senators voted in such a way that no one voted against, one senator abstained and the rest voted in favour of the bill. On behalf of the committee, I request that the bill be adopted in accordance with the submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u257	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Who wants to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Which rapporteur? [[The senator's breaking up.]] Good. Please, Senator Rapporteur. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u258	I stand out for him because his imagination reaches the effects of the opposite role... as if he'd returned to the pre-election situation. What will happen to such a MEP who is simultaneously a national parliamentarian, which is particularly common in the PiS I mean, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... If so, what are the rules, i.e. Or through subsequent elections or automatisms? I do not believe in the latter, of course, because, as far as I know, the condition for gaining the status of a MEP is the resignation of a national parliamentarian. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u259	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u260	Mr. Senator, I just mentioned here that this doubt is the most serious in terms of this period of uncertainty. But I also look at these amendments, which I said would be tabled by us: until a mandate is made, all these provisions on the prohibition of joining the European Parliament with the positions and functions defined by law are not applicable to such a parliamentarian, i.e. the role of Member or Senator. Well, it can't be otherwise, because then we'd be dealing with total chaos and legal and political uncertainty. But more precisely, I think, this can be explained by the representatives of the National Election Office who are present here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u261	Are there any further questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No one's checking in. The Senate is attended by the head of the National Election Office, Minister Magdalena Pietrzak. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. No one signed up... [[Voice from the room: But the question...]] I already asked... Nobody's reported any questions... [[Another question for the National Election Commission...]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. There'll be a line, of course. Are there any questions for the representative of the election committee, the Minister? Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u262	I repeat the question of being a representative in the country, which includes not only the duties of Member, Senator, Mayor, President, because perhaps the councilman... What would it be like if these functions were combined with... Although it can't be done, for technical reasons, and for us and the constitutional reasons. What kind of situation would that be?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u263	The questions are for the Minister, so please come to the bleacher.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult for me to refer to this question by the senator, as well as to the context of the amendments that you referred to by the rapporteur, because I do not know them. May I remind you that the intention of the State Election Commission was... to present the proposal to the Marshal of the Sejm. We are currently investigating this content in the Senate... The intention was to determine before the election who among the Members, who among the elected Members... Because as soon as 52 elected candidates are elected, they will become Members of the European Parliament, but in accordance with the decision of the European Council... Because there is a reservation, i.e. it will be subject to suspension: if the United Kingdom is a member of the European Union at the start of its term of office, i.e. 2 July, then Poland will cover the current number of mandates. Since the ordination in this area is indeed quite complicated and the code did not foresee such a situation at all, we have tried to prevent this even before the elections. We want all candidates to be aware of how these mandates will be covered. The fact that the fifty-second Member will not be in office in our case is the result of the decision of the European Council. It states that until the UK's final speech, we will have the number of Members so far. With regard to the legal status of those elected in the elections to the European Parliament, in accordance with our rules, they really lose their current mandates, whether it's a Member's mandate or a Senator's or other mandates. By law, when they choose, they lose their seats. This is a very complicated situation. We talked about this at the Sejm Committee meetings. It is not the role of the State Election Commission to secure, so to speak, the existence of Members in the future. Our aim was to protect the country from a situation where it will not be known which of its Members would not be entitled to a mandate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u265	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Answer my opening question first. How many MEPs will we choose in the upcoming elections on May 26th? 51 or 52?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u267	We're gonna pick 52. According to the decision of the European Council, the number of Members elected to the European Parliament in the case of Polish is 52.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u268	Now we're gonna go over the subject. The allocation of mandates based on the number of votes shall be several times. I'm talking about the main ordination, and then I'm going to refer to this document. I'll show you where he's going. First, the votes cast on the various committees are added up. This is stage one. Committees which receive more than 5% shall take part in the follow-up procedure. Committees with fewer votes shall be voted out. Then you divide the tickets by the d-Hondta method, that's the second step. In other words, for individual committees, but, attention, on the scale of the country, i.e. the whole area of the Republic of Poland is one electoral district. So far, everything's still right, I mean. General ordainment and this document. Subsequently, the mandates of the committee concerned shall be divided into the respective district lists. The district letter is 13, as many as the districts, as the name suggests. No matter how it's done, it's shared. Note: this is important because the amount of seats received by the district list depends on the sum of the votes cast in the district committee and not on the individual candidate. At the end of the day, as part of how many tickets are given to the district list, the seats fall to individual candidates. Let's say there's two tickets in the district, so be it, number 12. Those two who got the most votes get their tickets. But note: within this circle. A. 2 (2) 2... I may quote it: once I have determined which election committee is the fifty-second figure, the CIC determines which of the Members The European Parliament has received the lowest number of votes on the list of the electoral committee. Absolutely, on the scale of the entire circle... [[The country.]] Come back. Not the whole county, but the whole country, which is the whole committee. And he just gets a ticket. And who should be taken away with a ticket? You should take the last one, the one who got the ticket from that district list with the smallest... It's about that quantity created in a special way. The question is, is this gap between the ordinary electoral code? That's what I'd call him. The normal, typical, and this law was intended, was it unintentional? 'Cause if it's unintentional, it's a problem, and if it's intentional, then why is it, and not... Ladies and gentlemen, it's not that hard, plain Excel can do it, spreadsheet. Why is there another system for assigning mandates to selected candidates... In fact, there is another system for assigning mandates and another system for taking seats away from the selected candidate. Have I made myself clear? Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u269	Yes, the senator has made himself clear, and there is indeed an explanation to be made. Namely, the problem is that in connection with this method, which is used, which is the greatest rest... This is not so obvious as in the case of the D-Hondt method that the latter Member will not be covered by the mandate. This is called the Alabama paradox, where once, when it was increased by 1 number of seats in the United States elections, it turned out that 8 seats had been allocated to it, and after the next round it turned out to be 7 seats. I'm not doing the math translation, but I have Director Lorentz here who knows all about it, and if the senator wishes, he can explain it in detail. However, the fact is that such a situation could have occurred. Therefore, using this method, we had to foresee some other method which would indicate which of the Members of this mandate would not be included. We didn't create a new rule, we just tried on the basis of what is currently functioning in the Code's rules, that is, art. 386 §6, which provides for the application of such a rule where it is impossible because of the absence of candidates who cannot be allocated a mandate in the event of expiry or loss of a mandate... Then the Marshal of the Sejm announces his priority to the mandate by announcing a candidate from another list of the same electoral committee who received the highest number of votes in the election, unless he was given a mandate. So that's the same rule. We just applied it to this particular, one and only situation. [[Excuse me, Minister...]] Okay... [[...Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u270	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u271	Allow me to disagree with the Minister because Once again, I'm translating another way of choosing, so let's call it, the last candidate, and another way of pointing out who loses their ticket. They could be two different people. I don't know if I'm making myself clear. [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but you have to formulate a question, because now it's an interpretation. It's for discussion...]] I'd like to... okay, I'm sorry. [[I'm asking for a further question, if I may.]] The question is simple. Why did you choose another way of losing, at least a temporary loss, a mandate by the latter, the fifty-second, elected candidate? It's incomprehensible to me, the more that you can count it both here and here. We're not adding anything here. I was just asking how many we chose. We choose 53, not 51, and add, we look to add. We're gonna pick 52, and we're gonna take it. So the method of taking should be the same as the method of giving allocation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u272	There you go, Minister. [[If it's okay... if you can't put it in writing, please explain it in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u273	Let's put it in writing... That is true, but there are no rules in our code that would foresee such a situation. Not at all. There wouldn't be a rule to apply to take that ticket. It's just that. But we will.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u274	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Thank you, ma'am. I inform you that the Minister, a representative of the National Election Office, has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Martynowski. Is the government representative... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Would you like to comment on Senator Martynowski's request? It was written in writing, so I suppose... [[Head of the National Election Office Magdalena Pietrzak: No.]] No? Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions will be asked to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the License of the Restructuring Advisor and some other laws. The text of the law is contained in print No 1122, and the report of the committee In print No 1122 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u275	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions prepared a report on the Law on the amendment of the Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 15 March 2019. The aim of the Act is to strengthen supervision of the profession of restructuring adviser by introducing, irrespective of the functioning of the supervision exercised by the courts and judges of Commissioners, the supervision of the Minister of Justice of the performance of activities falling within the competence of licensed restructuring advisers. The committee held its meeting on 19 March 2019. The Commission proposes amendments to the Act, which are contained in print No 1122 A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u276	Thank you, Senator. Currently, the senators can report from the place of the inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Mr. Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act was adopted on 15 March 2019 and passed to the Senate. The basic content of the submission is the introduction, irrespective of the supervision exercised by the supervisory authorities of the Minister of Justice over the activities of restructuring advisors, the definition of criteria for the designation of restructuring advisers to perform the functions of judicial supervisor, manager or syndicate in specific proceedings, the introduction of the title of qualified restructuring adviser, the separation of categories of entrepreneurs in respect of which, in the event of their bankruptcy or restructuring, their importance for the defence of the State, the security of the State or citizens, the national economy or the labour market, it will be necessary to designate qualified restructuring advisors and finally to introduce the right of redemption by the Treasury, i.e. the Minister for the defence of the national components of bankrupt assets for the conduct of defence and security of the State. I think these are the most important things. I'd be happy to answer your senators' questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u278	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit a request to a government representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the law on amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1132, and the report of the Commission In print No 1132 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the review of the law on amending the law on the circles of rural hostesses. The main objective of today's law, which has been in operation for several months, is to clarify the scope of the regulation of this law allowing for effective and effective participation in the circles of rural hosts to all persons who worked in circles operating under the provisions of the act on socio-professional farmers' organisations, regardless of the current administrative status of the area of activity of the circle, as well as to all persons wishing to operate in the circle, regardless of their permanent residence. This applies in particular to circles operating in the former villages, currently within the administrative boundaries of cities. The aim of the legislator is to enable all existing wheels Even when the villages in which they were originally established were included in the town limits Similarly, it is necessary to ensure that the wheels already set up under the new rules can continue to function if the town in which the wheel is registered has become a city. Given that there is a strong social need for civil society to be organised by rural hostels, including in areas formally located within the administrative boundaries of cities, but which are similar to rural areas, in this case those where the rural hostel circles have not yet functioned, the aim of the legislator is to enable the formation and operation of circles also in selected urban areas, in cities of up to 5 000 inhabitants, and in cities larger in the areas of their communities. In view of the fact that the rural hostel circles are an instrument of self-organization of the rural community providing generational connectivity, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of membership in the circles of people from the locality in which the circle operates without the need to demonstrate the fact of continuing permanent residence in the locality. The Act lays down rules for the liquidation of rural circles. In addition, the Act contains regulatory changes and clarifies the role of the government's representative for small and medium-sized enterprises, inter alia. to carry out coordinated actions to promote and support rural hostels' circles in the field of entrepreneurship development in rural areas. The draft law is not contrary to EU law. Following a meeting held on 19 March, the Commission requests the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u280	At present, the senators may submit questions to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? There are no calls. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. The meeting is attended by Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. The Minister doesn't report. So I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing your senators that no one has signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Act amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1124, and the report of the Commission In print No 1124 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 21 March, at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, we considered amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and some other laws. The Act concerns amendments to the rules governing, inter alia, powers of combatants, victims of war repression and post-war period, invalids of war, deportees and prisoners in the camps of the Soviet Union and Germany, the Third Reich. The Act concerns cash benefits, changes in the rates of the compensatory allowance, which according to the new Act would amount to PLN 850, and a lump sum of energy, the rate of which would be at the level of PLN 171 per month. It also covers one-off compensation as well as single-term and periodic monetary assistance. As far as monetary aid is concerned, these are the values that will depend on income. As far as compensation and flat-rate energy are concerned, they will be independent of income and will be granted to all persons who will be eligible. As far as this monetary aid is concerned, the monetary aid is one-off possible when the income per person is up to 150% minimum pension or up to 100% the lowest pension if there is more than one person in the household concerned and if it is a person who qualifies as an invalid, that income may be up to 300%. A one-off benefit may be granted once a year. The following benefits are periodic benefits which may be granted when the income per single person is up to 150% , and for persons running a common household • up to 100%. Periodic benefits may be granted for a period of 6 months, but not more than once a year. The next rights covered by this law are access to health care without queues, access to parking on the same terms as disabled people, and so-called. books of war invalids that will be created on the basis of previous certificates. With regard to the implementation of this law, the time of implementation of the law is foreseen for 14 days, this is not only the case for the article. Point 10 and Article 1 6 that regulate parking rules. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. During the committee session, Senator Rulewski tabled two amendments, but they were not accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u282	Thank you, Senator. Currently, the senators may submit questions to the Senator of the rapporteur. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by the government, the Members, the Sejm Committee and the Senate. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. [[Absent.]] There's no government representative in the courtroom, so I'm not asking if he wants to speak. So the senators can't ask questions. I'm opening a discussion. You have a voice, Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, it is a law which was intended to be significant, not to be comprehensive. As mentioned, as the rapporteur mentioned, this law covers many groups of combatants, except the basic one. The main advantage of this law is, of course, the observation of the material situation of war disabilities, for which a new supplement of PLN 850 is created. However, following the law on anti-communist opposition activists and persecuted persons, a number of benefits were raised, I would say more, equalized for miners, military service forced to employ in uranium mines, coal, also for other beneficiaries, social benefits, so dependent on income, whether for a single person or for a family member. Here is a set of 4 different benefits, of course depending on the situation and needs. Of course, this situation consists of income and health status or disability, i.e. the need for carts, hearing aids. Moreover, the Act grants these benefits, as in this Act on Persecuted Persons and the Opposition, in terms of access to health services and environmental help homes. However, this law also takes something away, but it is not a big issue, namely it takes away those opposition activists and those persecuted who have so far benefited from 2 titles, standing in the position that they can choose better from benefits. And the second thing, as the rapporteur Senator mentioned, The law regulates, but it must also be said that it reduces, these are benefits for widows and widowers who are not Polish citizens, widows and widowers of veterans who are not Polish citizens. It's just that it'll only apply to all those who make an effort. The benefits granted so far despite the difference in nationality will be maintained. This was the subject of my doubt, because I think that in this way we are violating European treaties which prohibit discrimination on grounds of nationality. The second amendment was less important because it merely clarified the issue, specified whether this benefit was a war disability or a war and military disability. In my opinion, this law is beneficial for many people who fought for independence, defended independence, became veterans, even during this fight, and deserves recognition, although if you examine its structure, it will turn out that the aid for these 280 and 300 000 people covered by the act is small, it is almost PLN 30 million. Easy conversion and we know that 100 PLN per year will be available for help, including, as I repeat, the guaranteed one for war disabilities. That is why I express my dissatisfaction, even a surprise, that during the work on other laws there was a raised issue of increasing benefits for the combatant environment, for this basic corps, that is, combatants who participated in wars, in uprisings, and here it turned out that the government does not have any offer. Although he stated at the committee meeting that there was more money in the budget for social assistance, first of all, as I say, it is conditional, it does not necessarily involve everyone and certainly does not cover all those who are trying, it is also regulated by income limits, and above all, as I have shown... The head of the Veterans' Office, Mr. Kasprzyk, has shown that this aid is increasing by about 30 million. It's true, but she may only grow on paper, because the Veterans' Office paid 40 million to the budget last year. So this is an apparent advantage, so to say, the budget stash is spent in the budget, and then at the end of the year it goes back to the budget. Well, I don't know what it's all about, and it's outrageous that it's such an operation hidden from Parliament's control. I myself asked the commission to transfer these funds to other combatants' needs, such opportunities exist. But unfortunately, the answer was silence or the answer was negative, that time had passed. And that's why I don't give you any credit for the head of the veteran office for Kasprzyk. What's more, I think he's doing operations that hide proper help from the combatants, camouflage her. I also think it wasn't the government's will to do this. Perhaps there has been a lack of initiative, perhaps even today it is missing, although six more months to create... By showing good will, I expect such an initiative to arise, however, and that the Office for Veterans in the government of good change, which I believe at the moment has a red card in terms of obtaining and spending funds, will improve its position, especially since the head, Minister Rafalska, finds tens, tens of billions for people like veterans, and even in a better life situation, for disabled people... sorry, yes, the disabled also, but mostly pensioners, families of many children. And veterans who live through their last days are always forgotten. And finally the good news, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, is that the Senate's initiative to issue combat cards to all veterans... veterans, excuse me, for all veterans. It will allow you to enjoy the privilege of parking, and it will allow you to act across or against road signs, which will facilitate communication with caring or health care units. It was an initiative of the Senate, which grew as a result of cooperation with the Ombudsman and with the strong support of the current Marshal Seweryński. At some point there was a belief that Europe should be given up on this issue, where, I would say, there is no privilege. However, it turned out, thanks to efforts and will, once again, your marshal... This will has been done. On behalf of the veterans, Mr. Marshal, I give you my thanks. I was also folded; this gesture was shown, this thumb up Sometimes some actions, even against Europe as a whole, can be effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u284	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Roads Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1125 and the report of the Commission In print No 1125 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on Infrastructure adopted by the Sejm on 15 March this year. Act amending the Public Road Act. The committee was sitting this morning. Minister Mikołaj Wild presented the objectives of this law, which is a continuation of the assumptions adopted in the Act of 8 December 2017, in which the collection of electronic tolls and tolls by highway was entrusted to the main inspector of road transport. The Minister noted that these fees could be entrusted to designated entities at the moment. With regard to this designated entity, the Minister responsible for transport will designate such an entity by means of a regulation. The legislator made 2 comments to this bill. They were rejected by the committee. During the discussion, Senator Pekkis spoke, who pointed out problems related to payments for viaTOLL devices, especially for motorcycles, and that there are very few places where such fees can be paid, and they are at stations of non-Polish oil companies. In addition, he reported a problem related to the contact with the helpline, where you can make a deal in Russian. Senator Florek criticized this law very strongly, he also raised reservations about the elimination of gates on the highway around Łódź. He also asked what the government was doing to reduce the number of accidents. And that's the whole discussion. She was quite emotional, by the way. Then the vote was taken and the committee adopted this law by a majority of votes and asked the Senate to adopt this law, to adopt a resolution. So much for the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u286	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Mikołaj Wild, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, attends the meeting. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Santa Wild: No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I declare a 45-minute... [[Voice from the room: Until 8:45 p.m.]] I declare adjournment until 8:45 p.m. Now I'm asking Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u287	3 messages. The first: a joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of applications submitted at the 70th Senate meeting to the Act on the promotion of scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund, Senate print No. 1120, will take place today, 21 March, immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room No. 217. Second: the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the examination of the requests submitted at today's meeting will take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room 182. The third communication: the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the requests submitted at today's meeting will take place 15 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 182. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 44 to 20 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u288	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 11 and 12 April 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: a statement that the candidates for the Supreme Court are left unattended. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution on this matter, which is contained in print No 1133. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Mr Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has prepared a report on the finding that the candidates for Supreme Court jurors have been left unattended. On 25 February 2019 at 4 p.m., the deadline for submitting candidates for the Supreme Court's first term of office was 4 p.m. It is a complementary choice that the Senate will carry out at the request of the first Supreme Court President. 28 applications were received by the Senate Office within this time limit. On the basis of the Supreme Court Act, the first President of the Supreme Court decided that there should be 36 jurors. She has now asked the Senate for a supplementary selection of 25 jurors. And the jury's term of office in accordance with Art. 126 §4 of the Law of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court will begin on the day of their taking the oath and end on 31 December 2021. The applications submitted after the expiry of the period or non-compliance with the formal requirements shall be left unattended. Restoring the deadline to submit candidates is impossible. Leaving the applications without further running is stated by the Senate by resolution. Candidates for jurors under the Supreme Court Act were allowed to report associations and other social and professional organisations registered under separate regulations, excluding political parties, as well as at least 100 citizens with active electoral rights. I kindly inform you that, at its meeting on 19 March 2019, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, in accordance with the provision of Article. 96b. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, she considered sent to the Senate of the Republic of Poland in connection with the recruitment of candidates for the Supreme Court's First term of office. I don't think I'm gonna read those... [[There's no need.]] I don't think that's necessary because that's not what we do. [[They're all in the report.]] At the same time, the committee presented the draft resolution of the Senate contained in Senate printing No 1133. It shall indicate the candidates whose applications will be left unattended on the grounds that they have been lodged after the expiry of the period. The notification of Mr Andrzej Siennicki The notification by Mr Adam Kosk and the notification by Mr Grzegorz Marcin Wiński did not meet the formal requirements. Commission pursuant to Article. 96b. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate request the adoption of a resolution contained in Senate printing No 1133. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u290	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions stating that the candidates for the Supreme Court are to be left without further delay. Print number 1133. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 83 were in favour, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution stating that it will leave without further application of the candidates for the Supreme Court jury. We return to the second agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project, signed in Katowice on 11 December 2018. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints No 1105 A and 1105 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 83 were in favour, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Baltic Pipe project signed in Katowice on 11 December 2018. We return to the examination of the third item on the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland on Legal Protection and Legal Assistance in Civil, Family and Criminal Matters, signed in Helsinki on 27 May 1980. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints No 1102 A and No 1102 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland on legal protection and legal assistance in civil, family and criminal matters signed in Helsinki on 27 May 1980. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate print No 1107 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Enforcement Penal Code and the Law on the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 1095 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We're giving you the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement and the Law on Criminal Procedure. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the law on amending the Real Estate Management Act. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 1092 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The Commission, at its meeting on 21 March 2019, examined the requests made on 20 March 2019 in the course of a debate on the Law amending the Real Estate Management Act. The High Senate shall accept the proposals set out in points 3, 4 and 6. That's the committee's recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u292	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Marek Borowski, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Waldemar Sługocki, Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Piotr Zientarski submitted their conclusions during the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u293	I would like to support my conclusions. These were the conclusions of the minority. The point is that this period, which has been reduced in transitional provisions by one year, should be reduced to six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u294	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to speak? I can't see. I can't hear anyone. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Adoption of Amendment 1 excludes voting on Amendments 2 and 3. Amendment 1 provides for a reduction from 3 years to 6 months in the period to request repayment of the expropriated property if, on the date of entry into force of the amendment, 20 years have elapsed since the date on which the decision to expropriate has become final or no more than 6 months have elapsed. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against, 23 against, 61 against. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 2 aims to reduce from 3 years to 6 months the period to request repayment of the expropriated property if, on the date of entry into force of the amendment, 20 years have elapsed since the date on which the decision to expropriate has become final or no more than 3 years have elapsed. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking for a vote, and in a moment... Please report the results. 82 senators voted against, 21 against, 61 against. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 3 aims to reduce from 3 years to 12 months the time limit for repayment of expropriated property if 20 years have elapsed since the date on which the expropriation decision became final on the date of entry into force of the amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 4 removes an unnecessary part of the rule. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 5 provides for a six-month period for the submission of a request for repayment of the expropriated property where, during the period from 1 January 1998 to the date of entry into force of the Act, this was not possible due to the lack of consent of all entitled persons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 22 for, 59 against. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 6 provides for a 12-month period for the submission of a request for repayment of the expropriated property where, during the period from 1 January 1998 to the date of entry into force of the Act, this was not possible due to the lack of consent of all entitled persons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] [[Voice out of the room: Seventh out.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are now voting on a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Real Estate Management Act. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Construction Law. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to the Senate Print No 1109 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Construction Law. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on the Establishment of the Baptism of Poland. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate print No 1115 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 64 votes against, 7 against and 13 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Establishment of the Baptism of Poland. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Act amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of this law without amendment of print No 1098 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities. There was a committee meeting at the adjournment... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But I ask you to remain calm. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print no. 1097 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Village, but in the military way.]] The Committee on Infrastructure, after considering the amendments tabled during the debate on 21 March 2019, recommends that the High Senate adopt 7 amendments: No 1, No 2, No 5, No 6, No 12, No 14 and No 15, and vote in favour of the bill, together with the amendments tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u296	Thank you very much, Senator. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] Senators Marek Martynowski, Mieczysław Augustyn and Zbigniew Cichoń also submitted their conclusions during the debate. Do you gentlemen want to speak again? I can't see, I can't hear the calls. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 complements the provision setting out the scope of the Act so that it is fully informed of its content. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 2 extends the scope of the Act to include all associations of public entities, not just associations formed to meet needs in the general interest, which are not of an industrial or commercial nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendments 3, 4, 8, 11 and 13 will be voted together. They limit the scope of the Act, assuming that the provisions of the Act do not apply to non-governmental organisations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Fourty-four senators voted against, 24 against, 60 against. [[Voting No 21]] Amendments 5 and 6 should be voted on together. They regulate the systematics of the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 82 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 7 aims to identify an alternative way of accessing the website, which the public entity will be obliged to provide under all circumstances, and indicates the possibility of providing another alternative means of access. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted against, 23 against, 60 against. [[Voting No 23]] The amendment was accepted... No, denied. Yes? Amendment 7 was rejected. Amendment 9 assumes that the possibility provided for in the Act of not ensuring digital accessibility is to apply to a non-governmental organisation where accessibility would involve excessive costs or difficulties for such an organisation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against, 26 votes against, 58 votes against. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 10 assumes that the option provided for in the Act not to ensure digital accessibility is to apply to a non-governmental organisation where accessibility would involve an excessive burden for such an organisation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 22 for, 59 against. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 12 requires the Minister to make available on the BIP website the technical conditions of publication and the structure of the accessibility declaration, not only once but also throughout the duration of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 14 eliminates the regulatory gap by completing the procedure for requesting an alternative way of accessing the website. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 15 makes it clear that an authorisation based on the new wording of the authorising provision is to be the basis for amending the Regulation temporarily maintained in force. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all senators were in favour. [[Voting No 28]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 82 votes against, no senator opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities. We are returning to the 11th agenda: the law amending the Road Transport Act. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 1099 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Road Transport Act. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes amendments to the Act, a minority of the committee asks for an amendment to the Act "Print No 1114 A." First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 eliminates doubts as to what is meant by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 2 ensures the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 3 aims to ensure that prizes can also be awarded for specific achievements or for all activities in the field of undertaking and developing initiatives to foster cooperation with the educational system operators referred to in Article. 2 of the Law of 14 December 2016 on the Law of Education. The amendment also ensures terminology consistency in the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] The minority proposal aims to maintain the institution of the supervisory board of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 23 votes against, 60 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 4 eliminates the blurryness of the provision temporarily maintained in force by the existing regulation insofar as the legislator makes it possible to amend such a regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 80 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 35]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Now the whole bill?]] The whole bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 65 votes against, 16 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law on mating, colours and hymn of the Republic of Poland and on public seals. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 464 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jan Rulewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 20 votes against, 60 against and 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has not adopted a resolution on the submission of a draft law to the Sejm and has therefore concluded its proceedings in this case. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the committee and obliged them to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 1064 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A total of 9 amendments were tabled during the second reading. The three joint committees recommend that all 9 amendments be adopted, with a total vote in the case of the sixth, seventh and ninth.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u298	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? During the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were tabled by Senators Zbigniew Cichoń and Jerzy Czerwiński. They don't want to. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text of the draft in print No 1064 X, followed by the adoption of the draft No 1064 S in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 seeks to prejudice that, in the case of a retired person or a pensioner, it is up to him to fulfil the criteria for receiving social assistance and not to benefit from such benefits. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 Senators voted, 74 votes against and 11 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 2 seeks to supplement the catalogue of persons to whom guarantees relating to the right to rent a social establishment should be applied for unemployed persons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 68 votes against and 17 abstentions. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 3 determines that where a matter relating to the emptying of a dwelling or temporary accommodation is referred to court proceedings, the court is required to apply the relevant provisions of the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and the amendment of the Civil Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 Senators voted, 76 votes against and 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 4 clarifies the regulations contained in the Act on the Housing of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 66 votes against and 18 abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 5 takes account of the consequences of introducing temporary accommodation institutions in administrative enforcement proceedings under the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on amending the Civil Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 85 senators voted, 64 votes against and 21 abstentions. [[Voting No 42]] Amendments 6, 7 and 9 should be voted on together. They extend the scope of the so-called amendments. specifications on the basis of which decisions requiring the clearance of mixed premises are issued. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 84 senators voted, 63 for, 9 against, 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 8 aims to ensure consistency of regulations for officers of all uniformed services. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 65 votes against and 20 abstentions. [[Voting No 44]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Zbigniew Cichonia to represent the Senate in further work on this project. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 63 votes against and 21 abstentions. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to agenda item 17: the law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of the law without amendment of the Senate print No 1128 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the act on supporting scientific activity from the Polish Science Fund. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 1120 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Wiatr, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u299	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance after a joint meeting invites the High Senate to accept the amendment tabled during the plenary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u300	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Wacha, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I maintain my argument for rejecting the law, which I presented quite extensively on behalf of the minorities during the plenary session.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u302	Thank you, Senator. Does Senator Jerzy Czerwiński still want to speak? [[No.]] Thank you, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on this amendment will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 23 votes against, 61 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we proceed to vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 4 votes against, 78 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 48]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the law. The amendment corrects the mistake in the name of the Institute of Research Network Łukasiewicz. PORT Polski Centre for Technology Development. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted against, 60 against, 22 against. [[Voting No 50]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on supporting scientific activity from the Polish Science Fund. We return to agenda item nineteen: the law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. We return to the examination of the 20th agenda item: the Law on the rules of operation of certain financial market entities following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of the Senate print No 1127 A. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Rules of Conduct of Certain Financial Market Entities following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act on Senate Print No 1131 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 specifies the provision by specifying that it refers not to participation in securities and to participation in rights incorporated in securities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 2 aims to conclude that the participating State within the meaning of the Act is each country with which Poland has concluded an agreement on automatic exchange of information, and thus that the list of participating States, published by the Minister responsible for public finances on the BIP pages, is merely informative. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] Amendments 3 and 4 voted together. They extend the deadline for submitting a tax residence statement to account holders and specify the rules for making a declaration in the context of the obligation to make a declaration under criminal liability added by the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote... We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the Law on Measurements. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 1130 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 82 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Law on Measurements. We would like to return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law on the rules for determining the order of appointment of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019.2024. The meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 1129 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the joint committees, I recommend to the Senate that the conclusions set out in points 1, 2 and 3 be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u304	Thank you very much, Senator. Do Senator Marek Martynowski or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? This also applies to Senator Rafał Ambrozik. No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Janek, no!]] [[But against what?]] [[It doesn't matter. Vote against.]] Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 2 were in favour, 62 against, 19 abstentions. [[Voting No 58]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the amendments tabled to the law. Amendments 1, 2 and 3 should be voted together. They aim to exclude the application of the provisions set out therein in respect of a Member of the European Parliament until he has taken up the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 60 in favour, 22 abstentions. [[Voting No 59]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 61 votes against, 2 against and 21 abstentions. [[Voting No 60]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the rules for determining the order of filling the seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019.2024. We return to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the License of the Restructuring Advisor and some other laws. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act on Senate Print No 1122 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 adapts the Act on the National Debt Register, as regards the provision amending the Law on the License of the Restructuring Advisor, to the Act under consideration. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all voters voted in favour. [[Voting No 61]] Amendment 2 takes into account in the expenditure clause that the Act will enter into force on 1 January 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 3 sets the correct date for the entry into force of the transitional provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all voters voted in favour. [[Voting No 63]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 61 were in favour, 18 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 64]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the License of the Restructuring Advisor and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the law on amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 67 were in favour, 16 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 65]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. We return to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Act amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and certain other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate printing No 1124 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 80 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 66]] We are returning to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Public Road Act. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate printing No 1125 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] It's gonna work. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 62 were in favour, 21 against. [[Voting No 67]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Public Road Act. I would like to inform you that the order of the 70th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within the time available, i.e. 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Does anyone want to speak? [[Senator Silence.]] Mr. Senator Silence. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Silence!]] Mr. Senator Silence! [[Yes, sir.]] You're welcome to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am directing my speech to the Minister of Science and Higher Education. Due to the new law, there is a problem in practice as to the spending of the funds that universities receive. From many universities, I hear that the first tranche of money that has been transferred to universities has been transferred to equal pay in such a way that those below the minimum required reach the minimum level and then the second tranche of money has been transferred to a 7% increase for employees. And what's the problem? Namely, some rectors believe that from the second tranche, which is intended to raise salaries by 7%, the amounts previously intended to equalise to the minimum remuneration may be deducted. Therefore, my question to the Minister is: how do you treat these tranches of money that have been transferred to universities? Is it separative, that is, that the first is only to equalise to the minimum wage and the second to raise to 7%, or can they be treated together and deduct in the second tranche those amounts which were intended to equalise remuneration after receiving the first tranche?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-21-senat-75-2.u306	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 70th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 70th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 21 minutes 37]]
