ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec and Grzegorz Puda. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec. Madam Secretary, please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 9.45, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the occurrence of negligence and omissions by public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties during the period December 2007 to November 2015 - immediately after the end of the votes, i.e. approx. hour 12, - Education, Science and Youth - 15 minutes after the end of the votes, approx. hour. 12.15, - Education, Science and Youth - 15 minutes after the end of point 28 hours. 16. Communication on the meetings of the teams. The Parliamentary Group will meet today. Safety of the Children's and Adults' Protective Vaccination Program - hours 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We proceed with the examination of item 16. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Code of Civil Procedure Act (Print No 3295). Unfortunately, Undersecretary of State Mr Łukasz Piebiak is still absent. I am therefore announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 minutes 04 hours 9 min 13]] Well, then, the Minister is here, so I resume my deliberations. And I'm asking you to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the justification for the bill amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Civil Code Act. The need for these changes to be made today is the result of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 26 November 2013 in case P 33/12. By virtue of that judgment, Article. 71 The family and caring code stating that the denial of fatherhood was not admissible after the death of the child expired on 4 December 2013 due to non-compliance with the Article. 47 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 18 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 8 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, drawn up in Rome on 4 November 1950. For the same reasons, on the same date, the same Article was repealed. 456 §3 k.p.c. to the extent that it refers to the denial of fatherhood. Consequently, the proposal provides for the amendment of both substantive legislation, i.e. The family and caring code, as well as the formal law governing the conduct of these matters, contained in the Code of Civil Procedure. Without questioning the principle that the child's welfare is a constitutional value of particular importance, the protection of which may justify limiting the possibility of establishing a biological parenthood, the Constitutional Tribunal noted that the absolute implementation of the principle of permanent civil status after the death of man does not find any additional basis in the need to protect the welfare of the deceased child, since, as he stated, the denial of fatherhood does not affect the established family ties. The restriction laid down in the said provisions shall not be justified by the need to protect any of the goods mentioned in Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitution, in particular freedom, health, public morality or the rights of others and therefore constitutes a constitutional restriction on parents' rights to establish parenthood. The proposed revision of the Family and Care Code, taking into account the effects of the Court's ruling, will enable the process of denying the fatherhood of the child to be completed. This amendment is introduced by the proposed Article. 70 codes. In order to harmonise the procedural arrangements for determining parenthood, the project consistently introduces this possibility in cases of denial of motherhood, i.e. the proposed Article. 61 The family and caring code, and the determination of the inefficiencies of the recognition of the fatherhood, art. 83 § 1 k.r.o., which was initiated during the life of the child. These arrangements should also result in the admissibility of a judicial determination of motherhood or fatherhood after the death of a child in order to adapt to the Article. 76 § 2 allowing for recognition of paternity after the death of a child. This amendment was introduced following a ruling of the Constitutional Court of 16 July 2007. The current regulation does not allow the determination of motherhood or fatherhood after the death of a child if the child was not a cause in an ongoing case. Only the prosecutor has that option, which is apparent from the article. 61, first sentence and Article. 86th sentence of the first paragraph If that's the right of attorney, there's no reason to deny it to a mother or an alleged father of a child. The possibility of a judicial determination of motherhood or fatherhood should also be allowed after the death of the child, in order to rule out the situation that the child's marital status will not be established. Such a solution is an obvious consequence of allowing the possibility of denying motherhood or fatherhood after the death of a child if the child dies in the course of a trial brought before him during his life. At the same time, given that, in accordance with the applicable rules, only a child can bring such an action, a time-curse for a woman or a man wishing to bring an action for the determination of motherhood or fatherhood accordingly after the death of a child should be the day on which the deceased child would have reached adult age. The prosecutor shall have specific powers in this respect as guardian of the rule of law. In view of these regulations in the field of substantive law, it is also necessary to amend the Article. 456 Code of Civil Procedure to determine how a court should proceed after the death of a child depending on the role of the child in the trial. Moreover, in view of the nature of the prosecutor's power to bring actions after the death of the child, it is necessary to amend the article. 454 Code of Civil Procedure for the regulation of the application against a curator in the event that the child is dead. In turn, the proposed amendments to the Article. 99, 178 and 179 of the Family and Welfare Code are implementing the order of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 February 2014 in Case S 2/14. This provision was issued against the background of the representation of the child as a victim in criminal proceedings. Its justification shows that the legislative proposals concern family law standards and should not only be dealt with in criminal proceedings. There are two demands: firstly, to guarantee the appropriate qualifications and competences of the curator in Article. 99 The family and caring code and, secondly, the imposition on this curator of the article. 99 information obligations in relation to the parent caring for the child. As the Court pointed out, the current rules grant courts an extremely large margin of discretion as regards the choice of the person competent to represent the minor in judicial proceedings, including criminal proceedings. The child's interests are not always properly represented. In line with these demands, the proposed legislative changes aim at setting standards for the child's representation by the guardian and guaranteeing the child's due protection of his rights and interests and strengthening the legal position of parents in the day-to-day care of the child. To this end, in the proposed amendment to the article. 99 formal requirements for the probation officer have been formulated. In principle, only a lawyer or legal counsel may be involved, which is justified by the assumption that a lawyer and a lawyer as professionals have the greatest knowledge and professional experience in representing other persons in proceedings. The lawyer or legal counsel to become a curator should additionally be entitled to complete appropriate training on the principles of the child's representation, rights or needs, or to demonstrate specific knowledge of matters relating to the child, which are generally equivalent to a case in which there is a need to establish a guardian. In cases less complex, another person with legal education and a knowledge of the needs of the child may also be a curator, in particular when the custody court details the content of the proceedings and, if special circumstances so warrant, another person with a knowledge of the needs of the child. In particular, such a solution will enable the appointment of attorneys or counselors as guardians, which is currently being practiced in courts and in many cases seems sufficient. Representatives of NGOs will also remain among potential candidates. They should also have a knowledge of the needs of the child in addition to validating themselves to appropriate education. This means that a probation officer representing a minor can make decisions that are in the child's best interests and interests. If the case does not require this, which the court will assess in the context of special circumstances, another person may also be appointed as guardian, especially from the circle of the child's family, demonstrating knowledge of the child's needs, provided, of course, the child's independence from the child's parents. This exception will not apply to the representation of the child in criminal proceedings, given the particular nature of these cases, as referred to in the proposed Article. 99 § 5 k.r.o. The project shall prejudge the scope of the probation officer's powers, indicating that the probation officer shall always take action in the interests of the child. In addition to the current cascade reference, it shall be indicated which legal rules governing the care institution apply to the curator. This also requires a revision of the article. 178 consisting of the addition of paragraph 3. Add the proposed Article. 179 § 1 k.r.o. is justified by the fact that, in the current legal state, the curator established pursuant to Article. 99 The family and caring code to represent the child in proceedings other than civil proceedings is exposed to the fact that he will not receive the remuneration and reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with the prosecution, as Art. 179 provides that this remuneration shall be in line with the income or property of the person for whom the probation officer is established. The proposal therefore clarifies that this court or body, before which the curator represents the child, will decide on the compensation of the curator, and not every time that the curator has appointed the curator. The reference to the competent court or body of the procedure will enable the compensation and expenses incurred by the curator as costs of the procedure to be cleared. In the current state of law, only the provisions of civil proceedings determine the rates of such remuneration and therefore the draft provides that the court or body, determining the remuneration of the curator and the expenditure incurred by him on the basis of the procedural rules applicable to the proceedings concerned, shall determine the amount of that remuneration on the basis of the rules applicable in civil proceedings, namely the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 9 March 2018 determining the amount of remuneration and reimbursement of expenses incurred by the curators established for the party in civil matters. In view of the above, I ask that the High House adopt the draft submitted as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I invite you to speak with Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u6	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of my Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Civil Procedure Code Act, contained in print no. 3295. The bill amending the law concerns the determination of motherhood and fatherhood, the denial of motherhood and fatherhood, the clarification of the probation officer's powers and scope of action and the formal requirements concerning the guardian's person. The need for amendments to the family and care code in the field of subsidiary law arises from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 26 November 2013, which resulted in Article. 71 The family and care code, according to which the denial of fatherhood was not admissible after the death of the child, expired on 4 December 2013. For the same reasons and with the same date, the existing Article has ceased to apply. 456 § 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure in so far as it refers to cases of denial of paternity. At the same time, the current regulation does not allow the determination of motherhood or fatherhood after the death of a child if the child was not the cause of the pending case. Only the D.A. has that option. Since such authority is available to the prosecutor, it should not be denied to the mother or the alleged father of the child. The possibility of a judicial determination of motherhood or fatherhood should also be allowed after the death of the child in order to rule out the situation that the child's marital status will remain unresolved. Such a solution is an obvious consequence of allowing the possibility of denying motherhood or fatherhood after the death of a child if the child dies in the course of a trial brought before him during his life. Proposed amendments to Article On the other hand, 99 of the Family and Care Code constitute the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal's order of 11 February 2014. This provision was issued in connection with the representation of the child as a victim in criminal proceedings. Although the operative part of the decision is to speak only criminal proceedings, however, it follows from the justification of the provision that the legislative proposals concern the standards of family law and cannot be dealt with only in relation to criminal proceedings. There are two requests from the Constitutional Tribunal: the introduction of a standard ensuring the appropriate qualifications and competence of the curator and the imposition of information obligations on the curator, even the obligation to consult with the parent in charge of the child. The proposed changes also aim to implement the demands of the representatives of the doctrine. The proposed provisions therefore provide for: an obligation for the curator to know, hear and inform the child of the actions he is taking, an obligation on the curator to keep confidential the information he has taken in the performance of this function, a regulation on the rules of remuneration of the curator, and a clarification of the powers and scope of the curator's activities. Designed art. 99 The family and care code is to apply both to the curator established to represent the child in the course of proceedings before a court or another body, e.g. administratively and in relation to the performance of activities where parents cannot represent the child. As a consequence, the proposed legislative changes aim to set standards for the child's representation by the guardian and to guarantee the child's due protection of his rights and interests and to strengthen the legal position of parents in the day-to-day care of the child. In order to achieve these objectives in the amended Article. 99 The family and caring code of the project contains 10 editorial units. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am in favour of further work on this project and referring it to the competent committee set up for this purpose, the Extraordinary Commission for the change in codification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u7	Thank you. I invite Mr Zdzisław Gawlik to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I wanted to present my position on the proposed law amending the Family and Care Code and the Civil Procedure Code Act, print no. 3295. The main objective of the project is to amend the Family and Care Code with regard to the establishment of relations between the relevant persons whose origin is the origin of the child, the birth of the child. The determination of the origin of one person from another does not only close within the direct relationship between parents and children and extends, which is not without regard to the law, to indirect relations resulting from family relationships, e.g. Between grandpa and granddaughter or granddaughter and granddaughter. The main reason for the proposed revision of the Family and Care Code is the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 26 November 2013, according to which, as the previous speakers said here, the article at that time. 71 providing for the inadmissibility of fatherhood after the death of his father was declared incompatible with the Constitution. The proposed amendment directly affects not only the provisions of the Family and Care Code, but also the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code. The main issues covered by this amendment concern, firstly, the determination of the origin of the child with regard to motherhood and fatherhood, secondly, the possibility of denying motherhood and fatherhood, thirdly, the impact of the age of the child on determining the origin of the child, fourthly, the impact of the death of the child and the father on the possibility of determining the origin of the child. The fifth issue relates to a group of provisions concerning the requirements of the child's guardian on the origin of the child. In doing so, specific requirements for qualifications, education prices or actual knowledge of the child's affairs by a potential probation officer shall be formulated. In the opinion of the Civic Platform-Citizen's Coalition Parliamentary Club, this project should be aimed at the work of the committee responsible for optimally shaping the solutions taken in the novel of the Family and Care Code and the Civil Procedure Code, as it concerns a number of important issues that go far beyond this regulation. It concerns, firstly, the marital status of the child and his relatives, i.e. a specific photograph of the child against the background of his family, secondly, the right of a woman and a man to be a mother and father, thirdly, a proper understanding of the principle of the good of the child, fourthly, the sphere of formation and exercise of parental authority, and fifthly, the formation of property relations between the persons concerned, because the relationship and its degree is not irrelevant to the order of appointment to inherit, if the source of succession is the law. Given the project submitted, we note that the immanent feature of private law is its conservatism, stability. Here we are dealing with another change within the Family and Care Code, similarly within the Code of Civil Procedure, and we have discussed changes within the Civil Code law in this House many times. So I wanted to address the questions to the Minister: How many of these amendments have been? How much longer is it gonna be? Were they all thoughtful and necessary? What has been the result of these changes that have been introduced so far within the framework of private law regulations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u9	Thank you. I invite Mrs Barbara Chrobak to present her position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 is a civil movement, one of the founding foundations of which is to extend citizens' freedom in all areas of public and private life. One such freedom is the freedom of biological parents and children to exercise their right to establish by judicial means the existence or non-existence of fatherhood and motherhood. This right has been restricted for many years because of the child's well-being that is too widely established. It must, of course, continue to be at the centre and I say it with all my determination as the president of the Parliamentary Group, the welfare of the child as the highest objective. But it cannot be that, at the same time, this condition reduces the fundamental freedoms of citizens, the right of parents to determine whether they are the biological parents of the child. This is the direction of the Constitutional Court judgment of 26 November 2013, which led to the article. 71 The family and caring code, according to which the denial of fatherhood was not permitted after the death of the child, lost its force as non-constitutional. The Constitutional Tribunal noted that the absolute implementation of the principle of non-change of civil status after death does not find any additional basis in the need to protect the welfare of the deceased child, since the denial of fatherhood does not affect the formed family ties. The current regulation does not allow the determination of motherhood or fatherhood after the death of a child if the child was not a cause in an ongoing case. Only the D.A. has that option. Since such authority is available to the prosecutor, there is no reason to deny it to the mother or the alleged father of the child. The possibility of a judicial determination of motherhood or fatherhood should also be allowed after the death of the child in order to rule out the situation that the child's marital status will remain unresolved. The proposal provides for a restriction on the prohibition of denial of motherhood and fatherhood after the death of a child. According to the project, the mother and father cannot bring an action for parental determination after the child reaches his/her age. However, this entitlement is limited by the indication that if the child died before he reached his teenage age, the prosecutor may bring an action until the date on which the child would have reached his teenage age. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In summary, presented by the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General's proposal raises no doubt. It is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal set up at the outset. It is also, in a sense, an extension of the freedom of parents to make arrangements in the area of paternity or motherhood. Finally, it is not a threat to what is most important to us, and I mean the welfare of the youngest citizens. The Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u11	Thank you, Member. The position on behalf of the Modern Club will be presented to Monika Rosa. I'm sorry, sir. I'm in a hurry, sir. You're welcome to the podium. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will present his position on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Civil Procedure Code Act contained in Seym Printing No. 3295. As my previous speakers have already said, the proposed amendment concerns the need to implement the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2013, as a result of which art. 71 of the Family and Care Code has expired and the provisions of 11 February 2014 which signalled the need to introduce a standard ensuring that the guardian is properly qualified to represent the child in criminal proceedings in the event of a conflict of interest between his parents and to impose information obligations on that probation officer in relation to the parent in charge of the child. After the change, the denial of fatherhood and motherhood is to be admissible after the death of the child when it died after the initiation of the procedure. This is about the possibility of completing such cases if the child died during their lifetime. This is currently not possible under applicable law for alleged parents after the death of a child, only the prosecutor and the successors of the deceased child who requested such an arrangement during their lifetime. In such a situation, there is no reason to deny this right to alleged parents. Therefore, judicial determinations of fatherhood or motherhood after the death of a child will also be possible for supposed parents if the child died before he was of age, but an action for the determination of fatherhood or motherhood would then have to take place until the date on which the child would have become of age. Provisions have also been introduced to determine what qualifications a curator should be established to represent a child in judicial and administrative proceedings and in legal proceedings. Provisions were also added concerning the imposition of obligations on the guardian of the child and on the child itself. In principle, only a lawyer or legal counsel can become such a curator, but it is mandatory in criminal proceedings when there is a conflict of interest between the parents of the child. Lawyers and lawyers shall have professional knowledge and experience which guarantee the proper protection of the interests of the child. However, in order for a lawyer or a lawyer to become a curator, he must demonstrate special knowledge of the child's affairs or must complete appropriate training on the principles of the child's representation, rights and needs. Information obligations were also imposed on the probation officer in relation to the parent who was taking care of the child, but who was not involved in the proceedings. At the same time, the probation officer was obliged to obtain information from such a parent about the child for the proper representation of the child. In addition, the probation officer was required to provide the child with the necessary information, if at the appropriate age, related to the conduct. High Izbo! Both amendments implementing the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal raise no doubt. There is no reason why the determination of fatherhood or motherhood could not be completed after the death of the child. This is important, among others. for inheritance reasons. The proposal to establish the standard of qualification that a curator established to represent a child in judicial and administrative proceedings should also deserve attention and further work in committees. In this way, the parliamentary club of PSL and the European Union of Democrats proposes that the project be included in the codification committee. There will eventually be doubts that raises, eliminates. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u13	Thank you very much. And now on behalf of the Modern Club, Mrs Monica Rosa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u14	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! The bill we are discussing is based, among others, on the bill. of the need to enforce the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal: the first of 26 November 2013, as a result of which Article. 71 of the Family and Care Code, which states that the denial of paternity is not admissible after the death of the child, has expired, and the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling of 11 February 2014, which referred to the need for a regulation which would ensure that the guardian is adequately qualified to represent the child in criminal proceedings in the event of a conflict of interest between his parents, and to impose an information obligation on the curator in relation to the parent in charge of the child. Amendment of the Family and Care Code and the Civil Procedure Code, which implements the first of these judgments, i.e. the loss of validity of the article. 71 k.r.o. is to enable the process of denying the fatherhood, the process of denying motherhood and the process of determining the ineffectiveness of the recognition of the child, initiated during the life of the child, and to enable the determination of motherhood or fatherhood by judicial means after the death of the child. The second of the judgments consists in the entry of requirements for curators appointed pursuant to Article. Ninety-nine family code and guardianship code. In principle, it will always be possible for a lawyer or legal counsel in criminal proceedings to demonstrate special knowledge of matters relating to a child corresponding to a case in which representation of the child is required, or who has completed appropriate training. In addition, this project also imposes an information obligation on the probation officer for a parent who does not participate in the proceedings, but also takes care of the child, as well as an information obligation for a parent who does not participate in the proceedings, as I said. This bill does not raise our doubts, it executes the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, while during the public consultation some comments were made, among others. The Foundation gives the Children the strength to say that the proposed solution as a valid idea is not enough - it is a guardianship for a minor - as a regulation providing proper representation for children, in particular in criminal proceedings, paying attention here to the possible inadequate preparation of this representation for the protection of the rights of the child and paying attention also to the issue of informing the parent, saying that the proposed records also do not meet the idea which was the cause of the Constitutional Court. We are in favour of directing this project to the committee and explaining these possible doubts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u15	Thank you. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of people who want to ask a question? You're welcome, sir. After this entry, I close the list. We begin by asking Mrs Alicia Chybicka, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have doubts that the proposed changes protect the child's interests well, because in fact the child's custody code should be kept in mind as the child's first best interests. I am referring here to a special group of children, such as children who are fighting for their lives against disease, various cancers, chronics, at the border of life and death, where often a divorce case takes place over the head of this child, where this struggle of parents for a child, accompanied by a determination as to whether the parents currently taking care of the child are biological parents, especially in larger children such as teens, causes, as soon as they see the light of day, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Despair. Are these interests in such a group of children certainly well secured by this bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u17	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. But before you ask a question, we will greet the students from the music school to them. Grażyny Bacewicz in Koszalin. Enjoy your stay in Warsaw and positive impressions from the Sejm. Welcome. [[Applause]] Now, Madam, I ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Designed amendments to the article. 99 concern the probation officer's institution. I would like to stress that despite these changes, the curate in the Polish system of law still remains an institution with an uneven structure. The institution varies considerably, and its different types are present and regulated in a number of laws. I wanted to ask if any measures will be taken to achieve a comprehensive and uniform standardization of the institutions of prosecutors in Poland. Creating such a regulation would increase transparency and facilitate their application. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, will ask the last question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u20	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two questions. The judgment is dated 2013 with effect for 2014. If I'm not mistaken, it's 2019. What's been going on for five years? Why is this subject raised only today? That's the first question. And the second question, as it were, to my predecessor, the previous statement: How does the Minister - in short, because we also have another point - assess the functioning of the institutions in general today? Is the Ministry working on changes to this institution? Kuratela's got a lot to say for herself. We are talking about the case for minors, and very often we are also hearing about problems with the functioning of the so-called. curators for persons unknown from the place of residence. I know this doesn't apply to children at the moment, but I think it's worth leaning on the subject of functioning at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the institution's propriety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u21	Thank you very much. This and earlier questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Chybick's first question concerned children in a very serious state threatening their health and life, who were at the limit of life and death, as you were kind to say. Does this bill safeguard the interests of such children? She doesn't generally concern it. It concerns the execution of the judgment of the tribunal and what the tribunal has signalled. In fact, it is difficult to imagine a law that could offer such a special group of children some solutions. In situations where there are misunderstandings, divorce proceedings, child battles in the family court, establishing contacts and all conflicts involved, parents are responsible for the children. This is a question of adult responsibility, not of regulation. Legal regulations are not able to exhaust all possible facts. It is rather a question of whether, in such a case, these conflicts cannot be minimized, or at least not involving children. The legislator has a relatively small room for manoeuvre. Rather, it is the responsibility of adults for the well-being of children, especially sick children. With regard to Mrs Navel's question, neither we nor anyone else - no matter which side of the political stage the government would be - will not harmonise all accidents for the reason that the family and the criminal prosecution are different specialisations within the status of a particular professional group. In addition, we have curators to do certain activities that we are talking about today. We have very different parolees. In fact, the term curator combines very different situations and functions in various types of proceedings. Sometimes the only link between these situations is this ambiguous name. The answer is therefore: we do not plan such harmonisation. We are planning a major reform of the courthouse, a new law on probationary judicial services in order to modernise and improve the functioning of this extremely important part of the state's activities. I think we will discuss this in this House in a month, maybe a month and a half. This is also partly the answer to Mr Grabowski's question, which he asked us to refer to the way the rules on prosecutions work. As regards the time limit for the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling, of course, I can only be held responsible for what has been happening since late autumn 2015. It is not this government that is responsible for what happened in 2013, 2014 and almost the whole of 2015. We had a number of different projects in the area of family law. We wanted to examine this area thoroughly, also with the help of the Justice Institute, which is regulated here. We wanted to address this issue as widely as possible so that it would not be limited to the simple execution of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, but also take into account all that is involved and is needed for the system to function better after the entry into force of the law. That's why it took us a little more than two years. I think that by the end of this term, we will be able to pass the bill and execute the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u23	Thank you, Minister. After this speech, the discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Civil Procedure Code Act contained in print No. 3295 to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. I'm declaring a time-out. 10. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min 53 hours 10 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 3359. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The European Union Commission submitted an additional report on the Commission's draft resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2018 (the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union), print No 3331. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including a vote on this draft resolution. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Real Estate Management Act, - amending the Act establishing the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, - to support scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund, - amending the Law on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws, - the rules for determining the order in which Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland are to be filled for the term of office of 2019.2024, - amending the Law on the License of the Restructuring Advisor and certain other laws. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints 3328, 3334, 3329, 3343, 3325 and 3338. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Quiet, please. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and paragraph 5. 5a Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Commission for Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities, print No 3327. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5a Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Game in the O.R.]] High Seym! May I have your attention, please? Our vote today on the bill on ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019 is followed by a delegation of the Assembly of the Republic of North Macedonia with its vice-president, Mr Vesel Memedi. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] We cordially welcome the honored guests. Thank you for coming and glamorizing us with this important event. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. Third reading. Commissions, I remind you, are requesting the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3299. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3299 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There were 391 Members voted. For - 388, against - 1, holding off on 2. I declare that the Sejm has passed the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. We return to the review of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law on one-off provision of money to pensioners in 2019. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3342-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u24	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Prime Minister! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, print No. 3342-A, on the Government's draft law on one-off provision of money to pensioners in 2019, print No. 3311. The Sejm shall be held at its 79th meeting on 3 April in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3342 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering 50 amendments at its meeting on 3 April, requests that all amendments be rejected, as well as two minority proposals and that the law be adopted in accordance with the government draft in print no. 3311. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u25	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you, it's a 3342 print. The Commission is presenting minority proposals and amendments on which we will vote first. In an additional report, the committee proposes to combine most of the amendments into four blocks. We will vote in accordance with the committee's resolutions on the merger of amendments. The first block of amendments includes amendments: 1. the provision of the title law was to provide money to pensioners, as well as 8, 16, 18, 20, 22 to 24, 27, 28., 30 to 37, 39, 42, 47 and 50. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission, I remind you, requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render minority proposals and amendments combined in block two, third and fourth. The question is asked by Mr Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Our amendments - the request, however, for them to receive here, on the last line, your acceptance - concern some consequences of the action, that it be not a one-off allowance, because, let's agree, the thirteenth pension is not a pension, but it is an addition, only that it is repetitive, so that pensioners can plan it in their expenses. Pensioners cannot pay for the fact that there are no parliamentary elections next year, and I think that the cost of living, the cost of medicines will not be lower next year, will not be lower than today. Therefore, we ask you very much to support our amendments, which will create a good law. Each year, these allowances will then be passed on to pensioners and will be valued. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u27	Thank you. Mr Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! These amendments, like the PSL amendments, concern one basic thing, but the same thing as what this law is supposed to do - to ensure a sense of security for pensioners. There is no better way to ensure a sense of security than to guarantee the constancy of revenue. Therefore, we ask you to consider this and they rejected what you are accusing - that this is the effect that this is a pre-election action, so that you will support this benefit so that it will be permanently included in the income of our pensioners. They just deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u29	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Once again, I wanted to assure you that the allowances paid once in the spring after autumn cannot be taken away, there is no physical possibility, so please do not mislead pensioners that you are introducing some permanent allowance, because this is a one-time allowance. Even the title of the bill speaks of it. But I have one more thing to worry about. Since yesterday we are talking in this room about spending PLN 11 billion from the state budget, which has not been included in this budget, about 11 billion extra spent. I have a question: Where is Minister Czerwińska, because we do not really know today whether the Minister of Finance supports an increase of 11 billion PLN from the state budget? The justification of the bill only says that the Social Insurance Fund deficit is increasing, but we do not even know if, because no one has counted it precisely. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We ask: What is the position of the Minister of Finance in this matter? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u31	Thank you. We can proceed with the vote. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the amendments that I mentioned earlier, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 170, against - 225, holding 18. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The second block of amendments includes amendments: 2. the provision of the title law was to increase pensions, pensions and other social security benefits, as well as 5, 11, 19, 21, 25, 26 and 29. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of the amendments combined in block three and four. The question is asked by Mr Richard Petru, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have tabled an amendment that will check the true intentions of the PiS - instead of a one-time charity salary, there was a 92 PLN increase per month. And I wanted to ask you what's standing in the way of making such a change. Let the retirees and pensioners see what the real intentions of the ruling party are. The PiS doesn't want to improve your situation at all. Those who vote against this amendment today, I'm really going to show you that what you care about is only in the case of pensioners votes. The PiS doesn't want to improve your situation at all. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Those who live in poverty today will live in the same poverty next year. I appeal to pensioners and pensioners. If the PiS rejects this amendment, take these 13s, go to the election and vote against the PiS. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u33	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments in the second block of amendments, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 138, against - 226, with 55. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The third block of amendments includes amendments: 3 by issuing the title law on one-off payments to pensioners in 2019 and 2020, as well as 6, 10, 13, 38, 43., 45 and 48. We will vote on them together. The Commission, I remind you, requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render minority proposals irrelevant and the amendments combined in the fourth block. The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last Sunday in Ukraine, the presidential elections were held, which were closely observed by international observers because of concerns about democratic procedures being followed. The OSCE, a well-known organisation, mentioned in its report, pointed out one very important thing, namely that the very large controversy raised a one-and-a-half-month grant before the single-aid elections, an allowance for pensioners, which could have a bearing on the destruction of democratic procedures. Hence my question: Don't you have any resistance to such rude use of public money in the election campaign? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u35	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments contained in the third block of amendments, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 170, against - 229, stopped 20. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The fourth block of amendments includes the following amendments: 4 by giving the title law a one-off payment to pensioners from 2019 and 7, 9, 12, 15, 17, 40, 41, 46 and 49. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of minority proposals. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's easy to steal the name of the competition project, but it's harder to realize it. There was supposed to be a 13th pension, Mr Kaczyński, but what you're proposing is not a 13th pension. You don't even use that term anymore today. You're using the term "Emerity+." And why isn't that $1100? That's what you said at the convention. You said that to all the pensioners in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Exactly a year ago 224 Members of Law and Justice led by Mrs Szydło, with Mrs Rafalska rejected the pension project without tax, so pensioners will not receive PLN 1100, only PLN 888,25. They took the money that you just owed them. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u37	Member of Urszula Pasławska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! This bill is intended to cover all pensioners and pensioners. Therefore, I have a question: Why have you forgotten the farmers who are taking structural pensions as usual? You confirmed it yesterday, Deputy Minister Zielenecki. Question to Minister Ardanowski: What was your position on this matter? Why do you always forget farmers? Why do farmers who receive structural pensions not get a 13th pension? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u39	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the amendments in the fourth block of amendments, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 173, against - 227, the 18. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 14th amendment to the article. 2 (2) 2 applicants propose to add point 9a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Prime Minister came here yesterday and announced to the whole of Poland that Polish pensioners dream of a pilgrimage to Medjugorje. Prime Minister Morawiecki! I'd like to bring you down. I would like to inform you about what Polish pensioners dream about. Polish pensioners dream of being admitted in time to the E.R. Polish pensioners dream of not waiting six months to see a specialist doctor. Polish pensioners dream of not having to wait six months for rehabilitation, hip surgery or cataracts. Your dreams and dreams of retired people are quite different. What you are proposing at the moment is supported by us because this initiative came out of the Civic Platform, but I would like you to be fully aware that your dreams and dreams of Polish pensioners are extremely different. I'd like you to get down on the ground. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u41	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is now a time to ask questions, not to make statements. [[Voice from the room: And now is the answer time. So?]] Mr Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Polish solidarity, Prime Minister... There is a group of people who are notoriously forgotten is neglected by the government and lives for PLN 520 a month. It is about a group that has even met the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on your motion. This is a group of carers for adults with disabilities. He's doing a serious, responsible job for the state. She takes care of people with disabilities. He's resigning from his job. Why are you also ignoring this group in this witness? This is less than PLN 160 million, which you would have to add, and you would have supported this group as well. Please support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u43	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 185, against - 228, with a hold of 8. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 44th amendment, applicants propose that after Article. 13 add a new article. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Last year, there was Beata Szydło on this platform, who with great determination said: "This money belonged to them. Yeah, let's remind them how much they deserved. You were 65,000, the Prime Minister was 75,000, and Minister Rafalski was 70,000. This is the situation we see. Today you offer 888,25 PLN. This is a one-time benefit, but what is very interesting - granted once every 4 years. And this is really the only program that you have presented for 4 years towards Polish pensioners. And the retirees had a chance to say, "I'm checking." And they were checking you out when you turned down the pension bill without tax, when you turned down the aid bill to independent people, or you rejected it every year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] amendment concerning patients with Alzheimer's disease. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u45	Thank you, sir. And I would like to point out to you again that right now is the time to ask questions, not make statements. [[So? You're gonna rule him out?]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 44th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 173, against - 226, with 19. The Sejm rejected the amendment. 1. minority request. Applicants shall propose that Article be deleted. 14. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 168, against - 224, the 25. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority application, applicants shall propose to delete Article. 15. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the second minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 164, against - 227, holding 30. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the entire bill. Questions. Ms Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will repeat what was going on in the debate yesterday. It's a failed attempt to imitate the idea of PO, because it's a one-time addition, which is de facto bribery before the election. The amendments proposed that this be paid for the following years. What does the committee recommend? Votes denied by the PiS. My question to the representatives of the government. Why? Is it because it's a form of one-off bribery? Does the Minister have the courage to go out and give the pensioners a guarantee for the years to come? Probably not. Jarosław Kaczyński did not do it, Minister Czerwińska did not do it. You are aware that this bill is going to give you votes in the election. And the Poles are a wise nation, and for this cynicism they will bill you, only for this bill, Mr Kaczyński, you will have to pay. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What's the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u47	Mr Richard Petru has the floor, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're still avoiding the question of where the money comes from for the 13th pension. For years, you've been telling the disabled, the doctors, the teachers that there's no money for them... [[For how many years?]] ...because you've run out of our money a long time ago. The main principle of every responsible government is that to spend, you have to earn first, and you go along with Comrade Gierek's way: to indebt, distribute, and then subvert the country, make people miserable and bankrupt. [[Who indebted to the Modern?]] And today I obey. You are already preparing a rope for the future government and future generations. Your cynical and nonchalant policy will end in an economic disaster. We have a choice: Poland rich and wealthy or Poland on benefits, drowning in debt. I choose the rich, you choose the benefits. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And I will vote against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u49	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is the time to ask questions, not to make statements. Mr Kaminski has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Before I ask them, I wanted to make an important point. Namely, only people who are mean, dishonest, moral and intellectual impossists can see a connection between the fact of the election on 26 May and this law which is about to pay extra money in May. Especially since the generosity of this government for pensioners is seen every month by one important pensioner from Torun, and now it is to be extended to all pensioners and can only be applauded. [[Voice from the room: Question.]] My question is: When in Poland we changed the calendar, so that April is the twelfth month and 13th is paid out in May? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u51	Mr Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, don't you think it is insane to use the very difficult situation of pensioners and to use taxpayers' money to make their own election campaign? This is not a systemic change, this is not a change that will make pensions in Poland safe for the long term. She doesn't keep them safe. For PLN 888 they will go three times privately to the doctor. But what's next? This bill doesn't change the number of geriatrics, geriatric troops, it doesn't make the queues shorter. For 888 zlotys, three, four times they go to the pharmacy and they don't walk away because the bills are too high, but this bill won't be safe by the pharmacy window. You had to vote for a pension without tax, you had to give a permanent supplement, raise the lowest pensions. Yeah, it's just pure bribery, and it's in the worst form, because it's using the poorest pensioners. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that this is a time to ask questions, not make statements. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[We're still waiting for a statement.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: And to the Prime Minister's reply.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A few questions for you. The first question is this. Retired people are waiting for this money, but they're not waiting for a one-time charity, they're waiting for a steady improvement in their existence. The question then, Prime Minister, is this a one-time shot, or will it be a fixed 13th pension paid annually? That's one thing. Secondly, where do you want to get PLN 10 billion per year - if this is to be every year, then annually - to pay such benefits? These are basic, fundamental questions that I hope the Prime Minister will answer. And one more question. I asked, the Prime Minister didn't answer that question. Tell me what exactly makes you calculate that in May, two weeks before the election, you should give the pensioners an extra pension. Prime Minister, I ask you to be brave, to come out here and answer these three questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u55	And those are the questions, ladies and gentlemen, understood. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! The Confederation - remember that name, because it will be loud this political season. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Millions of Polish pensioners need a permanent, increased benefit because these pensions are very low. They don't need a sausage delivery, they don't need a lot out of their pockets before the election using taxes to put money in their second pocket. This is depraving public debate, demoralizing people, this is populism at its worst. As I recall, in 2005 no one other than Jarosław Kaczyński in the Batory Foundation, not in another foundation, but in the Batory Foundation, warned against the populists from Samoobrona and the League of Polish Families - I then supported the League of Polish Families as a young boy - I am surprised and ask myself: What happened, Prime Minister, isn't the Foundation of Batory so close to you? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u57	Mr President, a question must be asked to the representative of the government. [[That's the question.]] [[The premiere was.]] Please make such cases in the following point: Members' statements. Mr Robert Majka, not associated Member, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My question to Prime Minister Morawiecki is brief. Namely, as far as I know... [[Louder.]] ...Mr.Glinski allocated PLN 100 million to the Jewish cemeteries as well as to the POLIN museum. Tell me: Isn't it better to allocate these funds to pensions for Poles? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u59	Minister Elżbieta Rafalska will answer some, perhaps all questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For exactly 3.5 years, the Government of the United Rights has used various mechanisms to support older people who have been retired after their work. These were very different methods, let's say, in 2016 it was a supplement of PLN 400 for pensioners depending on the amount of the benefit, in 2017 we raised the minimum pension by 13% from PLN 882 to PLN 1000, so the increase was really jumping, in 2019, and so this year, we applied a very important mechanism for which pensioners were waiting, i.e. a mechanism of quota-interest valorization which guaranteed 7 million pensioners a valorization of at least PLN 70, the remaining interest valorization which guaranteed this increase depending on the amount of the benefit. This is also the difference between what was applied in 2012 when 71 PLN of quota valorisation was proposed. At the time, some people were losing out on valorization. With our mechanism this year, no one lost, and those with the lowest benefits gained the most. This year we proposed this mechanism, this additional benefit to pensioners - almost PLN 10 billion - in the net amount of PLN 888,25. There's a question here about the manipulation of terms. So, ladies and gentlemen, deadlines are such as payment deadlines, which are respected and applied by the Social Insurance Institution. [[That's not true.]] Why May? Because in May we also have the most beautiful holiday, Mother's Day. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Our dear moms, those who are retired, will get this benefit. [[Applause]] And the next day we have Father's Day, our fathers will also receive this witness. [[Applause]] [[Father's Day is June 23rd.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is how it happened this year, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] that the holiday, which is every year, is imposed on the date of those elections which are less frequent. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Minister, the marshal has broken down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like this important day for Polish pensioners... [[Voice from the room: May 1st.]] ...because I have no doubt that he is important, he was not spoiled unnecessary, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] an overly turbulent debate. [[Minister, sit down. What's it gonna be for Christmas? Gifts?]] But some of you coming out here and throwing heavy guns against our government seem to have lost your memory because she says, "Why a supplement once a year?" You took something... I already said that yesterday, you got the answers, but today you stubbornly, with an iron consequence, asked the same questions. Then I ask you, what did you do with the money that was taken from OFE? It is about PLN 151 billion. [[Applause]] Where's the money? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u61	Calm down, please. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: Ladies and gentlemen, is it possible to say that we care so much about the Polish pensioner, since the Polish retired woman, who worked for a woman, wanted to extend your retirement age to 67 years by 7 years? [[Applause]] [[Until 2040.]] And the Polish farmers are 12 years old. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 12 years.]] As we do research and ask Poles, Polish women at the age of 55+, what is their greatest concern, the answer arises: the fear of health, so that we do not run out of strength to work. Poles want to work, but they can't always, because they're working, they've had years of hard work. We have given you a flexible solution that allows you to make an individual decision about whether you want to work, and that person decides for himself. We also bear the financial consequences of these decisions. So don't accuse us of forgetting older people, because that's simply not true. This is not supported by any facts. [[Applause]] But just so it's not that we're talking about a valorization mechanism, about tax issues because the tax-free amount has been increased. After all, the 3029 PLN, which was unchanged, I do not know, for 10 or even more years, was first raised to 6600 PLN, then to 8,000 PLN. zł. Those who have the lowest benefits benefited from this. But our social policy towards the elderly was even wider. I also talked about it yesterday. Thank you for this debate, I would first like to thank President Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Yeah, let's hear it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members chant: Jarosław! Jarosław! Jarosław!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this five, among these five proposals was the one for which millions of Polish pensioners were waiting. This is the proposal to receive additional support once a year. Believe me, during many conversations, as I said, the valorization is growing, that you are getting this minimum pension higher - and the minimum pension during the United Right Government has increased by 25%, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: How much is it?]] ...she grew from 882 PLN to 1100 PLN - that's when I heard: Minister, these are low benefits. And that's the truth. It's very difficult of this little benefit to raise a little more money to make small repairs, a gift, I don't know, for communion, to buy something bigger, a refrigerator, a washing machine, that kind of shopping. [[And go to Medjugorje, of course.]] [[Voice from the room: Do you know how much a washing machine costs?]] We very much appreciate this one-time support. That's where the proposal comes from. Ladies and gentlemen, because you have often talked about the fact that we do not remember those who have worked long, this time we have proposed a kind of support which was not social, not only for those with the lowest benefits. We said, you've worked 40 years, 30 years, you've got a higher witness, you're gonna get this thirteen, because that's what we call it. Only your situation is better, so you'll get the same amount as that person who has a lower benefit. I think that's a fair solution. That's a fair thing to do. [[Applause]] Finally, I will answer one of the Members who asked about the 13th. Thirteens are never and nowhere paid in December, sir. Thirteens have their payout schedule, and he's not different from our proposal. Thank you for your interministerial cooperation on this project. [[Voice from the hall: Labor Day.]] Thank you, Prime Minister, because he outlined a map that really required a lot of consequences from us, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you to all those who have cooperated. Thank you, too... [[Voice from the room: Minister...]] ... Because with all these doubts, I see that the vast majority pressed this button, which means you think this is a good solution for Polish pensioners and pensioners. That's what I think. [[There haven't been any votes yet.]] It's worth voting for. Thank you so much to my club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Mr. Marshal, a formal motion in writing.]] [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3342, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 396, against - 3 stopped 19. I state that the Sejm passed a one-off payment law for pensioners in 2019. [[Long-term applause]] [[Some Members get up and chant: Jarosław! Jarosław! Jarosław!]] Thank you. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion...]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Please accept the formal application.]] Mr Budka, I draw your attention. You're disturbing me right now in the proceedings of the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I have the right to make a formal request.]] [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] [[But what?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the request to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. 170 voted against - 233, 20 abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on Civil Records. [[Formal conclusion.]] The additional committee report shall be in print No 3333-A. Third reading. I would like to ask Edward Siarka to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs at its meeting yesterday considered the amendments tabled at the second reading to the draft law amending the law on population records. On behalf of the committee, I recommend rejecting all three amendments, with amendments 1 and 2 voting together and adopting the draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u63	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's a 3333 print. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the second amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Act on the Register of Populations of the applicant proposes to add Amendment 1 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 163, against - 229, 27 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment, applicants propose a different date for the entry into force of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 163, against - 229, 27 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Voting on the whole draft law. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 3333, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 281, against - 127, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Civil Records Act. Ladies and gentlemen, a formal request has been received that the sitting be adjourned until noon. 12. It is reported by Mr Boris Budka. [[Reason.]] [[Voice from the room: For what purpose?]] There you go. One minute to justify it. [[Too bad it's not 30 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This request to interrupt the meeting was made much earlier, asking me to explain to Minister Rafalska that it is not appropriate to lie in such an obvious, rude way from this speaker. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: It's not a lie.]] When we were doing the reform of open pension funds, each zloty on the individual account was in an individual account, only run by the Social Security Office. What you're talking about is one big lie. [[Applause]] In the meantime, what do you suggest? You want to take 25% of the Poles' savings for your propaganda and distribution. [[How?]] You want to steal 25% of your savings and put them in the Demographic Reserve Fund. Minister! You really shouldn't lie in such a rude way... [[Enough foaming. Sit down.]] ...because it taunts all the rules. I expect you to come out here and apologize to the Poles for these lies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u65	A formal application has been submitted. From a formal point of view, as the Rules of Procedure state in Article. 184, this request should be voted on. Although the case is already unfounded, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I will put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't yell. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But what?]] Who among you is in favour of ordering an adjournment until 3 p.m. 12, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 162, against - 251, holding down 6. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the government draft law on the submission of certain official documents in the Member States of the European Union. The additional report containing the only amendment is printing 3332-A. I would like to inform you that this amendment has been withdrawn. We proceed to the third reading. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3332. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 3332, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For -411, 5 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm has passed a law on the submission of certain official documents in the Member States of the European Union. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the repeal of the Act on the Extraction of Certain Copies and on the amendment of other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Bureau of the Sejm, sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application for rejection at first reading of the draft Print Act 2936, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 205, against - 215, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and the law on medicinal activities. The additional report shall be in print No 3348-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present to the High House an additional report from the Committee on the Government's draft amendment to the Pharmaceutical Law and the Act on Medicinal Activities, print No 3303. At its 79th meeting on 3 April 2019, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3348 to the Health Commission for consideration of the amendment tabled at second reading. The Health Commission, after considering the amendment at its meeting on 4 April 2019, requests the adoption by the High Sejm of the amendment and requests the adoption of the government draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u67	Please. Let me remind you, it's a 3348 print. The Commission is also putting forward a minority proposal and we will vote first on this minority proposal and the amendment. The minority proposal and the amendment were tabled to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Pharmaceutical Law Act. In the amendment, applicants propose to add point 4 in Article. 86a paragraph. 1. The Commission, I remind you, is asking for an amendment. The adoption of the amendment will render the minority proposal irrelevant. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 406, against -5, holding down 5. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The minority's motion is pointless. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3348, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 417, no one was against, there were two abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act and some other laws. We would like to return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the Private Prosecutor of Kinga Gajewska of 4 September 2018 to allow the Sejm to be held liable by Iwona Arent. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the criminal liability of Iwona Arent. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Iwona Arent. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the prosecutor's request for consent to the criminal liability of the Member, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 163, against - 243, the 8 stopped. The Sejm, in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes, adopted a resolution on the non-approval of the criminal liability of Iwona Arent for the act specified in the application of the private prosecutor Kinga Gajewska of 4 September 2018. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the memory of Józef Mehoffer on the 150th anniversary of his birth. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3336. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting a draft resolution on commemorating Joseph Mehoffer's 150th birthday anniversary, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 407, no one was against, no one stopped 3. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of Joseph Mehoffer on the 150th anniversary of his birth. We would like to return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 150th anniversary of Stanisław Wojciechowski's birth. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3339. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in full from print no. 3339, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For -408, 1 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating Stanisław Wojciechowski on the 150th anniversary of his birth. We proceed to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Second reading of the Commission's draft resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2018 (Austrian presidency in the Council of the European Union) (prints Nos 3234 and 3331) - voting. I would like to ask Mr Jan Dziedziczak to present an additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on European Union Affairs requests that the amendment be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u69	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's 3234. I will put the tabled amendment to the vote first. The amendment proposes that the Sejm reject the information of the Council of Ministers. Let me remind you that the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 167, against - 235, the 13. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The whole resolution. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in its entirety, print no.3234, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 262, against - 142, holding down 3. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2018 (the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union). We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Real Estate Management Act (Prints No. 3304 and 3328). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on 3 April considered the three amendments tabled in the Senate resolution of 22 March. All these amendments are very good, so we propose that they be adopted. They were adopted unanimously at the meeting of these two committees. So I suggest we vote red, which is against their rejection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u71	Thank you. For the sake of formalities, I would like to remind you that the Sejm rejects the amendments of the Senate by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 2 (2) 1 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to delete the words used for the first time in the wording of this Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. In - 4, against - 415, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 The Law amending the Senate proposes to replace the words used twice in different cases with the words "3 years" with the words "12 months." The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. In -2, against -414, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes a different wording of the article. 3rd Amending Act. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For--nobody, everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Senate Resolution on the Act on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities (Prints No. 3305 and 3327). I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, after considering this resolution, print No 3305, at its meeting on 2 April, asks the High Sejm to approve the amendments of the Senate 1, 3, 4, 7 and to reject amendments 2, 5 and 6. Amendments 3 and 4 should be put to the vote together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u73	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 1 The Senate, by adding point 4a, proposes to extend the scope of this law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 273, against - 144, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Point 2 (4) of the Senate proposes that this provision should apply to all associations of public bodies referred to in Article. Point 2 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For -3, against -399, holding 13. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 2a. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 3 and 4, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 408, against - 10, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 12 applicants propose to add point 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 5th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For -3, against -404, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 18 applicants propose to add paragraph. 9. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 6th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For -5 against - 409, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 26 The Senate proposes to amend the transitional provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendment 7 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 398, against - 12, 1 held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development (prints no. 3306 and 3334). I ask Mr Antoni Duda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, print No 3306. The Senate held its meeting on 21 March 2019 following consideration by the Sejm at its meeting on 22 February 2019. The law introduced four amendments. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development met at its meeting on 2 April at which it considered these amendments. The Commission recommends that the High Sejm accept all four amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u75	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. The Senate amendments from 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. In the first amendment to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1b second sentence, the Senate proposes to delete the words "in the meaning of the rules on business law." The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. In -3, against - 406, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 The Senate proposes a different wording of point 4 and the addition of paragraph 4. 5. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. In -2, against -411, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 6 other wording of point 2 and by adding a new amendment to Article. Article 6b (6) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 other wording of point 8 in the amended act. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. In -5 against -404, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 3rd Amending Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. In - 3, against - 416, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the promotion of scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund (prints no. 3307 and 3329). I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u76	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund. The report is contained in print No 3329. The joint committees at their meeting on 3 April considered the resolution and gave a positive opinion on the Senate amendment, print No 3307. The committees are asking the High Sejm to accept it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u77	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the amendment to the article. Paragraph 7 1 point 1 of the Senate proposes that this provision should apply to the Łukasiewicz Research Network - PORT of the Polish Centre for Technology Development. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. [[Question.]] The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been saying from the start that this bill is such a bed-to-bed. Prime Minister Gowin said it was about getting money for cancer research. But who was right? Mr Brynus was right. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, since 1 April of this year, and here is the justification, the head of the Research Network of Łukasiewicz became the master who made sure that the network of Łukasiewicz, first, had the shape that it had, i.e. he simply selected institutes specifically for this network, and secondly, he guaranteed himself a salary of about 65 thousand. Gross. Moreover, with regard to this law, he introduced a special amendment, for which Law and Justice voted, so that the Polish Science Fund would be supervised by the Łukasiewicz network. Ladies and gentlemen, is that what this is all about? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u79	The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a lot of doubt about this fund because it duplicates the tasks of the Medical Research Agency, which were not so long ago defined in the passed law. One fund will be subject to Minister Gowin, the other to Minister Szumowski. But I hear Minister Szumowski... Prime Minister! Prime Minister Morawiecki! [[Joy in the Chamber]] I hear you're firing Minister Szumowski next week. And it's not about the Medical Research Agency, which is supposed to be the boss, but because there are new issues related to the valuation of one of the cardiological procedures.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u81	Madam, but ask a question about the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u82	Prime Minister, is it true that next week - and not for the SORs, but for other things - you will throw Szumowski away? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[The Marshal disables the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u83	Madam, I draw your attention under Article. 175. You're not saying anything about it, so you're trying to make it harder on me. [[But the question was? It was.]] [[But not about what?]] I'm warning you, I won't tolerate that kind of expression. I would like to remind you that this amendment concerns the replacement of the words 'development and technology' by 'development of technology'. We're voting. Who among you is against the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. In - 3, against - 403, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws (Prints No. 3308 and 3343). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Public Finance Commission discussed the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws, print No 3308. The four Senate amendments were welcomed by the high committee. I recommend their adoption, which is a vote against rejection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u85	We shall vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the Tax Information Exchange Act with other countries. In the first amendment to Article. Paragraph 24 Point 1 of the Senate proposes the new wording of point 1. i. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 1, against - 406, has stopped 4. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Paragraph 24 1 point 25 (a) b The Senate proposes to delete the words on the list referred to in paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. In - 9, against - 403, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 6 of the Law amending the Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 1. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 3 and 4, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 1, 416 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the rules for determining the order of filling the seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019 and 2024 (prints Nos 3309 and 3325). I ask Mr Richard Bartosik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u86	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Report by the Extraordinary Commission to consider draft electoral law laws on the adoption of the Senate Act on the rules for determining the order in which Members of the European Parliament shall be filled. The Senate has approved three amendments. The Commission recommends adopting these three amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u87	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to add an article. 5a and 5b. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission, I remind you, is asking for their adoption. We're voting. Who among you is against amendments 1 to 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For -6, against - 286, holding 128. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor and certain other laws (Prints 3310 and 3338). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the Senate resolution at its meeting on 2 April, requests that all three amendments be accepted, i.e. it is against their rejection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u89	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. The 4th Law amending the Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. For - no one, against - 404. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes among others. delete point 1 of Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 amending act. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. In -2, against -411, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Point 9 (1) of the Law amending the Senate proposes that Article. The 5th Amendment Act entered into force 3 months after the date of the announcement. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad the Prime Minister isn't playing with his smartphone anymore, he's listening, because I have a question for you... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u91	Madam, I draw your attention... [[Voice from the room: About.]] ...to ask questions about the amendment, not to comment on the behavior of others. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Come on, man.]] This is the second time I've drawn your attention. Ask questions about the 3rd amendment. [[Marshal turns on the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u92	Prime Minister! We're talking about counseling... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Naughty.]] ...at this point... Wait a minute, wait a minute. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We're talking about a restructuring advisor. [[Voice from the hall: Something of your marshal's nerves bear.]] Has the Prime Minister spoken to his restructuring advisor and answered my question as to whether you were interested in... [[But there's an appointed minister...]] ...inaccuracies at the Ministry of Health and in the future... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u93	Madam, for the third time, I would like to draw your attention, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] that you are asking a question which is not related to the third amendment. Let me remind you that the third amendment is: in Article. 9 in point 1 after the words "Article." Points 2 and 3 and Article 1 shall be inserted. 5. [[Applause]] I would like to point out that you are in violation of the agenda at the moment, and that is under Article. 175 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: scandal, real scandal.]] We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal Red very much.]] 419 Members voted. For - 1, against - 417, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. And don't yell, just follow the rules. [[We're not in kindergarten.]] We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Appointment of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection (prints no. 3313 and 3337). High Izbo! According to Art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Personal Data Protection Act of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection shall appoint and revoke the Sejm with the consent of the Senate. The Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice nominated Jan Nowak as President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. I ask that Mrs Lydia Burzyńska speak in order to present the candidacy of Mr Jan Nowak made by Members of the Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present Mr Jan Nowak's candidacy as President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. Mr Jan Nowak was born on October 20, 1951 in Biała Podlaski. He graduated from the Faculty of Precision Mechanics of the Warsaw University of Technology and postgraduate studies of EMBA at the Higher School of Management in Warsaw. He started his professional career in 1976 at the PREDOM Research and Development Centre. He continued it in the following years, among others. in the Central Research Centre for Standardisation, in the Real Estate Management Department in the Central District of Mts. Warsaw and Elewarr, where he served as Vice President of the Management Board. Since January 2008, he has been acting as Director of the Office of the Inspector General for Personal Data Protection. During this period, he acted on behalf of the data protection authority, issuing administrative decisions and legislative opinions, initiating control activities, shaping opinions and positions on the protection of personal data. Since 25 May 2018, he has been the Director of the Office for Personal Data Protection. This is a time of intense work in the field of personal data protection and issues related to the implementation of the Data Protection Regulation - GDPR. As Director of the Office, he worked closely with the President of the Office to introduce new regulations on the protection of personal data and to create a structure of the Office adapted to the new challenges. He participated on behalf of the President of the Office in the work of the Sejm committees. Since 2002, i.e. since the five term of office, the councilman of the district Warsaw Wola m.st. Warsaw. As a representative of the voivodship, he supports the work of the Wolski Hospital. Dr. Anna Gostyńska in Warsaw, acting as a member of the social council. [[Voice from the room: No one knows.]] Rewarded many times. In 2008 awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński with a Gold Medal for Long Service. In 2017, awarded with the Honorary Badge for Merit for Local Government granted by the Minister of Home Affairs. The protection of personal data has been linked since 2008. These 11 years of work in the general inspection of personal data protection is undoubtedly the time when Mr Jan Nowak gained his practice and knowledge. It should be stressed that, in performing its professional duties and social functions, it is demonstrated with sound substantive knowledge, great commitment and responsibility. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The information provided indicates that Mr Jan Nowak fulfils the criteria provided for by the Act of 10 May 2018 on the protection of personal data provided by the legislator for the applicant for the position of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, and his knowledge and experience confirm that he will be responsible for fulfilling the duties of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u95	Please. Thank you, Member. About the candidacy... Excuse me, I would also like to ask the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Daniel Milewski. Please submit your opinion to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u96	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the proposal to appoint the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection and to hold a discussion at its meeting on 2 April 2019, decided to give a positive opinion on Mr Jan Nowak's candidacy. During the discussion, during a number of questions and answers, which the candidate gave comprehensively, special attention was paid to the fulfilment of the statutory conditions that the candidate for President should fulfil, as well as to his extensive experience as director of the inspector's office as from 2008 with subsequent presidents appointed by successive parliaments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u97	Thank you very much. Members have come forward to speak on the proposal. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jan Nowak, the candidate for President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, is an example of a very diligent and hardworking person who has been an employee since 2008 and has been a director in the office itself. I wish there were as many nominations as possible. He knows the office well, has been operating in it for years, deals with the budget, but he has also been involved in issuing administrative decisions under the authority of the President. I would also like to refer to the discussions that emerged at the committee meeting and, I believe, they will also appear among the opposition representatives. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today the processing of personal data already in a small part includes written and printed documents. Today it is mostly the turnover of personal data on the Internet, on portals, in databases. For this reason, it is absolutely not an obligation to have a lawyer in this position. On the contrary, as the examples of Germany and France show, there are people who do not really have legal education, but who have practice and are engineers. For example, in Germany it is a person who is a computer scientist, which is why Jan Nowak's candidacy is a great candidate for this position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u99	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The President of the Office for Personal Data Protection performs very important functions. It oversees the enforcement of personal data laws in public offices, political parties, media, companies, even religious unions. It can impose very high penalties up to EUR 20 million. He can apply to the D.A. and send checks. In a word, it is a function which has a very wide scope and supervision, and competence, and also a single-person punishment that can be imposed by a number of companies, many NGOs, many parties. Therefore, the requirements of European and European legislation and Polish legislation are very high on this issue. It's about who might include this function. As you know, a person who has to stand out in law school. We asked Mr Jan Nowak at the committee meeting how he could document his legal knowledge, whether he, a precision mechanic engineer, issued any legal opinions, or whether he had any legal articles. There are no articles, there are no opinions, there are no examples he has given us. The fact that he's been working at this office for 11 years as director, and dealing with administrative, budgetary, human resources... Even if it's done well... It's good for him, but it doesn't prove that he has the necessary legal requirements. And the second thing is extremely important: such a person must be politically independent. Meanwhile, we are dealing with a longtime councilman of PiS, who is currently acting in the highest bodies of PiS, namely a member of the PiS-college disciplinary court. How can such a person be independent and exercise his functions towards political parties, towards NGOs? The person who sits in the National Disciplinary Court of PiS. Well, for all these reasons, we don't think she's fulfilling it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the requirements of independence and legal knowledge, and we will not vote in favour of this candidacy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u101	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] especially since at the moment a large group of ladies from Górka Lubartowska in Lublin Voivodeship in regional costumes is listening to the discussions. [[Applause]] Vote for Member Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before you choose such an excellent candidacy as the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, I have a few things to say to the Sejm. Who played them? Who pushed the law on higher education that was harmful to Polish science? Who set up a law on the Łukasiewicz Research Network? Who became her director with a salary of up to 65 grand. A month's worth of zloty? Who set the criteria for the director so that he was the only one who could meet them? Who subordinated the Łukasiewicz network to the Polish Science Fund with a budget of PLN 500 million? Who? Ano Minister Piotr Dardziński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u103	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Mr Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the candidate for the position of President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. [[Marshal, is this the Sejm or what is it? The Prime Minister is playing with his smartphone.]] [[Mr Iwona Sledzińska-Katarasinska: Mr Marshal, look.]] High Izbo! The President of the Office for Personal Data Protection has a very important role, taking into account constitutional issues, but also defined in the Personal Data Protection Act. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] This selection process should therefore be carried out with particular care. On the other hand, the only area in which this particular care has been maintained is, firstly, the concealment of relevant information about the candidate, secondly, the conduct of the committee by Mr Piotrowicz in such a way that he does not accidentally ask too many questions and that the candidate does not answer too, I would say, broadly to these questions. We're judging this in a very negative way. The candidate himself, of course, works at the Personal Data Protection Office, but it is difficult to recognise that this is the experience of the director of the office, which is related to ensuring the conditions of operation, organisation of work or the determination of the number of posts, gives the guarantee of having the necessary knowledge and experience in the field of personal data protection. And this was also not explained in any way during the committee. On the other hand, an extremely important element that does not fulfil this condition of independence is the fact that the candidate has been a member of Law and Justice for many, many years and, moreover, is responsible for party discipline. You want your party commissioner to put the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection into office so that this President of the Office creates the conditions that will allow all those who process personal data to be kept in check. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is unacceptable, and we're not gonna let that happen. This could be a violation of the law... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u105	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, or we will vote. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, appoints the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data by an absolute majority. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of choosing Mr Jan Nowak as President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. The absolute majority is 199. For - 221, against - 171, 4 stopped. I state that the Sejm has chosen Mr Jan Nowak as President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 3359). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 137 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Any of you... Mr Richard Terlecki. It's a formal conclusion, isn't it? The one in writing?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Formal request for a separate vote on changes in the parliamentary committees. [[What separate ones?]] [[Mr. Marshal, the motion is against your Marshal's motion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u107	It's against the law. There you go. [[Voice from the hall: Ask, Boris, about this handwriting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u108	Thank you very much, Marshal. First of all, we make formal requests in writing. It's worth it for everyone to be treated equally. Secondly, I submit a motion against Mr Terletki's request because once again you are breaking the fundamental principles of parliamentarianism. [[It is in writing, sir.]] Once again, you are trying to prevent opposition representatives from having representatives in committees, in accordance with the parities in force in the Sejm. The best example of this was yesterday's vote in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Since November there has been a vacancy at the committee bureau after the representative of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. And what are you doing? You vote for PiS to eliminate even normal parliamentary rules that have so far been irrefutable. That's exactly what the Marshal's motion is going for. No, you absolutely don't even apply. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to these basic rules. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u109	Thank you, sir. [[Corrigendum.]] As corrected by Mr Ryszard Terlecki. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Firstly, the request was made in writing, and secondly, we are not violating quotas. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[No, of course not.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u111	Yes, I confirm that the request has been made in writing, and much earlier, ladies and gentlemen, as required by the Rules of Procedure. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Last year.]] [[Well, at least tell me what committees you're splitting up.]] So don't repeat lying or untested information. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But what is the conclusion?]] There has been a request for a separate vote on the proposal to change the personal composition of the Commission for Special Services. And I will put this proposal to the vote. We are voting on changes in the membership of the Special Services Committee. Who among you is in favour of changing the composition of this committee, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Formal conclusion.]] [[Voice in the Chamber: But the formal proposal was not put to the vote.]] [[Formal conclusion.]] [[Mr. Marshal is losing his way.]] [[Voice from the room: First formal application.]] That's what I said. [[Voice from the room: No.]] There is a formal proposal and I will put this proposal to the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, a proposal has been tabled for a separate vote on the proposal. [[Voice in the Chamber: What about voting on these rules?]] Then listen to me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: One more time.]] [[Voice in the Chamber: Put to the vote.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, a proposal has been tabled for a separate vote on the proposal to change the personal composition of the Special Services Commission. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Formal conclusion. [[Mr. Marshal, we've already voted. You're interrupting the vote.]] Then listen. [[But we voted on something else. You have no control over the situation.]] Sir, please... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I will put a formal motion to the vote. [[No, because we've already voted to change the committee. Put it on display because you voted.]] Mr Meysztowicz, please do not disturb me. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal, I would remind you, the formal proposal which was tabled by Marshal Terletki, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. Za - 244, against - 169, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are voting on changes in the membership of the Special Services Committee. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of changing the composition of this committee, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 130, against - 274, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the offer. We proceed with the vote on the full proposal of the Sejm Bureau on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Who of you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 3359 excluding the change in the membership of the Special Services Commission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For -381, against -15, holding off on 11. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 41 hours 11 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. An additional question may not last more than 1 minute. The supplementary response may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I would ask you very much to close the door. There's a lot of noise. The first question is asked by Barbara Dziuk, Elżbieta Duda and Krzysztof Kubów from the Law and Justice Club. The question concerns the renewal by the Minister of the Environment of the GreenEvo programme - a green technology accelerator, which supports the promotion of Polish innovative environmental technologies abroad. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! GreenEvo - green technology accelerator is an innovative program of the Ministry of Environment, which aims to promote Polish green technologies by supporting them both in Poland and abroad. This includes, among others, Technology areas such as renewable energy sources, technologies supporting energy saving and waste management, water and sewage technologies, climate-friendly solutions and environmentally friendly solutions for the extractive industry. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: What technological scope will the programme cover? We know it's been resumed. What is the estimated cost of its implementation? We know that among the winners of the previous edition were authors of such interesting solutions as among others. lake remediation technology, environmental technologies, ozone systems for water purification and street lighting control systems. These are very interesting proposals for an innovative economy. I have a question: How will the Ministry support interesting solutions for an innovative economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u113	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Minister Sławomir Mazurk for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In 2018, we resumed the programme of the Minister of Environment, the GreenEvo - a green technology accelerator. The programme helps Polish entrepreneurs offering green technologies to develop their business and promote these technologies abroad. This transfer is extremely important. It is necessary to show the achievements of Polish entrepreneurs, who often cooperate with the science sector. That's how we contribute to them. only to shape sustainable development, also on a global scale, but we also show Polish achievements in this field. The programme may include stakeholders who develop technologies from the following areas: water and sewage management, energy saving, air protection, renewable energy sources, waste management, biodiversity conservation. The cost of implementing the GreenEvo programme in the years 2018 to 2020 will be over PLN 5 million. The programme is financed by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management from the special reserve under item 59. Each edition of the programme consists of three main stages: recruitment, verification and selection of modern environmental technologies, training to prepare entrepreneurs for effective activity in foreign markets and the organisation of an economic mission. The seventh edition of the program, which is addressed to the winners of previous editions, is currently underway. This is to update business data and how they functioned on the market. During the operation of this programme, there was a significant increase in turnover in the entities that participated in it and an increase in exports by up to half. The return to this programme is therefore absolutely justified. When it comes to our actions and subsequent recruitments, we will implement them within the next two years, drawing on the experience gained by the current winners. It is worth noting that all the winners, regardless of the level of development of their company, pointed to the benefits of participating in this project. They pointed to the possibility of gaining practical knowledge about export issues, valuable contacts with foreign partners and with public entities offering export support, as well as in the development of business activities, the possibility of exchanging experiences with other entrepreneurs and synergies of activities, access to markets where there are strong entry barriers. Here we see a need for backup. We will implement this together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the units appointed to promote the Polish economy. Entrepreneurs also pointed to increasing the credibility and confidence of foreign entrepreneurs in promoting technology and building the GreenEvo brand, which is known not only in Poland but also abroad. I experienced this during one of my visits to India during the climate and energy congress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your information, but I would also like to clarify what the Ministry has available instruments to support this wonderful project. As the Minister stressed, this is already a brand known all over the world. As you see here, the Minister sees the emphasis on credibility, trust, because we know that Western companies are somehow questioning what we see in various media information, and does the Ministry counteract situations that could somehow harm the best brand we have in the form of GreenEvo? And I would still be very interested in specialized training, whether or not they are included in this project. And, uh... [[♪ The bell ♪]] are there solutions that help protect the environment in a more efficient way related to this brand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u117	Thank you very much, Member. And I ask Minister Sławomir Mazurk to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Member! Of course, from the training side we are preparing a whole package of assignments where entrepreneurs will learn about the latest technologies for promoting trade, for building a strong brand, not only the GreenEvo brand, but also the brands of their companies, in the areas of their sectoral activities, in those areas where they want to be active, where their customers are targeted and where this project can grow and reach the right ground. We are also making a diagnosis to support them in this area as well. However, the issue of culture, economic culture, the legal culture that is in force there is also very important at the entry barrier. Here, too, we are helping to ensure that these companies do not have certain barriers that arise sometimes when they occur themselves or because of the scale of their activities, because they are often not big companies, but small and medium-sized enterprises, which have very interesting technologies. You can say that these are often entities that have already gone beyond start-ups, have a very interesting technology that they want to share, so they want to expand their business and increase their turnover. When it comes to countering negative phenomena that might arise due to an attempt to avoid competition, we try to lead these companies in this way, using the available knowledge on the market, the available knowledge of the economic intelligence offices or our facilities abroad, in order to reach the relevant stakeholders in each country with full knowledge, to actually scale the events that are to accompany it, the business missions. We also want to use this synergy as part of a non-resort approach, and a holistic approach that we are trying to apply in the Polish government, in such a way as to exploit this potential - of course, it is about the Minister of the Environment - the potential of these innovations that are implemented in these technologies in order to reach, inform, but also monitor and respond promptly to possible negative phenomena. We want to act not reactively, but very actively, so as to give these entrepreneurs a chance to improve their development indicators, as in previous editions, while at the same time promoting these technologies, not only the GreenEvo brand, but also other good Polish products and Polish innovations, all over the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Paweł Olszewski and Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, on the so-called. The Podkarpackie scandal. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Olszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u120	Welcome. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Recently, the media has confused appalling information about the situation that was to take place in Podkarpacie and is to be linked to the Law and Justice policy and to the attempt, colloquially speaking, to twist the case by the Central Anti-Corruption Office so that it does not see the light of day. It is so important that, in this state of affairs, if these allegations, and there is an official notice to the prosecution to confirm, we are dealing with a case in which one of the special services tries to cover up an important situation from the point of view of the camp of power without taking action to clarify the matter and, above all, to ensure that it does not see the light of day. That's why we have a number of questions. First of all, did the report in which this officer points to irregularities in the Central Anti-corruption Office go to the Prime Minister's office and to the President of the Moravian Council of Ministers? If he's hit, what's he done with him? If he missed, why wasn't he delivered? Has the case been referred by the CBA to the prosecutor's office to clarify the possibility of committing a crime in this case, which was described extensively by the former officer and, if not initiated, addressed such a notification, why, and whether there was an internal investigation in this case, and if so, when it was initiated and what direct conclusions were received from it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u121	Thank you very much. The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Maciej Wąsik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have this dissonance because the questions that entered the Prime Minister's firm are about the Podkarpackie scandal. The Podkarpacka affair is a team of criminal activities in the years 2000 to 2014 which were revealed by the Central Anti-corruption Office. At the moment there are 11 investigations, 68 suspects, 176 charges were filed. Among those who have been charged are Jan B., Member of the Sejm, Deputy Minister of Treasury in the Government of Donald Tusk, accused of accepting, I apologize, suspected of accepting 1,200 thousand. Zł bribes, Anna H., former A.D.A. in Rzeszów, who was accused of accepting 177 thousand. Zloty bribes, not so long ago the sentence at first instance six years in prison... [[Minister, that's not what we're asking...]] Excuse me, sir, if you wouldn't mind... I got a question in writing, you're asking about the subcarpathian scandal. The Podkarpackie affair is also an extortion of grants from PARP, NCBiR, Podkarpackie Voivodeship, extortion or attempted extortion of 100 million PLN. That's what you have to remember. And it's a subcarpathian thing. I said I had this dissonance because the questions you're asking from the courtroom sound different than those that came in writing, but I'll also answer those that you're asking from the courtroom. Well, here's the thing. The case you're talking about has come from the release by the media of Agent Wojciech J.'s memo, which suggests that he was offered a corrupt offer in exchange for handing over or not exposing material that compromises a certain policy. Of course, the Central Bureau of Corruption has taken internal action in this case, of course it has notified the prosecution. And what is the result of this course of action? Wojciech J. served in the CBA from May 2016 to May 2018. I will remind you that the memo is dated to April 2018. He never recorded any materials in electronic form in the form of discs during his service at the CBA. There is no document and proof that he has obtained any recordings and that he has registered them as CBA classified material. In August 2017, Wojciech J. CBA initiated an investigation, i.e. it automatically lost access to classified information during the proceedings. In April 2018, when Wojciech J. wrote a memo, it was generally concluded that he would not obtain a security clearance that he would not have access to classified information and that he would leave the service, what was happening in May 2018. And I take this note as a kind of blackmail to the head of the CBA. Look what I've got, I can expose it, and if I'm off the force, I'm gonna expose it. This happened after a few months or almost a year. Wojciech J.'s closets, where he held classified materials, were opened in the commission, in the minutes. The Commission consisted of four persons. They didn't find any records, no recordings. Interestingly, Wojciech J. did not comment on the protocol for opening his wardrobe, then made reservations after many months in this case, but in fact after the fact. During these activities, he did not submit any comments. And one more thing, extremely important. Well, the CBA initiated an investigation into Wojciech J., because he withheld the fact that he was psychiatric in the recruitment process. He was psychiatric between 2012 and 2016, among others. he was fired from a psychiatrist's job - more than 100 days' dismissal. Disclosure of such a fact shall not result in the provision of a security clearance. And I would also like to say to the Members that we have examined whether the CBA has examined all the circumstances of the case by asking other services to do so. Well, in this memo is a person who could confirm the version of events or facts that Wojciech J. presented in the memo. Imagine that the person to whom the Home Office took action, because he was a person from another service, both categorically and repeatedly denied any knowledge about the recording that he knew that such recording was, and she denied her own knowledge about the corruption proposal that Wojciech J. would receive. I will add, finally, that Mr. Wojciech J. was legally convicted in January 2019 for defaming the Polish Army soldier as a colonel. In January 2019 Wojciech J. was not a CBA officer, Mr J. So this is a fresh case, which came from a private indictment. If you could not interrupt me, I would be very grateful, Mr Kierwiński. I would also like to add that the CBA's management has notified that Wojciech J has committed a crime. It's about testifying falsely in documents - that's the first thing. And the other thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the filing of a report of a crime that hasn't been committed... [[Haven't you checked him out before?]] ...that's art. 271, 234 Penal Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u123	Thank you, Minister. I would ask you to ask Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for these partial answers, but what you're saying is really unclear. Because tell me if Mr. Wojciech J. had access to all CBA databases and other services, access to CEZOP. Was he rewarded by his superiors? Did he have high grades at that time? How did you check out this man before you hired him to serve if he was psychiatric and you didn't know that? That means you've got a complete mess about recruiting. And now, or when you took the materials out of... What did you take out of the armored money where he had his materials? Could Wojciech J. blackmail high officials, including the Marshal of the Sejm or others, with recordings? Do you suspect [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this a situation like this, or could it have happened? When you filed a notice with the D.A. or after the press release, did you file it earlier? And why didn't you give this report to the Prime Minister, possibly, or give it to him, and with what opinion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u125	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm starting from the end. There's no way a CBA officer is writing a report to the Prime Minister. He can write a report to... [[But anyone can, anyone can.]] ...the CBA Chief, if the matter concerns the superiors directly, the law regulates it. Any citizen may, however, submit a letter to the President of the Council of Ministers in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. I don't know if Wojciech J. did it or not. Probably this report wasn't actually for the Prime Minister, but it was forwarded to Ernest Bejda. In my opinion, this was an element of pressure on the head of the CBA of Wojciech J. The pressure was ineffective. You asked for access to the databases. This officer had access to all data available to CBA officers during the period when he had a security clearance. [[Voice from the room: Everyone?]] I would like to say that I talked about 2 years of his service, but out of these 2 years he has worked 9 months in fact, because it is necessary to deduct the sick leave, leave and period during which he was at the disposal of the chief, i.e. since August 2017. Unfortunately, I don't know the grade of his work. He was brought into action, where, among other things, he was led to do so. the data was withheld during the recruitment process. But I know there were other charges against his work, which ended with his discharge. I would also like to say that he did not come to CBA with a civilian, he was an officer of the Polish Army. So it wasn't CBA that he was psychiatric, but before that. That's the information he kept from us. Neither did the previous servants have any consequences. Before the Polish Army he was an officer in the Border Guard. He worked in the service for many years. Mr. Speaker! I can tell you what my assessment of this situation is. My assessment is that there never was a recording, it was invented by Wojciech J. for the purpose of not leaving the service in a perfidious, lying and ugly manner. That notice only went to the prosecution when Wojciech J. filed a notice with the prosecution. On the other hand, I know that the information that he was falsifying his work records was earlier and was prepared for such a notification. They were also extended to false notice to the D.A.'s office. In my opinion, there's never been such a recording, there's no recording, there's no recording, there's no recording. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u127	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! If I could, I would say one more sentence, because the Minister said a very important thing. I'd like to ask you that. Minister! This officer we're talking about, J., through the head of the CBA, sent the report to the Prime Minister. Did this report go to the Prime Minister? Did Minister Bejda send this report, or didn't he send this report?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u129	Thank you very much, sir. [[What mode was that in?]] [[None.]] The marshal might let you ask. I'm asking you to calm down. Please, do you want to answer that question again? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: No.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on to the third question. The third question is asked by Agnieszka Ścigaj, Barbara Chrobak, Józef Brynkus and Maciej Masławski, Kukiz.15, on a 20% reduction in PFRON's grant to conduct therapeutic classrooms for children with intellectual disabilities. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Agnieszka Chasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u130	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My question is, as it is stated in writing, the issue of reducing the grant given to therapeutic classrooms, which have been conducted for many years for children with intellectual disabilities aged between 8 and 26. As for the example, this directly affected our offices from the therapy centers of Brother Albert's Foundation, where for 18 years these cemeteries have been run and there are 185 children with intellectual disabilities. The state has reduced the grant for this year by 700,000, which will absolutely lead to a situation in which these skylights will have to be closed, because there are people working there who are already earning the lowest national income. What is the reason why such a permanent task, which has been carried out for 18 years and is carried out in small towns, where these skylights actually create large communities of children, parents who provide support, the possibility of developing in places where there really are no other possibilities, because these are especially rural facilities... What is the justification that you have reduced this grant? I don't know if the Minister knows, but these skylights may not be loud, because they can't bring apples or other elements here to Warsaw, they don't have anything to come to, but they're on strike. There's a strike there all the time, and these people are asking for it because they know that if you don't get that grant back, it's just gonna shut down those skylights. I would like to know if you intend to support these facilities in any other way. Do you really want me to say this on the example of Brother Albert's Foundation, but there are other facilities like this - exactly nine skylights have disappeared and these children have lost the opportunity they've had for 18 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u131	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you for the question. Of course, we all know how big and good NGOs do. Of course, we all have their best interests at heart, so that without special problems they can carry out activities especially with regard to children with disabilities. However, of course, you know very well that PFRON does not grant grants to non-governmental organisations. The Member also knows that no subsidy can be limited and the Member knows very well that the PFRON financial plan is adopted together with the budget by the High House, among other things. by the Member. On the other hand, as far as details are concerned, because this is probably the most important one, we have an article on PFRON, of course. 36, which refers to the assignment of tasks to PFRON, non-governmental organisations. This takes place in the form of competitions. In fact, these competitions are one of the most important issues for PFRON. The third item in the PFRON budget includes money for competitions for NGOs and cooperation with NGOs. Of course, she also knows that we are trying to ensure that this support for NGOs is as high as possible, although - and I do not hide it, I recommend to you that the law on family support and foster care - day support facilities, including all kinds of fireplaces, be carried out as a task for the commune, and they can also be carried out as a task above-level by districts, which can be commissioned by NGOs, and in fact as a task of the commune it is certainly more stable than in the case of PFRON competitions, which, of course, take place in the same way as all competitions in which you have certainly taken part in previous activities. There is a contest, there are two experts selected, there is the rules of the contest. Since 2015, there has been a great interest in these competitions. In 2015, 178 million were allocated to support NGOs, which is currently 240 million, and we have increased the amount to 240 million. For the contest you're looking for, that's the pn contest. The opportunity - Development - Independence, as part of this financial plan, provides for PLN 100 million. We've increased this amount to 177 million. The funding received 508 applications. In total, we supported 144 156 children, people with disabilities. The number of applications submitted in the current competition was record-breaking, e.g. 394 organisations applied to the previous competition in 2018 and this year there were 543 organisations. 782 applications were submitted, a year ago they were 610, so of course there is progress and we are grateful that NGOs are so interested in implementing programmes from the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. The last thing that seems to be most important is, of course, that we have tried to involve as many organisations as possible in these tasks. This is of course the result of the fact that the amounts that have been proposed to organisations are slightly lower, while 80% which you speak of is not 100%... More has been requested, and as far as 80% is concerned, the costs of carrying out the task were considered justified after the expert assessment. The aim is to increase the number of organisations here and to support people with disabilities more. So this amount was reduced so that there would be more of these organizations. As I said, we did not take 20% of the 100 million, or the other way around: we spent 177 million. On the other hand, I think the most important thing is something else. The organisations have been informed that we are trying to move funds, we are trying to make savings, and we have already asked the Minister of Finance to increase the amount of funds provided for these competitions precisely by 31,971 thousand, which will allow funding for all projects. In addition to those that have already received funding, we want financial resources to be given to all projects that have been positively assessed, all of which are on the reserve list. We want the support level to be higher. Organizations know that. Of course, we want children who have been supported or can be supported to be supported, and of course to be supported. As I am saying, at the moment, the proposal is with the Minister of Finance, it will be in the finance committee in a moment, and it will depend on Members to gain a positive opinion and whether it will be possible to make savings that have been made after 3 months to support NGOs. I recommend to the Members of the Committee on Finance that the 15th session be held. I hope that this request for a transfer of funds will be placed on the committee's agenda at the next meeting and will receive a positive recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u133	Thank you very much. The second question is asked by Barbara Chrobak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You say in public space that PFRON received 20 billion more. I would like to ask the Minister what these funds have been transferred to. I would also like to point out that you talk so often about the welfare of your child. What is the child's welfare? This is where you reduce your resources. The Minister said you'd do your best to apply for an increase in the amount to make these cemeteries work. So first you're reducing resources and then you want to get extra money, I don't know, from the state budget? I'm pointing out that these skylights have been around for 18 years now. What was the reason for reducing these measures? First of all, it's about children. Like my friend said, it could lead to these fireplaces being locked up. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So what? Do we want these kids locked up in our homes? We want them not to come out of these houses, so they don't have those skylights, they don't have a place to stay and grow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u135	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Member has mixed it up a little bit. The entire PFRON budget is PLN 5.5 billion, so it is difficult for him to get an additional PLN 20 billion. In addition, PFRON cannot receive money; it has only money from employers' contributions and from a budget subsidy, which is guaranteed every year in the budget resolution adopted by the Sejm. I wasn't talking about a reduction, I was talking about an increase. The competition - opportunity for development - independence, was planned to amount to PLN 100 million. We have already spent PLN 177 million and we want to move more than PLN 31 million so that all organizations that have launched this competition can provide this assistance. Another thing to remember: in addition to the funds that PFRON directly transmits as part of the competitions... Contests, especially for local tasks concerning local residents of a given local community, can also be organised by local authorities. Art. The 36th Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation allows local governments from PFRON funds to support NGOs, organise competitions, decide them and transfer funds to organisations. Let me remind you that for the first time this year PFRON will transfer over PLN 1 044 700 thousand to local governments, regional government and district government. zł. That's an increase of 108.4%. compared to the previous year. This money goes to local governments and it's up to local governments to organize competitions or just finance them. [[...you can pass on to these fireplaces...]] They'll finance it, they can finance it. The last thing you should remember, too, is that this Sejm, this High House, has allowed us all, through the 1% we can now pass on, support NGOs. This House has adopted the Civil Initiative Fund programme, which continues to exist and supports NGOs. This House also allows many tasks to be financed by entrusting or commissioning them to non-governmental organisations. It is worth remembering that there are very many NGOs - 147 thousand. In 2018, 25% of them support sick or disabled people. 39%, when it comes to these organisations, about budgets, about funding these organisations, are public funds. So to accuse anyone, Members and this House that they are giving too little money... [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can also within 1% participate in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u137	Thank you. In the procedure of correcting Ms Agnieszka Chasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I know a range of opportunities for NGOs, I know where they can draw money - not for themselves. I want to remind you that NGOs don't have money and they don't do it for themselves. They're doing your job. Support for children, people with disabilities is your job. I don't understand how you're talking about other organizations getting paid. It's a priority when it comes to tasks. The task is carried out 18 years and concerns children who really need support. Suddenly it is said that elsewhere another organization will get funds e.g. to organize a drawing contest, there are also such tasks. This competition can be abandoned, while a permanent support facility that has jobs that runs the entire infrastructure can really not be. I don't understand why this time, after 18 years, experts thought that these facilities needed less money, that the proposal was worse or that they were doing bad business. Those reasons... Yes, I know all these sources, we can transfer funds to organizations, but don't move. [[♪ The bell ♪]] tasks, because your job and your function is to take care of people with disabilities at the same level as those NGOs. You two are in the same line.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u139	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u140	I'm talking about this specific task, a permanent task, not to get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u141	Thank you very much, Member. We'll proceed with the next question. The question is asked by Members Jan Łopata and Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, on the deteriorating financial situation of hospitals, especially oncology facilities, and dramatic events in hospital emergency units. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Mr Jan Łopata is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In recent weeks we have once again reported, using the formula of parliamentary work, a very painful problem concerning the functioning of the health system in Poland. The standards of employment of nurses led to the universal erasing of hospital beds. The idea was to meet these standards. Now, literally in the last few days, we're watching a very special protest from county hospitals. I say: unique, because in one row both directors, managers, managers and staff stand and protest. Everyone finally realized that this was some sort of systemic government action, even the liquidation of district health services. I know these are strong words, but how do I explain the underfunding of about PLN 500.600 million a year? As one of the banners proclaimed, our hospitals are slowly dying. And the representatives of the Ministry of Health say that the dialogue continues and will continue and that they need to analyse the situation that this is a conversation about great numbers. We all know we're talking about big money. Minister! What is your assessment of the operation of hospital emergency services? It's a horror movie. Waiting time... And recently there have been very drastic, fatal accidents in Silesia, in Silesian health care. Hence our questions and our request for intervention. What is the cause of these tragic events in hospital emergency services? What solutions does the Ministry intend to introduce to improve patients' situation, in particular oncology? When will a proper hospital financing system be put in place and the contracting of medical benefits at levels guaranteeing the cost of providing them? County hospital directors say it's up 15%. In some way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it would balance these additional expenditures which have been charged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u143	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Maciej Miłkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u144	Thank you very much for these questions. The first concerned the situation of county hospitals. In fact, we have recently met with county hospitals, and earlier the Ministry of Health and the National Health Fund have always talked to county hospitals. Recently, these discussions have been able to set priorities and major changes in the valuation of health services. They were not as high as healthcare providers, as hospital directors expected, but very important. This is about 685 million benefits allocated from the increase in the valuation of benefits in the field of internal diseases and general surgery. These are those benefits that most often occur in hospitals at the first and second levels of reference. They most often occur in county hospitals and that's why we've focused growth in this area. We went in this direction because many internal disease benefits have not yet been valued by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification. Internal diseases fall within the scope in which we have observed - and it is still apparent - that these benefits are not implemented by non-public entities, by emerging small hospitals, by non-public health establishments. These are benefits that are not willingly contracted by other entities. It is about benefits, which are very often granted in an emergency mode. People are imported as life-saving benefits and care is provided in the hospital and patients are treated in this regard. As far as hospital emergency services are concerned, there has actually been a situation recently that there have been some dramatic events in Silesia related to the deaths of patients. This situation shouldn't have happened. We've set up a control team that analyzes in detail the entire treatment process, the whole process. The two cases that are presented here are most visible. A case in Sosnowiec and a second case. These are two completely different cases. In one case, it's the emergency room and the patient's long-diagnosed condition. In this respect, the committee set up by the voivode and by the Ministry of Health analyses the different stages of treatment and will draw conclusions. The second case relates to an important element of medical transport, emergency services, the organisation of a health system and cooperation between hospitals. This situation is completely different. But this is the system... These are problems that are often reported to the Ministry of Health, and therefore will be intensively amended in this direction. First thing since April 1st this year. the medical emergency system has been made public. It will be introduced - it has also been agreed - that when the patient is in hospital, for example. He's in a mental hospital and has a heart attack, he needs emergency care, and he's gonna be able to get a system ambulance in an emergency, fast, life-saving mode. These ambulances will always be able to go to hospital facilities and transport the patient to the right hospital. Of course, the ambulance is bound to bring the patient to the nearest hospital, and we're still working on it. It's about the right system, which means that this hospital, which has an invasive cardiology department, this hospital that has a trauma surgery department, this hospital that is the most appropriate for the patient's health, should be chosen in a given situation. E.g. the patient must go where it is most needed, i.e. to a hospital which provides three levels of reference care in the field of gynecology and obstetrics. A tender for the IT system for hospital emergency services will be launched today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We plan that the system will operate at the latest on 1 October in every hospital emergency unit. We will have information on how the patient is being looked after, how long it takes from the patient's arrival to the patient's proper assistance and transfer him to the appropriate department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u145	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u146	Thank you very much. Minister! This situation does not concern two SORs, these are not two cases. This is what we deal with every day. Believe me, we're not taking the floor to tease you to further harm your health care. People die in the S.O.R. This is a people's finishing room. I have a number of such interventions. As a Member, I am not here to deal with these matters. I'm powerless. I'm calling the principal and asking what's going on. An example of one of the county hospitals, I'm not going to name it on purpose. The loud opening of something that's on the front page of the papers. The minister's coming, he's celebrating, he's sprinkling, there's MPs, everybody's here. After this question has been raised, one of the patients from this area, from this hospital, is calling me: Mr, save me, help me, because I can't get to the gastology in this hospital. I'm supposed to go to an oncology facility next door, also a county hospital. Help me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm calling the director of this hospital where these facilities were opened two days earlier. He tells me: Mr, what should I do? I don't have men, I don't have money. I'm not a miracle worker. Those are the answers. Minister! Do something, save something, because these meetings of yours, consulting doesn't do anything. Really, the situation is getting more dramatic every day. Help save lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u147	Thank you very much, sir. Are you going to say anything? Once again, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u148	The first thing, too, I think there's really a lot to be done and there's a lot to be done. I do not deny that the situation in the life-saving scheme, i.e. the waiting mode in the SORs, is inappropriate. It's taking too long. The important thing is that we don't have full information about how long patients wait, how they are, how this time affects the degree of treatment of patients. As far as the second situation is concerned, the scheduled procedure is concerned, patients are generally not accepted in Poland on the scheduled day of the reception, only expected, there is a waiting list. The whole procedure is this: the patient reports to the hospital, is registered to the waiting list. The information about the waiting time, the expected waiting time, has on the websites. This information can be obtained in any voivodship and in any hospital. He can choose the hospital he wants. As far as queues are concerned, this is done as a matter of urgency, stable, depending on the patient's condition. So it's so organized. The hospital has a contract. Of course, he is obliged to perform life-saving benefits first. It's about benefits when it comes to bringing in ambulances, reception in the E.R. or by a hospital emergency unit in life-saving mode. This is about a patient who has been admitted and has not been sent back to a scheduled mode or to basic healthcare. In the case of scheduled benefits, there is a normal waiting list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u149	Thank you very much. In corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! A hint to the Minister, because the Minister said he didn't know what the SOR queues were like. Instead of driving around and campaigning, get in the cars, you've got so many cars. On one day you can tour half the voivodship, stop by one, the other, the third hospital, ask what is the queue, how many days are waiting. It's simple. This ministry doesn't know what the S.O.R. queues are like? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u151	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. The question is asked by Members Teresa Wargock, Bernadette Krynicka and Anita Czerwińska, the Law and Justice Club, on the level of financing for health care in 2019. The question is asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u152	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Government of Law and Justice attaches great importance to ensuring a high level of health care for Poles. I think that increasing expenditure on health care in recent years in many segments is beginning to be felt by patients. I would like to recall those decisions of the government that involved additional funds for cataract surgery or endoprothesis implantation. Not long ago, the Minister announced a very important decision in the area of exemption from the limits of CT scans and magnetic resonance imaging. I think we are all aware that the reality of 2019, the reality of the double electoral campaign, is that opposition Members are trying to create a very black, dark picture of health services. [[Member, for God's sake...]] Mr. Speaker! I had to refer to your speech because it will really happen in a moment that you will judge the Minister and the Prime Minister for any bad decision of the hospital director or inappropriate ethical attitude of the doctor. This is ridiculous. You know what the division of competences, organization and responsibility is like. Here in the High Sejm, we can talk about the responsibility of the government, the Sejm, but not about the responsibility of private employees in individual individuals. In the media area, it has recently been because of Members of the opposition that there is a financial collapse in the health service. I've recently read the press articles about the fact that the law is not being implemented. [[♪ The bell ♪]] prepared by the PiS government, guaranteeing an increase in healthcare expenditure of up to 6%. Minister, how the expenditure on health care has increased in the years of the rule of law and justice, and what decisions will be made for future years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u153	Thank you very much, Member. And I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr. Sławomir Gadomski for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u154	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you very much for this question, because in fact, in the media and political discussion recently there has been much talk about a decrease in expenditure, the supposed 10 billion PLN, which the government has taken away from Polish patients - I stress, the supposed 10 billion PLN. So perhaps this is where we should give a transparent answer to the question of what these outlays look like. This will in a sense repeat the response from the debate in the Sejm during the work on the Budget Act, because it has already been specified there, what the expenditure on health care looks like in 2019 and how they grew in relation to 2018 and earlier years, but I will gladly repeat it again. Thus, according to the budget law for 2019 and the original plan of the National Health Fund, a total of PLN 97.6 billion was planned for health protection. This appropriation is intended to cover the budget expenditure in Part 46, which is the responsibility of the Minister for Health, budget expenditure in other departments, in particular voivodships, expenditure on rescue, costs of the National Health Fund, a write-down to the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies, costs related to the implementation of post-graduate traineeships or costs included in the financial plan of the Gambling Fund - these appropriations are primarily intended for the National Health Programme. These measures represent 4.92% GDP calculated in accordance with the Law of 27 August 2004 on the provision of health care and are by more than PLN 1200 million higher than the nominal value guaranteed so-called. It's a 6% bill. Let me remind you that this law said that the 2019 target should be no less than 4,86%. GDP. It is worth pointing out - this is the comparison that you asked for, to the previous years - referring to 2018 only that these expenditures increase by PLN 7.6 billion in total. The questions have been raised recently, also in the Committee on Health, about some declarations by Minister Radziwiłł, who declared that the expenditure on health protection in the coming years will increase more than GDP. They're growing now. Although GDP growth is record-breaking, it is around 5% We are talking about an increase in health expenditure year by year at the level of approx. 8,5%. It is also worth noting, because also in media coverage or in various discussions, it is said that health funds are growing only thanks to higher contributions and thanks to the higher revenues of the National Health Fund, that this is not the case, because already in the budget law state funds, European funds, special funds, all those that do not constitute revenue or the costs of the National Health Fund have been planned for over 11 billion. This is an increase of PLN 1.4 billion compared to 2018. It is worth to point out here that, in fact, the amount of the final expenditure, as we know, will be known at the end of the year, but neither the budget bill nor the plan of the National Health Fund, which were adopted at the turn of the year, and which was planned much earlier, did not include, at least, a grant of PLN 1.8 billion from the end of 2018, which is already partially started this year and will be started later in the year, and which will increase resources at the disposal of the National Health Fund. So that with a certain reserve, but it can be declared today that this PLN 97.6 billion is not the final amount of expenditure on health care in 2019 and that this value will be higher. You also asked about a historical situation, how these expenditures looked historic. It seems worth presenting here at least the last decade. In 2010, the expenditure amounted to less than PLN 63 billion, which is almost 35 billion higher today than in 2010. It is worth noting, because the discussion about this percentage of GDP and what the 6% law gives us , it is also the case that gradually from 2012 to 2015 these expenditures in relation to GDP decreased, from 4.98 to 4.76, 4.60 and finally 4.57 in 2015, and since then have gradually increased. And that's also a guarantee from the 6% bill. that these expenditures should continue to grow until 2024. It is worth pointing out this increase. The last 4 years are an increase of PLN 22.4 billion. For comparison of 2012 and 2015 this is 4.2 billion - for 4 years. That's less than now compared to 2018. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, it was. [[♪ The bell ♪]] yet a question about the future, which is guaranteed by the law - 6%. These levels are defined there, it is probably difficult to estimate what level of growth we are talking about today, while the estimate of the increase in expenditure for 2020 is about PLN 7.5 billion according to this GDP, which we know today, and the historical values that we can refer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u155	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask me another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u156	Thank you very much, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, I will not question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u157	Thank you very much, Member. Next question asked by Monika Wielichowska and Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, on the deteriorating economic situation of county hospitals, which led to a reduction in health services. The first question is asked by Monika Wielichowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the state budget you found billions for political television, once public, money, millions for Pisiewicz, Smolensk subcommittee, in Czartoryskie, for double salaries for ministers, because they owned this money, higher money for the office of the President, Prime Minister and I could exchange a lot more. But for health care, there's no money for proper funding to secure the functioning of county hospitals. The state budget is the taxes of Poles and Poles, it is intended to serve citizens and citizens, because it is their money. And the PiS has made a private bank out of the state budget and, at the discretion of the court, gives out gold, distributes it everywhere, but not to health care. They've been protesting county hospitals for months, which the Ministry of Health has been marginalizing. Representatives of hospitals and local government officials, Minister, two days ago, protested under the Ministry. Why did they protest? Because they are in debt at a record rate, because they are standing over the financial divide, because for months hospitals and counties have been beating alarms, the growing dramatic situation of hospitals translates into a smaller and worse availability of medical, health services, and after all this is about the health and life of Poles and Poles, every patient and every patient. The contracts for hospitals are the same as in 2015. If new regulations are being implemented and there have been several financial expenditures in recent months, the contracts must be increased, the lump sum must increase by 15%. The state budget must cover all the costs of increases that are already implemented and hospitals also demand voluntary benefits of night and Christmas health care. Minister, no one's control leaves any delusions: health care is in a catastrophic state, no one's opinion is devastating. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're short of money, we're short of doctors, and the queues are getting longer. I'm not asking when there will be positive changes for county hospitals. I'm asking when it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u159	Thank you very much. No, not the Member, so far the Minister. Then the Member. [[Excuse me, Marshal.]] I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Maciej Miłkowski to answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u160	Thank you very much for the question. As regards expenditure on the health system, including expenditure provided by the state budget, I would like to say that for the first time in previous years, the state budget has paid a budget contribution to the National Health Fund. This has never happened in history. It was once, 15 years ago, a loan from the state budget, but the grant was never worth PLN 1 billion. [[That's why the hospitals are protesting.]] Therefore, this PLN 1 billion has been distributed among all hospitals for benefits made for previous years and in some way the National Health Fund has cleared over-limit benefits made outside the contract in previous years, i.e. until 2016, often in 10 years back. So that thanks to these measures it was secured. At the same time, last year, at the end of the year, the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the state budget, transferred additional funds of PLN 1.8 billion to the National Health Fund to complement the National Health Fund, which was depleted in 2018, so that these funds were at the disposal of the National Health Fund. These are also funds that are outside the contribution, apart from the National Health Fund's own resources, and this year the National Health Fund has already used these funds for the first time. 50% These funds - amounting to 900 million - were transferred to: payment of overperformances for the previous year - amounting to PLN 440 million and to an additional increase in the possibility of providing services in the area of the most priority benefits, with the longest waiting period, i.e. in the field of endoprosoplasty and knee joint, and removal of cataracts and imaging diagnostics - to the amount of PLN 220 million. As far as county hospitals are concerned, the budgets of county hospitals are growing, it's not true that they're falling... [[Then why are they protesting?]] Why are they protesting? As costs increase significantly, in particular wage costs increase more rapidly than the gross domestic product. [[Where do they get the money?]] Employee expectations are increasing and we try to spend this money on it, among others. We continued paying salaries to nurses and midwives as part of an agreement signed by Minister Marian Zembala. In addition, the rules concerning the inclusion in the basic remuneration of those measures which were previously foreseen have been amended. A similar agreement was signed with doctors concerning the basic salary of PLN 6750. In talks with hospital directors, it appears that these measures are often insufficient. Anesthesiologists, surgeons, invasive cardiologists don't want to work for 6750 a month, expect a higher salary. [[They were present during the protest.]] This is therefore a systemic problem concerning too small staff or too many places to provide benefits, as well as the associated huge competition for workers and huge increases in the salaries of medical staff. That's one thing. The second point raised by hospital directors concerns the fact that in the case of nurses, measures have been fully secured in the amount resulting from the additional indicator agreed with the National Health Fund, including in lump sums all derivatives for nurses and midwives. The data available to the National Health Fund on the remuneration of specialist doctors also show that such statistics also have the National Health Fund and the Ministry, from the data available to the directors of the county hospitals, that these additional benefits which hospital directors have received are not sufficient for derivatives, i.e. part of the funds are unsecured. In particular, this is evident when doctors take more shifts and therefore significantly more derivatives are for these doctors. Since they have higher basic salaries, automatically derived from on-calls and on-call numbers increase. Some doctors have changed their wage contracts to work-related on-calls, and therefore there is a significant increase in the number of on-calls directly linked to work, and thus costs are increasing as well as the costs of subcontractors, [[♪ The bell ♪]] means the costs of cleaning, cooking are increasing accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u161	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u162	Dear Marshal! Minister! We find that hard to believe, but our hospitals, ladies and gentlemen, are slowly dying. The director of county hospitals emphasizes that their facilities are on the verge of bankruptcy. Unions from the National Association of Employers of District Hospitals, who have lost confidence in the Minister, write in a dramatic appeal: We have no doubt that the Ministry of Health is consciously seeking to reduce the number of hospitals. However, the method of achieving this objective is extremely irresponsible and endangers the lives and safety of patients. In our view, financial measures aimed at destroying county hospitals are a conscious policy of the Ministry. Behind the same National Association of Employers of District Hospitals... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will ask the question: When will the increase in hospital benefits for 2018 be offset? As regards the increase in the lump sum for 2019, this amount has not yet been settled. These changes concern the valuation of medical benefits, taking into account the costs incurred by hospitals, in particular the cost of the remuneration of medical staff...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u163	Draw close to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u164	I'm almost done, Marshal. ...full financing of life-saving benefits or financing of benefits provided by hospitals above the flat-rate limit. Let me ask you a question, Minister: What action will you take to first block the fall and the rising tide of debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u165	Thank you, sir. Keep an eye on the time limit. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u166	Thank you very much for these questions. I would like to say that the situation of district and urban hospitals is actually difficult, because a given hospital may have more debt than the other 400 hospitals, such as the hospital in Grudziądz, which has nearly 500 million debt. I don't know how he's doing, but this is an extremely difficult situation. And it's hard to get to the point where the hospital's operations are balanced. There has been a change in valuations, and we have now increased the amount - 685 million per country. This is 685 million per country, and one hospital has 500 million debts. This is the situation. They were the best directors who thought the financial situation didn't matter, you could give away money, you could manage it so that only the patient mattered. This is not true because it is not the role and purpose of the hospital director in debt to the hospital, the aim is to treat patients. And you can do it, really. In Poland there is no situation that all hospitals are in debt. There's really no such thing. As far as funding is concerned, I have already said that since 1 January the valuation has been revised. The latest system change of all valuations, their price, was made at the end of 2016, i.e. from 1 October to 2%. , earlier, from 1 July - 2% So it's a total of 4%. All benefits have been overestimated. In the meantime, the different types of benefits... The Medical Technology Assessment Agency introduces new benefits tariffs every quarter. These tariffs come in quarterly and practically - apart from the situation in 2016 - all tariffs increase rather than decrease. Additional tariffs for other benefits are also introduced. So, as I said here, 685 million since January a year. And yet we talked to the hospital directors and the Polish County Union, that we expect to present to the Sejm a change of the financial plan of the National Health Fund at the end of May, because we know how the contribution went down, and we know that we are planning again to increase part of the benefits from 1 July. That's what we agreed with the hospital directors, and with the owners' directors, which is the old-timers, and that's what we're going to stick to. Another element is possible from 1 September. About that, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We talked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u167	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u168	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Minister, I didn't ask what the county hospitals were bringing, because we all saw the protest from Tuesday very well. Hospitals are asking, and today I asked you on their behalf, when the government will increase the hospital's lump sum by 15%. and when the state budget will cover all the costs of increases. One of the banners during this protest said: hospitals die slowly. And I'll add, Minister, that the patient dies quickly. The state must take responsibility for the health of Poles, take the side of patients and health professionals. These are not my words, but those are the words from the election campaign from 3.5 years ago, you are now Deputy Prime Minister Beata Szydło. And we didn't just ask about the hospital in Grudziądz and we don't just talk about it - he actually generates large debt - but we asked about such county hospitals as the county hospital in Kłodzek, Ząbkowice, Dzierżoniów, Oława, Świdnica, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Wrocław, all over Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u169	Thank you, Member. Let's move on to the next question. The next question is asked by Members Iwona Arent, Grzegorz Janik and Kazimierz Matuszny, the Law and Justice Club, on the appointment of a doctor stating the death and the cause of death - to the Minister of Health. The first question is asked by Mrs Iwona Arent. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! According to the wording of the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Law of 31 January 1959 on cemeteries and the hiding of the dead in the event of failure to comply with paragraph 1. 1, i.e. the determination of the death and the cause of death by the doctor treating the patient in the last disease, the determination of death and the cause of death should be carried out by examination by the doctor, or, in the absence of it, by another person, appointed by the competent elder, the costs of which cannot be borne by the family of the deceased. Art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The above law indicates that the Minister responsible for Health will determine, by means of a regulation, inter alia. in agreement with the Minister responsible for public finances, the rules for covering expenditure relating to the performance of inspections. There is currently no implementing act that would indicate the details of the employment and work of doctors performing these activities. The lack of clear, systemic regulation is the reason why it is difficult to fulfil the obligation imposed on the elderly. In practice, this is revealed by situations where death is refused and the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister for Health and Social Welfare of 3 August 1961 on the statement of death and the causes thereof, which exempt the physician of the deceased in his last illness from the obligation to determine death if he was not the last person to give medical treatment to the patient within 30 days of the date of death, or for example if the doctor resides more than 4 km from the place where the delay is located. I therefore have a question: How should the appointment of a doctor stating the death and cause of death be carried out and is the Ministry of Health planning to clarify this provision by issuing an implementing act? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u171	Thank you, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Zbigniew the King to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for that question, because it is on time. The 1959 Act was cited here and the Act implementing this Act was adopted by the Minister of Health of 1961. These years, which have since passed, have given us a different perspective and have brought us a whole range of problems that need to be solved, in line with this suggestion we make here, which is responsibility for different decisions, not only in terms of health, but also in situations where a person dies. In order to resolve these problems reported to the Ministry of Health, because they have been reported to us for a long time, related to the difficulties in establishing doctors, institutions responsible for establishing and documenting death, we have undertaken legislative work to adapt the existing legislation to the current legal situation. This subject - statements, documentation, registration of death - was separated into a separate bill. Thus, from this law of 1959, we have drawn as if the element concerning the determination, documentation, registration and decision of the Government's Programming Team was included in the list of works of the Council of Ministers under UD369. Furthermore, the findings concerning the confirmation of compliance of the above mentioned were adopted by the Decision of 21 March of that team. a project with the objectives set out at the entry stage in the list of work of the Council of Ministers. We have started work, the pre-consultation process, at the moment it is going on, mainly with the local government, because these problems concern, as the Member has pointed out here, the districts, but not only, and here with the Joint Committee of Government and Local Government, which is also such a necessary tool to determine the impact assessment of this regulation, including. the financial consequences that we must, so to speak, overcome. We are now predicting that this process, as if the pre-consultation had ended in June and this month we would also like to refer to further government and parliamentary work. And about this stage we will inform on the page of the Government Legislative Center in the page These were the dates mentioned here. I mean, you can presume, we perceive it quite unambiguously, the problems that arise both from this law of 1959 and from the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 1961, as already completely inadequate to the current situation. There are various types of records concerning as if national councils and those elements which are no longer functioning in this legal aspect at the moment. But it's also that this file... There have been attempts to modify in the last 20 years and every time there have been problems or collisions with, as if here, such problems concerning the financing of these ranges and, on the other hand, the adoption of certain solutions that already indicate. That's the coroner. I think that right now, when we prepare this act, when we separate ourselves from the law on the hiding of the dead, we are definitely richer in various types of statistics, and as if the elements that refer to such specific events as this is indicated by the Member here, when no one can be found who would find this death certificate. In general, here from 2016 we have such data from the CSO: 388 thousand died at that time. Poles, of which in the hospital - 197 thousand, or almost 200,000, in another care facility - 31 thousand, in the house - over 137 thousand, in another place - 20 783. The problem that concerns this area, sometimes a burning problem, are those who have died in these other places, but not on this scale, only these are the most common isolated cases, when either the doctor who is on the list, or the doctor of primary care, is found dead in places just under suspicion or a criminal act of murder or an act of suicide. And then we come as if to these elements. In this proposed legislative change, we want to define precisely which doctor and when he describes this death certificate. Also from the experience of recent years and the fact that medical rescue is often the last place, the last moment of life, and often at home, it appears that also here [[♪ The bell ♪]] The head of such a team would have the right to do so. Plus there's a permanent legislative part. This file will soon be publicly available. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u173	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u174	I will no longer ask questions, but, Minister, I wanted to thank you and I am glad, and I hope that this bill will come into force this year, because it is very urgent and necessary and causes a lot of trouble. I'm not asking a question, then, because I found out everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u175	Thank you very much, Member, thank you very much. The next question is asked by Marcin Kierwiński and Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, on the actions taken by the state authorities to clarify the case concerning Silver. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The first question is asked by Marcin Kierwiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! The question is what the institutions of the state have taken in relation to the great scandal that we are dealing with, the issues of the Silver Company, although it would be more appropriate to ask what they have not taken, and this list would be very, very long. After two months, we know that there's nothing really going on in this case. The prosecution is more likely to question the person who reports the possibility of committing the crime than the person who might possibly have committed the crime. The Special Services have checked the property statements of one of the Members for 4 hours, even though we know perfectly well that this usually lasts for long, long months. One can say that the great majority of Poles see a big problem in this matter. Only the institutions of the state do not see this great scandal. The big deal isn't seen by the D.A.'s office, not by the special forces, not by the important politicians. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński himself, President of the ruling party, says publicly in an interview that he does not see anything big in this case and that the investigation should not actually be resumed. And here's the public question, Mr. Minister, Mr. Prosecutor, is it that the ruling party now gives binding orders to the prosecutors, or is it that one man puts himself completely outside the law? We, too, as Members of the Civic Platform, have reported the possibility of committing a crime. It's been two months - nothing happens in this case. The D.A.'s under you doesn't answer, doesn't even tell us what she's done so far. It all looks as if the institutions of the state act as one big agency for the protection of a party of power of one particular policy. There can be no permission for that. That's why we've put it together. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Asking for this question so that the prosecutor can finally tell you what has been done so far. In the case of plain Kowalski, would the prosecution act as slow as that? Could any proverbial Kowalski enjoy the same protection as the president of the governing party? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u177	Thank you very much. I would like to ask your national prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u178	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, Messengers! Members! First of all, at the very beginning, I would like to address two formal issues. The President of the Council of Ministers does not have the legal capacity to answer questions related to the prosecution's investigations, but because the prosecution's office, the prosecution's management, is open to cooperation with the High Sejm, we thought that these answers should be given to you. You must remember, because it is the Law of the Prosecutor's Office that you have agreed that the prosecutor in the investigation is independent, that the prosecution is a partially independent institution, that it only connects with the Ministry of Justice through a personal union with a person of the Minister of Justice. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, any applicant, any law student who asks such a question with a thesis, would get a blow job. Asking a question that we are dealing with the Silver business scandal indicates that the notifiers or the respondents do not have basic knowledge of the investigation, even though they themselves have submitted a report of the crime. And as you probably know, in order to report a crime, you must have a reasonable suspicion that there has been a criminal offence. Ladies and gentlemen! There was such an accidental coincidence that the prosecution had been notified of the offence on 28 January 2019 by the patron Giertych and the patron of Dubois, the attorneys of Mr Birgfelnner. A temporary coincidence, because at the same time on social networks there was information that the next day there would be a great article in one of the newspapers, in the Gazeta Wyborcza. Coincidence. Of course, it's possible. Ladies and gentlemen! But what happens next? On January 29, this great article appeared with a transcript of the conversation that was to be recorded, and at the same time the prosecutor's office is launching a hearing on the case. In the following days there are further reports of a crime, among others. Asking witnesses today. The D.A. has taken action very quickly and efficiently from the beginning to interrogate the whistleblower, Mr. Birgfelnner. He's asking, he's talking, he's calling his attorneys. It is possible, ladies and gentlemen, to arrange for the first hearing with Mr Birgfelnner only on 11 February 2019. During this hearing, which was interrupted at the request of the parties, it did not last as long, it was not as exhausting as the prosecutor would like, there is an unauthorised interference of one of the attorneys during this hearing. After questioning the prosecutor who conducts this investigation, he decides that further hearing of the notifier must be recorded by means of an audio-video device. Multiple attempts to conduct a comprehensive hearing fail to be carried out at the prosecution's office due to the fact that... The authorising officer or his agents may not take part on the next date of the hearing or request a shortening of the hearing, or request a transfer of the hearing, or inform that the notifiers will leave our country, and then present a document, an air ticket which, as if it were evidence of something else, causes the prosecutor to impose two criminal penalties on the notifier. Because what does the D.A. want to accomplish in the investigation? In detail explain the circumstances which Mr Birgfellner raises in his notice, which included several hundred different types of documents, often in English, untranslated, i.e. he did not comply with the Polish language law, and his plenipotentiaries certainly know all the laws, because they are well-known lawyers. Right now, ladies and gentlemen, the case file is 15 volumes of files. Mr Birgfellner was interviewed on 11 February, 13 February, 28 February, 1 March, 11 March and 13 March. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the reporter's testimony is such that the prosecutor must continue this activity, which he cannot complete, because during this hearing there are curiosities, e.g. the notifier did not attach the recording to the report of the crime. During the first audition he also did not have this recording which appeared in the Wyborcza Gazeta. It was only on 13 February that a flash drive was submitted with the alleged recording of the conversation that appeared in the [[And what does this supposed recording mean?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The D.A. asked the whistleblower where the original recording was. There are no answers until today. What was the recording made? What device? There are no answers until today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The information relevant to the prosecution, ladies and gentlemen, has not been obtained. The prosecution will continue to investigate this matter for a full hearing of the notifier and is not an errand boy for patron Giertych or for patron Dubois or anyone else in Poland. The prosecutor's independent, the prosecutor's independent, and he's gonna conduct the investigation as he thinks he is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And that's why she got promoted?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Prosecutor. And please, Mr Caesar Tomczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u180	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Prosecutor, National Bogdan Święczkowski! Tell me, Mr. District Attorney, are you in this picture? This is a picture of Mr. D.A. Święczkowski. Here's his car, and here's his hive. Nowogrodzka. [[So what?]] There was an independent prosecutor here, Mr. Bogdan Święczkowski, in February. [[Independent prosecutor.]] I understand you're prosecutor Święczkowski on the street. Nowogrodzka did not play chess with President Kaczyński. I understand you weren't talking about cats, you were talking about the most important political investigations and what's going on. That's the problem today. Are you talking about an independent D.A.'s office? You're the last person to talk about an independent D.A.'s office. Art. 307 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that the order to initiate an investigation or to refuse to initiate an investigation shall be issued within 30 days of receipt of the notification at the latest. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On 30 January 2019 we submitted such a notification. We didn't get anything, we didn't get any information, we didn't get any information about it. Your Marshal, if I may only ask for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u181	15 seconds, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u182	All of Poland heard tapes by Jarosław Kaczyński. Let me quote the passage: saying that I am building it, and therefore I am an extremely wealthy man - we cannot afford it. Let me quote the second quote: we are ready really it will pay you as soon as possible. How do I pay it? After all, there is no mention in the estate statement that Jarosław Kaczyński owns or manages an economic activity. Last quote: If we don't win...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u183	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u184	Your marshal, just a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u185	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u186	...if we don't win the election, we won't build a skyscraper in Warsaw. You told me today about the punishment. Last sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u187	No, sir, please finish, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u188	You said today that an Austrian businessman was punished. It is paradoxical that the only person punished by the prosecution in the case of the Silver Company and Kaczyński's arrangement is an Austrian businessman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u190	That's the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u191	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, Mr. District Attorney. [[This one was guilty of who was punished, so you can see who was guilty.]] [[Member, take it easy.]] I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u192	Mr Tomczyk! If you're so judgmental about the facts of this case, I encourage you to finish your prosecutor's application, pass your exam, become an asessor, and then become a prosecutor. Then you will be able to make an assessment of the facts in the investigation or in any other proceedings. As long as you're not, don't judge, I'm asking you. I don't judge either, because that's what the prosecutor is investigating, not the Member or me. I can do it. it is in the procedure of criminal proceedings and in the procedure of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, that the Member has no legal option. [[I'm from government control, whether you like it or not.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not part of government or government. Neither is the prosecution, sir. [[But Mr. Zbigniew Ziobro is.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll remind you of the days of the independent prosecutor's office and the bill you passed. For three years, 3.5 years, there was no Finroyal proceeding, and 2.5 years in the Amber Gold case. What's going on at the time? Did you? Thousands of people have been wronged. We're the ones who've just taken care of these things. [[How about that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u193	Mr President, I ask you very much to be calm and not to be disturbed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u194	Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, it's not my car. If it was my car, I'd be so happy. National Attorney can't afford that. [[This is your business car.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The National Attorney has to meet with the most important politicians in the country to talk about the D.A.'s budget... [[Yes?]] [[Yes.]] ...about investments and about the Law on the modernisation of the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office. [[That's interesting, very interesting.]] We submitted to the committee, to the Council of Ministers a draft law on the modernisation of the Polish prosecutor's office. For the past year and a half, ladies and gentlemen, we have been running a plot over him with the Minister-General. We want to refer this bill to the High Parliament so that it can be adopted. I hope that it will be passed and that the prosecution will act even more efficiently and thousands, tens of thousands of Poles injured in all economic scandals, where crimes have been committed to their detriment, will feel that the prosecution is working and their funds will be returned to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Kierwiński will now act as a correction. You're welcome to watch your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u196	Mr. District Attorney! You've been talking for a long time, but you haven't answered the fundamental question. You have referred to the past, and I would like you to tell me what is happening to the message from Members of the Civic Platform. It's been 30 days. You pretended to answer that question, but you didn't answer. [[Voice from the room: Check it out.]] You understand exactly what we are asking, and you deliberately mislead this House. The absence of an answer to this question is that the High House is misled.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u197	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. They are asked by the Members Anna Milczanowska, Lidia Burzyńska, Joanna Borowiak and Krystyna Wróblewska from the Law and Justice Club. This is a question of taking action to improve the speed of administrative procedures for supporting the family and is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Milczanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u198	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The 500+ programme apparently contributed to raising the standard of living of Polish families. Although, in principle, it works properly, we can see certain areas of administrative proceedings for the provision of education, which create practical problems for officials and beneficiaries of the benefit. One of the problems reported by both officials and parents of children is the difficulties arising from the death of the applicant for administrative proceedings in accordance with Article. 28 of the Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid in the upbringing of children. In cases not governed by this Act, the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure Act of 14 June 1960 shall apply. This means that the provisions of the C.P.A., including the Art. 105 c.p.a. concerning the remission of administrative proceedings in accordance with a generally accepted interpretation. According to the legal standard, the death of a party in the course of an administrative procedure is grounds for remission only if the case concerns rights or obligations strictly related to the deceased. The acceptance by the officials responsible for examining claims for the benefit of 500+ the assumption that these applications relate to rights or obligations strictly related to the deceased results in the withdrawal of proceedings in the event of death of the applicant. This understanding of the rules is particularly detrimental to the children of the deceased applicant. In the event of the death of the applicant, the proceedings shall be dismissed. The only way to obtain the benefit of 500+ is to submit a new application by the second parent and carry out the entire procedure in accordance with the c.p.a. from the beginning, which prolongs the waiting time for the witness. The problem is aggravated when a new course of action [[♪ The bell ♪]] There will be death, and we are familiar with such cases, the second parent. And I would like to ask when the Ministry intends to take action to introduce appropriate regulations. And then there's the second question. This applies in addition to providing 500+ other family benefits, where similar problems occur. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u199	Thank you very much, Member. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, answers the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. Let me tell you a little bit more about the 500+ programme, because I think it is worth talking about this programme all the time and reminding you of the most important things that are happening and are related to it. Family policy is one of the most important areas of action of the current government. It's about appreciating and emphasising the role of family in society as a guarantee of raising children. This family is the natural environment in which children grow up, it is in the family of children that knowledge is passed on and children are given the opportunity to develop skills. Family support through family policy instruments is an investment in human capital, which largely depends on the state's condition. The most important instrument of this policy has been implemented since 1 April 2016. It is a programme that has brought a huge, unprecedented improvement in the material conditions of families and has radically changed the perception of the role of the state in shaping family policy. There is an increase in spending on Polish families following a radical change in the perception of the country's family policy. It is worth recalling here that in 2015 we spent 1,78 gross domestic product on family policy, and in 2017 these measures were already 3,11 GDP. We now estimate that after the changes we will introduce in 2020, this will be more than 4%. GDP, i.e. it will be one of the highest indicators of GDP in terms of funds allocated to family policy in the European countries. It is also worth recalling the effects of this program. As far as social evaluation is concerned, recent CBOS studies show that this programme is very good at assessing more than 50% surveyed. In 2012, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of She was positive. The 500+ family is considered to be the best of family policy support programmes. With regard to other factors related to the programme, the 500+ family, for example, the increase in birth rates, it is worth recalling that last year for the first time we crossed the magical limit of 400 000. births. And what's important is the fertility rate, because this is the indicator that determines our actions. It was 1.29 in 2015, 1.45 in 2018, i.e. we have an increase in the fertility rate. Of course, we know that this fertility rate is not yet sufficient to achieve generation substitution, but this policy that we are pursuing is going in this direction, so that these fertility rates are also higher. There is a question of poverty, poverty reduction, especially among children. Here it is also worth reminding that during these The 2.3 years we are talking about, the rate of extreme poverty in children has fallen from 9% to 4.7%. I mean, if it's like... with changes in the countryside, it's this indicator with 12% decreased to 0.7%. These are very good data. And what we are also talking about - 68 billion PLN went to Polish families from the 500+ program. It is the direct support of Polish families. And now the question that you have asked, the question of granting an educational benefit in the event of the death of a parent to whom the benefit has been granted. Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of this law has so far stated that the benefit granted to parents, legal guardians or guardians of the actual child in the event of death must be granted again, the application must be submitted and the benefit granted again. In this proposal, which we are presenting at the moment, concerning the amendment of the Law on Educational witnessing, i.e. the 500+ witnessing, which is to enter into force on 1 July - the project is already at the meeting of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers today, at the next meeting, I hope, the Sejm will proceed on it - we are making a significant change because it was actually a problem. This change will consist in the fact that the second parent's application for a parent's education within 3 months of the death of the parent to whom the benefit was originally granted will allow the grant of the benefit with continuity, i.e. there will no longer be the problem that we are dealing with today. It will be an opportunity to give this educational witness because of the death of another parent or entitled to this witness to a person, whether it is a legal guardian or the actual guardian of the child. So this solution solves the problem that you spoke about. It is also worth reminding here that, as part of these changes, we will also introduce such a 3-month deadline for submitting an application in the case of a newborn child. It is also a problem that occurs today that often after the birth of the child the mother did not submit an application and thus lost her witnessing in the first months. Now this period will be extended to 3 months. In this tragic situation, if one parent dies, it will be a new solution, as well as for newly born children. This period will also be extended to allow the exercise of this right. And I think this is good information for parents and beneficiaries of the 500+ programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u201	Thank you very much, Minister. Do you still want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u202	No, thank you very much. The Minister has already given a full answer to my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u203	Thank you very much, Member. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel, Mrs Urszula Ruseck and Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, the Law and Justice Club, on the Charter of the Large Family. I ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Large Family Card is a means of identifying a member of a large family. The document confirms the owner's right to multiple discounts and additional rights both in public institutions and in private companies. These are discounts, for example. for railway journeys, lower passport fees, the possibility of making cheaper use of offers offered by cultural institutions, recreational centres, bookstores or finally discounts for the purchase of clothes, shoes and fuel. So having a card makes it easier for large families to have access to recreation and reduces the cost of their daily lives. On 1 January 2019 a provision has entered into force giving the possibility to grant the Large Family Card to those parents who have or have had a total of at least three children. So the family resort extended the rights to discounts for large families with parents who raised at least three children regardless of their current age. Thus, since the beginning of the year, seniors who have ever had three children can benefit from discounts. Discounts within KDR make it possible for seniors to use cheaper entrance tickets to cinemas, theatres, operates. According to the CSO study, seniors still have huge needs in this area. When it comes to going to the cinema, theater and concerts, there are 18% seniors over the age of 65. I have a question for the Minister. How many people after the age of 65 currently benefit from this form of support? How big is the database of partners supporting the Large Family Card? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u205	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, Members, for this question. The Large Family Card is a system of discounts and additional allowances for 3+ families, i.e. with three children, both in public institutions and in private companies. The holders of the Large Family Card have the opportunity to make cheaper use of the offer of entities, among others. from the food, fuel, banking or recreational industries. The Large Family Charter is an important and increasingly appreciated family policy instrument. It supports multi-family budgets and facilitates access to goods and services. In 2016, an opportunity was introduced to apply for the Large Family Card by electronic means via Emp@tia, and in the following year a wizard was introduced that intuitively allows the application to be completed and sent to the relevant municipality. In 2018, the Large Family Card as the first public document was made available on mobile devices in the form of an electronic document. When members of multiple families apply for the Large Family Card, both for a traditional card and electronic card, they do not pay for it. Moreover, since the beginning of this year, a circle of people entitled to the Large Family Charter has been extended. At present, not only family members can apply for the Large Family Card, where at the time of application at least three children fulfil the requirements of the Act, but also parents and spouses of parents who had a total of at least three children, regardless of the age of those children at the time of application. However, legislative changes would not have been effective if the base of the partners with whom the discount can be used had not increased. In order to ensure greater territorial accessibility and diversity of offers in sectors or institutions offering discounts to card holders, we have provided the acquisition of partners of a non-governmental organisation that knows and understands the needs of families with multiple children, with a field unit in each voivodship and with appropriate experience. It should be noted that by the end of 2016, there were around 1.5 thousand. entities which offered discounts in about 11,4 thousand. location, with the vast majority of partners reporting themselves to the Large Family Charter. However, since the acquisition of the task of acquiring partners by the NGO by the end of 2017, the number of entities has increased to 3.5 thousand and the number of places to provide discounts to more than 15 thousand. At the end of 2018 there were about 5.1 thousand. operators offering discounts in about 22 thousand Places. At the same time, it should be stressed that the Family and Family Association Three Plus place the main emphasis on the acquisition of partners from sectors especially expected by multi-child families, namely food, clothing and footwear, education and housing, as well as in voivodships where the participants are the least. The above-mentioned actions have increased interest in large families' possession of the Large Family Charter and have had a positive impact on the image of a large family, which will allow us to get out of the demographic divide that has existed in our country for decades. However, it should be stressed that families that have ever had at least three children are estimated to be about 574 thousand and those who currently have at least three children are about 523 thousand. A confirmation of the attractiveness of the Large Family Charter is the increase in the number of families holding the card in 2017 and 2018 by 118 thousand. to the level of 478 thousand, while in January this year, after these changes, in one quarter there is an increase of 232 thousand. in this case. As for the specific data that you have asked about, the number of partners at the beginning of April is 5.2 thousand. 1 / 22 thousands. location, number of multiple families holding a card It's almost 700,000, of which 500,000. families currently dependent on at least three children and 187 thousand. parents who have applied for the Large Family Charter on new rules since 1 January 2019, the number of people holding the card - 2330 thousand, including more than 1 million parents and 1260 thousand. children, so there is an increase compared to December 2018, including 83% for parents - here we see how the proposal to extend this card has influenced its attractiveness and the number of people who use it - the number of people with an electronic card is at 400 thousand, including 212 thousand. parents and 187,000. children. As far as voivodship is concerned, most cards were issued in Mazowieckie Voivodship, almost 15% total issued cards, Małopolska - 12% , Śląskie Voivodship - almost 10% , voivodship wielkopolskie - 9.5%. The least cards today according to statistics are in Opole Voivodship and Lubuskie Voivodship. This is, of course, also due to issues related to the number of inhabitants in these voivodships. In conclusion, this brief statement on the Charter of the Big Family - this change that we have introduced - the extension of the right to use this card of parents who raised at least three children - has significantly contributed to the attractiveness of the Charter and, on the other hand, the choice of the subject, which is the Association of Large Families, seeking partners in relation to this card, has made the card very popular. We appreciate these solutions very positively. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u207	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Ursula Rusecka. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u208	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The data you presented to us by the Minister is very good. Undoubtedly, the Large Family Card is one of the tools supporting families of many children. I would also like to complete this statement. And my question -- it's like it sounded in the speech, but I wanted to make it more specific -- how the Ministry estimates the effects of the changes that were just introduced in 2018. I'd also like to ask you about seniors, about a group of seniors, about what happened. after 1 January 2019 This offer, the Large Family Card, is seen mainly as a relief in the use of various cultural goods, and what it looks like when it comes to health services, sanatoria. Does the Ministry have that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u209	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Minister Stanisław Swede to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These data I was talking about, of course, relate to the elderly. Let me remind you, in this period, for 232,000. issued cards 164,000. The cards are the cards of the parents. We don't have statistics like this on people over 65 because we don't do that. We collect statistics on parents with three children. Of course, in this group, most of them are people over the age of 65, because this is simply due to the births of these children. So that's a definite increase. We look forward to this solution. Today we see that we are getting information from parents who raised three children. At the moment, it is important that this offer is also in those places where today there are still quite a few players who carry out this card, especially in small towns, somewhere in the countryside, where it is not possible to use this card to some extent. However, here you can also to a large extent benefit from discounts for journeys, whether by bus or by rail. We have more players, this number, as I said before, is over 5,000. this year, it is already significant, and thanks to this initiative of the Association of Large Families, who is looking for partners, these locations are already more than 22 thousand, so there is significant progress here. I hope that when we report back to the end of 2019, there will be a great deal more of these players. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next, final question. The question is asked by Barbara Bartus, Zbigniew Dolata, Robert Telus and Jacek Osuch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the common agricultural policy for the next financial perspective of the European Union. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, Mr Zbigniew Dolata.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A new financial perspective is being developed for 2021 and 2027, including, of course, the assumptions and the budget of the common agricultural policy. The conditions for our accession, in the opinion of the farmers I share, were very bad. The beginning - 2004 - is a 25% subsidy with the possibility of national funding of 30%, then gradual, first by 5%, then by 10%, an investigation to the so-called. full subsidies, but they were never equal to subsidies in so-called countries. The old Union. Also these reference amounts, historical criteria were very unfair to Polish farmers. And farmers say that it is necessary to provide them - our Polish farmers - with equal conditions because we are in the European single market and the conditions of competition should be equal. The adjustment of direct payments in particular, the departure from these historical criteria, the reference quantities is very important. Objective criteria should be adopted to ensure a level playing field for all EU countries. This is the expectation of Polish farmers. Here it is worth mentioning that unequal subsidies are incompatible with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, for example with Article. 18, which prohibits discrimination on grounds of nationality. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what negotiating objectives are most important for the future of Polish agriculture. And the second question is, what countries are we looking for an agreement with, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To fight for our interests more effectively? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u213	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Richard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is becoming increasingly difficult for all countries of the European Union to reach consensus in the future in the development of the common agricultural policy. Divergences are due both to natural climatic, economic and social differences between countries, as well as to various egoisms, which are natural, and to the advantages of the strongest members of the community. I would like to answer the questions about the future of Polish agriculture, what are the most important negotiating objectives in this context and with which countries we seek agreement in a more effective fight for our interests. Firstly, in the proposals concerning the most important issues in terms of reform, negotiating objectives, financial issues are the most important issues for Poland. That's one thing. Real cuts in the common agricultural policy budget are difficult to accept. The future common agricultural policy will operate in an increasingly open market for external competition. At the same time, the common agricultural policy aims to carry out both old and new tasks to ensure European food safety and promote sustainable rural development. This requires adequate funding from the European Union budget. Unless there are major threats in the first pillar as regards finance, even growth, there are guarantees, but there is a problem with the second pillar. There's a few more sentences about that. It is in this context that we critically assess the Commission's proposal to concentrate the budget reduction on Pillar II and to increase the co-financing of national rural development expenditure. This may limit the possibility of achieving rural development objectives, particularly in the less prosperous countries of the Union. In Poland, we still have a great need for economic diversification of rural areas, modernisation of the agri-food sector, increased innovation. About generational changes and so-called I won't mention the ageing of local rural communities. The priority for Poland is the issue of equalisation of direct payments. The impatience of Polish farmers is growing, and we are aware of it, concerning the assessment of the situation. They view the current situation as unfair. Farmers are subject to the same requirements as farmers in other countries. They meet ever higher production standards, EU standards, but still receive direct support below the national average. The pace and scale of equalisation of direct payments proposed by the Commission are too small. In this proposal, there would still be a gap in the level of support for farmers operating in the single market in 2027. Another point is that, in our assessment of the reform proposal, there is no balance between greater involvement of the common agricultural policy in the environment and the budget for this policy. The new environmental, climate and health tasks will bring additional constraints and costs to farmers. Reducing the budget for the common agricultural policy while increasing the environmental and climate requirements for agriculture under conditions of increased openness of the European Union's markets to external competition is a bad solution. I think this is a very important issue. Poland supports the Commission's proposed solutions to improve the distribution of support for smaller farms, moving towards redistribution of payments, a system for small farms. We also call for the mandatory release of small farms from certain environmental and climate requirements. The Commission's proposal to maintain production-related payments is a step in the right direction. It's just a password. Poland generally welcomes the Commission's proposed system of implementation of the common agricultural policy, which is based on a strategic plan, but critically refers to the annual clearance of objectives. This will mean that after a year of spending A large part of them may return to Brussels, which we do not want. There's a serious threat here. From this presentation it is clear that the reformed common agricultural policy will not enter into force at the original proposed time because of the limitations that are. There will be a need for transitional periods, an extension of this period. We hope that the length of these transition periods will be 1 year, 2 years. What do we do? The debate on the common agricultural policy, firstly, takes place at monthly meetings of agricultural ministers. Minister Krzysztof Jurgel, other vice-ministers, participated in these meetings. Currently, Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski participates. I took part in them, too, as a substitute minister. Monthly meetings in Brussels. Secondly, our activity, our cooperation within the Visegrad Group. It is not only about the Visegrad Group, but also about the cooperation of the Visegrad Group, namely Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, with countries with which we have signed numerous agreements, agreements with which we have created common coalitions. It's about working with Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. It's one group of countries. The second group is Visegrad Group plus three or Visegrad Group plus four. It is about cooperation with Bulgaria, Romania, Slovenia and Estonia. These actions, as far as cooperation is concerned... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can I finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u215	Finish your sentence. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: ...there's a line. If I have the opportunity to talk about the whole activity within a minute, even in points, what we did and when we did, I will be happy to complete this statement. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u216	Thank you very much. Minister! Of course, you will receive this opportunity after my question. I'd like to ask you at the end of the story. I understand that the Visegrad Group and the states you mentioned are our allies in these negotiations, but how do they behave if you could say, Germany, France, the most important quarterbacks? But also, if the Minister could still present a detailed timetable for negotiations, when can they end and when, as the Minister predicts, will the budget of the common agricultural policy be adopted for 2021/2027? You're welcome. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u217	Thank you very much, Member. Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition, as regards cooperation with countries: June 2017 is an agreement of the Visegrad Group plus Bulgaria, Romania and Slovenia. The second is once again the Visegrad Group agreement in July 2017 with Lithuania and Latvia. Next: January 2018 is an agreement with Croatia and the signing of a joint declaration. A joint declaration was adopted in Riga in March 2018. In May 2018, support for the MFF Ministerial Declaration. These are just some of the most important events that were related to cooperation, common arrangements, and it is not always so that they were accepted a priori, each country could write what it wanted. There were also meetings that did not lead to joint declarations, because these interests are divergent. We're active in this. The question, which is asked how we plan to further develop our activity, can be answered, that it is at the moment that activities outside the Visegrad Group are being prepared, the actions taken to renew the Weimar Triangle. I've already been to France. There is a very good climate for France, Poland and Germany... This is planned soon, in June, work is currently underway on renewal and joint declaration. We already have such initial interest, and these major countries of the Union will come forward with strong indications and demands. This could, as before, be quite an important element of our whole commitment to priorities, to change some of these priorities and references as regards the common agricultural policy after 2020. At the moment, there is a stage where 10,000 are being processed in the European Parliament. amendments. I don't know how it can be consummated to come out with a defensive hand, without fundamentally changing the entire regulations that have been dealt with in this way. This trial needs to close. When it comes to negotiating the common agricultural policy, the multiannual financial framework, we are in a group of... The Ministry of Foreign Affairs coordinates this, the Prime Minister will conduct these negotiations within the framework of the multiannual financial framework, all the financing of the common agricultural policy, but also cohesion policy, all the funds. In this case, they won't end after [[♪ The bell ♪]] parliamentary elections. I think it's real at the end of this year or in the first quarter of next year. As for the national strategic plan and the documentation for which we already have a plan and which we are working on, this is the end of 2020. This is the real time for me. I am convinced that we will continue to present this on several occasions, in the Parliamentary Committees, in the Sejm. The conclusion of our position will be - because there will be no rural development programme, which is important so far - one document that will bring together all the funds of the first and second pillars, i.e. the national strategic plan. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u219	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current session of the Sejm will consider information on the crisis in education and the planned teacher protest, in the context of current prices, as requested by the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Platform Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the debate may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Ms Ursula Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u220	Thank you very much, Marshal. Today, in this information, we will demand an ongoing response to questions about the crisis in education and the planned teacher protest. We're not talking about electricity at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u221	That's what I have here in the script.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u222	Someone's got something wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u223	I was surprised, too, why I have electricity.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u224	But it's a waste of time. We only have five minutes to justify this request. However, to tell you what Minister Zalewska and the PiS government did in education, it would take three days, and we still couldn't describe how badly you ruined education, what you did. [[This isn't a waste of time, it's talking.]] There's never been a moment in the history of education that we've had such chaos, such a mess, and we've dealt with such arrogance. The situation in Polish schools every day becomes more difficult, more tense and more nervous. [[By the Gunman and the P.O.P.]] Teachers are announcing a strike, and you don't think there is a problem. In a referendum, a significant part of the teachers voted to join the protest. What did Minister Zalewska do? She did, and she said it wasn't true, because halfway through the school, there's not gonna be a protest, but halfway through, that's not a problem anymore? Well, for Minister Zalewska it is unfortunately no longer a problem. It seems that the government does not want to solve the problem, because it sits down to talk last chance with unionists completely unprepared, without any new offer. Today's Thursday. Do you think these conversations are going on today at this tense moment? No. They ended yesterday, they'll be tomorrow. The government has time, the government doesn't care, and Mrs. Zalewska repeats like a mantra that teachers get raises. She even got away with it once, that she's gonna give up so much that teachers are gonna make 1,000 zlotys more. In this way, she only upset the teachers even more, because as they showed their income, it turned out that they received 100 PLN of this raise. There's a difference between 100 and 1000. Even if Mrs Zalewska counts all the allowances, some of them only take once in their lives, e.g. When they take the briefing, how does it all count together, on the payroll, it's only about a hundred more anyway. Those are lies. This is the division of both teachers and unionists. And here bravo e.g. for teachers from Głogów who were able to name what the teacher did. All I'm talking about here is the board of directors, because the teachers who belong to the trade union, together with all the other teachers, simply say that they won't accept such treatment. They won't agree because they feel cheated. It's no wonder they feel cheated, because those lies that spill every day, calculated on the fact that public opinion can be fooled by them, that teachers don't know how much money they earn, they're disgusting after fasting, you don't know how lazy they are. This is really conspiracy, manipulation of public opinion. Somehow weirdly, 40 billion dollars to cover up the PiS with Silver in the lead role were found overnight, and a few billion dollars to raise teachers can't be found because they just don't want to. You just don't want to. What is Minister Zalewska doing instead of looking for a solution? He's sending the National Labour Inspection to school. Is this an idea to solve the problem? No, it's not. And just so Mrs Wargock doesn't know how to spin her head around here - just not. You often have mouths full of clichés and talk about how you care so much about your children. You organize examination boards in such a way that on this faculty you can simply replace everyone. We just talked about this at the school board meeting. I want to ask you: Where is your real concern for the children? When parents of this year's 7th and 8th graders talk about how tired these children are, how overcharged the program, how stressful they are, how scared they are, how scared they are, how depressed they are and how nervous they are, do you not care? Don't you worry that you've made such a mess that these kids learn in two years what their peers learned in three years? Now you just can't see this concern. That's too bad. I'm sorry. If it weren't for local governments, nothing good would have happened. The local governments, even though they are over 600 million behind because they have paid the raises that you have announced, organize emergency staffs, try to organize care for children. Where is Mrs. Zalewska in all this? She's not here. She is not here because even the government has decided that Prime Minister Szydło will be better in the negotiations, who has succeeded in 27 to 1 and believes that the problem will now be solved. It's Thursday. You don't talk to anyone, you don't negotiate. Minister Zalewska packed herself And he's leaving. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that for the fact that she packed up Polish education earlier, the voters will bill her. I believe that Parliament should be given today by Minister Zalewski, who is not even in the Chamber today, who does not want to talk to us, information on what he will do to save this situation. To chaos, to insulting teachers, spoiling education, and a disgraceful attempt to escape the Minister should answer. On September 1, she should stand in front of her students and look them in the eye. I know it's unsatisfying, but it's gonna get worse if Minister Zalewska just leaves here, and this whole mess will leave her parents and her students behind. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u225	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzena Machalek, for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u226	I'm just gonna pour myself some water, 'cause as a longtime teacher... Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Current information relates to education, education and the alleged crisis, so I will remind you what we found in 2015. [[Why don't we talk about what's gonna happen Monday?]] 43,000. Teachers lost their jobs. Teachers had to work for free under the so-called. card hours. De facto school pedagogical supervision was abolished. General education has been reduced. Six-year-olds were pushed into schools by force. [[And that's why teachers are protesting today.]] Vocational schools were so educated that many of their graduates were unemployed when they graduated from school. And that was the reality that we began to face in 2015. On the other hand, it would be good to discuss solutions so that this discussion is substantive. I want to start with what's probably bothering us all, which is the issue of the protests and the negotiations and teachers' salaries. For the government, for the management of the Ministry of National Education and for Minister Zalewska it is obvious that teachers earn too little and that they have the right to protest and to fight for decent wages. And that's clear. It's just a question of why this is happening today. Why are teachers so determined today? I will remind you that since 2012 there have been no increases. [[You've been in charge for four years.]] In 2016, we inherited the budget from your governments, the PO-PSL governments. At that time, the Minister announced that there was no money in this budget for the increase, and 60% for the increase. The teachers make good money because they're over 5,000. And we want to change that, which is why two years ago the Minister and Prime Minister Szydło announced increases and these increases are being implemented consistently. It's about 15%. which was to be paid in three tranches. In the wake of negotiations and talks with teachers, we have accelerated the payment of the third tranche of increases. We're in the middle of a conversation. I also wanted to tell you what our conversations are like, which are tough conversations. It is always the case that trade unions fight to make them the highest pay, while the government side presents realistic solutions that it can afford at the moment. In 2019, meetings of 7, 10, 22 and 31 January and 12, 25, 26 March as well as 1, 2 and 3 April were held on the consultation of teachers' salaries, and for tomorrow further talks will be presented. We hope, we trust, that we will come to an agreement. Because in order for an agreement to be reached, two parties must want to communicate. We need to meet somewhere, we need to reflect on what might happen and where we can really talk about the good. I trust we can prepare... The exams are prepared, the examination board is prepared, the examination teams are prepared, the surveillance teams are prepared and we are prepared to carry out these exams. On the other hand, I wanted to say what are the union's proposals for teachers at the moment. We proposed that this year the salary increase should be 9.6% from September 2019. Summing up these raises, it's 15%. This year. After implementation of this increase from 1 September 2019, the basic salary for the trainee's teacher would be PLN 2780, for the contract teacher - PLN 2860, for the teacher appointed - PLN 3248, certified - PLN 3815. On the other hand, the average salary for the trainee teacher is PLN 3335, the contract teacher - PLN 3702, the teacher appointed - PLN 4803 and the diplomat - PLN 6137. I know that the discussion... That is why I present basic salary and average salary, because it is not that teachers earn, achieve these averages, but it is not that they earn basics. Therefore, there is a need here to rotate between these two values and to know that actually teachers rarely achieve these average salaries. I agree, the pay system is complicated. I would also like to make it clear that we have proposed other solutions during these discussions, in addition to the above. These solutions are: shortening the placement at the various degrees of promotion - this is very important information, which also improves the situation of teachers - and increasing the amount of the allowance for raising up to 300 PLN. Of course, we know that it is not less than 300 PLN. If local governments want, they have the resources to do so, they can, of course, pay more. Besides, there's a start-up allowance for an intern's teacher. There are other, numerous solutions. I think that these solutions are very concrete and after tomorrow's talks we will be able to say that we have come to an agreement, especially since it seems that solidarity accepts these solutions. Besides what I think is really important and what we want to do: rebureaucratize procedures, among others. promotion procedures, a reduction in the number of teachers' documents applying for the degree of diplomat, a waiver of the obligation to attach case analysis to the application, guaranteeing the opinion of the parent board in the procedures for assessing the teacher's work, which would not be mandatory. Ladies and gentlemen! This is such an important moment where we should also say what we have done and what we really had to deal with. Let me remind you: 2.5 thousands. school removals, properly eliminated pedagogical supervision, vocational education, which was not effective, and reduction of general education actually up to 1.5 years in general secondary education. Those were important changes. But also the issue of making the teaching and educational process coherent by combining two schools, primary and secondary schools, into one. It was the expectation of Poles. It wasn't like someone came and made it up. There was no meeting at which I was a Member, so that it was not said that this should not be called for. This is a difficult operation and we realize that it carries a great organisational, logistical effort that involves emotions, but it is a change that was very needed and very expected by Poles. That's one thing. The second point, on the other hand, is to look at the rewards of teachers, neglected rewards that cannot be recreated or repaired within a year. These proposals are very specific. Let me remind you: this is 15%. this year, of which almost 10 since 1 September. That's what we put down, what we say, on the negotiating table and what we're talking about. We're recalculating the effects of the various trade union hubs' proposals. These proposals are a little lower at the moment, the expectations of unions have decreased slightly, but they are still proposals that have significant financial implications. I will remind you that according to one headquarters it would amount to 6.5 billion, and according to the other, if we wanted to achieve this, 17 billion PLN. I think it is important to say that apart from the fact that we have recreated general education schools, that we are repairing industries, there are other important issues that we are able to implement, such as the restoration of a program related to canteens and children's food at school. These are really important things that are happening. Education expenditure related to salaries is almost 5.5 billion. However, what is also important is that at the moment there is no such liquidation of small schools. This is related to [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the possibility of running a veto of the curator. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, teachers have the right to demand higher wages, and we would like these salaries to be... that they actually earn decently. On the other hand, I think it is such a moment of reflection that these proposals that the government has put forward can really improve, not decisively, but improve the situation of teachers. We're counting on the exams to take place because we're prepared for it, and the teachers will be there for the students. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u227	Thank you. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. Please, the first vote will be taken by Mrs Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice. [[Time?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u228	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply, for what we have heard here, but also for those three years when Minister Anna Zalewska is conducting a reform in education. Because it is very good that today we are talking about enlightenment, although the subject of this information is a teacher's protest, but we should treat this debate - and that is how we treat it - as a wider one. The Minister spoke about schools being closed down, about nearly 50,000. people who in times of government of the Civic Platform and PSL have left work that we have lost forever. And I am very surprised, Mrs... [[Demographics.]] ...which provided information that she was leaning over these three years. These three years are just an attempt to rebuild the ruins that are left over by your governments. I would also like to thank the Ministry for having also managed to restore the supervision of the curators of what is happening in schools, because this was expected. Curators, however, are the people who feel the most what is happening. Today we are debating increases for teachers, the necessary increases, but above all about the fact that teachers are on strike. I wanted to stress that the very big concerns that parents address me, but they are expressed by their parents in this regard: Why do teachers not think about their students? Where did the teacher's calling go? Do we still have vocational teachers today? Teacher raises are needed. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I also address all teachers, think about your students, about those you raise, shape, because this is our future, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The future of our homeland. And I'm asking you to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u229	You're welcome. Ms Krystyna Szumilas, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If over the last four years, three and a half years, you've fixed your education so well, you've changed everything, so you've gone to the teachers, parents, you've raised your pay so much, why 80%? schools went on strike, and why are exams at risk? More than 1 million students are due to take these exams, and today you do not know whether these exams will take place or not, because you will not know until Tuesday or Monday when the strike is settled. If it's so good, Minister, why is it so bad? If you were doing so well, why did teachers decide for the first time in 25 years to take such a drastic step and 80% of schools went on strike? Well, that's because you're ignoring teachers. You thought you were gonna deal with teachers' problems the way you did with disabled people or residents, that you were gonna hold that strike, that you were gonna put them on the wall, that the teachers were gonna give up their claims, that you were gonna insult them, that you were gonna say that they could use the 500+ program, you were gonna withdraw from the changes you made, you were gonna give the teachers money, and you were just gonna talk about the ethos of the teacher's profession and the teacher should be there for the student. Where are you guys? Where's the Ministry of National Education? Where are the politicians of Law and Justice? Where is he who has to solve this problem, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When we have 80% schools and 1 million students who may not take the exam? I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u231	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! When I hear such voices of concern from the Platform politicians, voices of concern for teachers, it reminds me of the folklore: the devil wore an ornament and a tail for Mass. [[Applause]] The platform doesn't have any program, but if it had some kind of election program, what would be there for teachers? The first point is the elimination of the Teacher's Charter. Second point: raising the retirement age. Third point: introduction of an obligation to conduct lessons without remuneration. The next point is the freezing of wages for the period 2020 to 2023. Next points: the release of tens of thousands of teachers, the liquidation of several thousand schools, the abolition of the obligation to teach history, etc. You could mention what the Platform would find in such an educational package. Isn't it true that Minister Kluzik-Rostkowska in 2014 and 2015 announced that she would terminate the Teacher's Charter? Isn't it true that you've introduced card hours? Isn't it true that you froze your teacher's wages in 2012? Isn't it true you fired $40,000? Teachers? Isn't it true that you've led to the liquidation of 2.5,000. schools that you have abolished the obligation to teach history in schools? It's all true. Today, don't dress up as teachers' defenders' feathers because this outfit doesn't suit you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a serious situation when it comes to Polish education, the most serious in 25 years. On this platform, my predecessor mocked the situation in the field of education and teachers. It's completely incomprehensible to me. [[You didn't understand.]] I don't think that's going to be understandable for teachers either. Is your concern for the students, for the Polish school expressed in the fact that you removed children with disabilities from school? Please see a radio recording made public by one of the journalists, on which a student with Asperger's syndrome says that he was in such a difficult mental situation that he even thought about committing suicide. Aren't you responsible for thinking that way about a teenage boy because you deprived him of a chance to learn at school? Have you ever considered the stress that parents face every day, who are not sure that their child will get into their chosen school? It's because of you that they have such a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, teachers don't strike just because they're thinking about salary increases. They strike or intend to strike because there is such a thing, not another situation in education. [[Applause]] [[She's doing very well. She's here. Bravo!]] You have produced it for three years, sir. If it weren't for the deformity of education, this wouldn't be the situation. Now tell me how you intend to help these children. 'Cause I see for a year... The Economist shows the educational situation around the world, and as far as education is concerned, we are about 10 places [[♪ The bell ♪]] lower than last year. Thanks to you guys. [[Thanks to you guys.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u235	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Indeed, we need to compare what was happening under the Platform's rule with what was happening under the rule of Law and Justice, because only then do we see what is the difference and what has changed in Polish education. Unfortunately, we had to fix what you ruined. Even the hunger didn't dissuade you from introducing fatal solutions. This is the situation that you have just mentioned, which is the financial situation of teachers. After all, for several years, the freezing of teachers' wages, their material situation, their wages compared to the average salary in the country actually deteriorated. And once again, I'm glad that you think we're miracle workers, that you think we're able to fix in a very short time everything that you've ruined for eight years. But not everything can be fixed in such a short time. We're also trying to reward teachers. This is why these government proposals, which improve the financial situation of teachers by a dozen percent. We are not able to meet all demands, including wage demands, at once. In every action, as I have just said in committee, there is reason, and sometimes that reason is lacking, also to some trade unions, who make demands that go beyond budgetary possibilities. A few years ago, you made it clear that there was no money to raise teachers' salaries by a much lower percentage. We've already raised it by over 16%. , we propose another 5% But for those of you who are trying to start a protest in education today, it's still not enough. They make demands that are really going to ruin the budget, and we strongly oppose it. Sometimes you ask why it is the Deputy Prime Minister and not the Minister of Education who negotiates. You requested that someone senior than the Minister of Education take care of this matter. Today, when Prime Minister Szydło is very skilful and compromises, you have resentment, but perhaps thanks [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister Szydło will be able to reach a compromise. I hope it will be for the sake of the students, the parents, but also the teachers. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a result of your deformity of the education system, there was chaos. You can see it with your naked eye. I guess you have to be blind not to see it. [[What's deformed?]] When I was preparing, I found a lot of defects. The level of violence in primary schools increased by 50%. The double yearbook goes to high school - the schools will be reloaded, and the classes will be overcrowded. [[Voice from the room: According to what data?]] In larger cities there are 12 children per place. There are dissatisfied teachers, there are dissatisfied parents. Parents and children are fleeing your public school deformity. A record inflow of pupils to private and social schools was recorded at 25%. The kids are overworked. Parents give up other attractions and activities for them because they have to implement a program of 2 years in a year. Another defect - the announced teacher strike. The financial situation got worse because you forgot about this social group, guaranteeing them successive increases. Please provide information on the effects of the education deformity and refer to all the mentioned defects in writing. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] You're pulling your education back to the 19th century. And do not tell Poles and Poles that this is a success. You've found Poland brick and you'll leave it wooden. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u239	Thank you. Welcome to the 9th Elementary School in Nowy Sącz. [[Applause]] [[Great, bravo!]] Especially teachers. Especially recently, teachers deserve to be thought of as warm. It's not about unionists. It's about teachers. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Teachers and Students! The opposition has a problem. And just the attempt to organize a strike by the Polish Teachers' Union is a symptom of the state of frustration, because the reform of the education system announced in 2015 in the campaign... [[Success.]] ...was carried out... [[I'm afraid so.]] ...in a way that meets the expectations of the environment. [[That's why they're on strike.]] No, I'll tell you why they're on strike. I will tell you why they are on strike. That is why you have attempted to destabilize the system, to create chaos in education, because you have no substantive argument about reform in order to be able to practice politics, but only about pay matters. Indeed, the issue of teachers' salaries is a very sensitive issue, and we all agree that these salaries should be higher. And if they're at the level they're at right now, it's also due to the state and the previous teams. [[For three years, you could have picked it up.]] [[And they can all the time.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're raising our wages. In 2017, in 2018 and 2019. [[30 PLN and 100 PLN.]] In total, this is a change for 60% of teachers in the average salary of PLN 808. [[Where's the money coming from?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u241	Mrs Augustyn... [[Mrs Wargock has been talking to me all along, let her see what it's like.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u242	These are things calculated and don't lie. 80% The schools didn't strike because... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, ladies and gentlemen, you're lying from this podium. [[No one's joined yet. And I hope so.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u243	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u244	50% schools did not carry out strikes referendums at all. If we're talking 80%, it's from the pool where there were strike referendums. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And tell me the truth. Not all teachers take up these propaganda challenges of the CIS and the Civic Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u245	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform. Terrible, you've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about a crisis in education today. Why the crisis? Because that's what all your bad actions have led to. You've been predicting a major education reform, and this is what you've come up with: a crisis and a massive one. How could you lead to such chaos in Polish education? Why did this reform, instead of positively revolutionising Polish education, lead to such a deep crisis? The liquidation of secondary schools, and even in such a short time, was just the beginning, and it was a very bad move. This year we're going to have double admissions for the first year of high school. Didn't the Minister predict that this would happen? Does he have any idea how to solve this dilemma right now? The current teacher protest caused by negligence results in the uncertainty of the students due to the high school exams and high school exams, which are still a source of stress and concern for them. No one denies that the reform of Polish education is necessary, but it must be properly prepared, spread over more years, and above all it must consist not in the liquidation of schools, but in a profound change in the structure of education, modernization of curricula and adapting them to the realities of today's world. We hope to see such a reform someday. Minister, when are you going to return the funds to local government units for funding education, which is not the task of their own municipalities and cities? The municipalities are paying a huge amount of money to education. I think you're aware of that. How long will you keep cheating like this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and mistreat teachers? How did you... [[Oh, dear!]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u248	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Just now, from this speaker from the Platform Member's mouth, today PO - KO, the words of the truth have been uttered. Teachers intend to protest because of the situation they will find in education. Yeah, because of the situation that the Law and Justice government is gonna find... [[It was done by you guys.]] ...after eight years of governance of the Platform and PSL. [[You've been in charge for four years.]] What was the situation that you were speaking so sincerely and openly about? What did the Law and Justice government find in education? Well: frozen for several years raises, the size of these increases at 0% , 2,5 thousands. schools that have been closed down, more than 40,000. Teachers lost their jobs. You have made teachers duty free of charge by introducing the so-called. card hours and for the lack of their execution, financial clearing, deduction from remuneration. Oh, that's great. That's a lot of care for teachers. Finally, such an example in terms of quality of education: the studios concerned at 18%. With regard to Law and Justice, the valorisation in 2017 - PLN 418 million and the increases started for 2019.15% . [[So how many together?]] Last year, 10 billion. From this state of mind... [[On a person.]] ...what you left us, receiving... [[Voice from the hall: Don't yell.]] ...a votive of distrust from Poles in 2015, we are taking the Polish school on the right path today. If you don't want to help, at least don't bother, don't scare, don't create chaos, just don't disturb. [[You don't believe what you're saying.]] I'm a teacher who left the board four years ago... [[Thank God.]] ...and I know perfectly well what schoolwork was like under your rule and how [[♪ The bell ♪]] They looked like wages. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The old tradition was that the bridge builder would enter under it during this last load test, so at the moment of the whole truth about this construction. This custom probably came from the fact that at that time bridges were built without the expertise, the necessary calculations and research. The bridge builder, standing under it during this load test, literally gave his head for it, handing out and guaranteeing the perfection of this project. The complete dereform that you funded the entire Polish education can be compared to such a bridge. You didn't go ahead of her with any consultation, research, and you didn't listen to the opinions of local government officials, teachers and parents. You couldn't calculate the costs, and the ones that were generated, you put them on the shoulders of the local government. The chaos, which accompanies this unfortunate construction, hits mainly children and young people, so the core, the heart of education. And now I think I'm gonna say the most important thing. Every honest, decent, and courageous man who becomes the face of a serious project, causing many problems, continues the idea to the very end, to this last attempt of this proverbial bridge. Today you should have the courage to look at my friends, but no longer your colleagues, and your teachers who are insulted, spit on your permission. Today you should look into the eyes of thousands of Polish children, who in September will stand as yearbooks accumulated at the school door, not knowing if they will get into this one dream school. You have to have the courage to tell your parents about this situation today. Finally, it is necessary to have the courage to deal with actions brought by local governments that demand compensation for reform. But you chose another way - evacuation action. We know why, because you're afraid of this last load test. You know very well that this project will collapse with a big bang, and in its ruins the successors will have to rebuild it long and toilfully. However, wherever you are, the dereformation will be your conscience and the greatest shame of your political activities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u251	Mrs Urszula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What have we been hearing since three and a half years? Deforma, corrupt education - these words like a mantra are repeated by the Members of the so-called. Total opposition. A moment ago, the Member said that there was no consultation. Mr President, we consulted before the elections. [[I think it's just you and me.]] It was the Poles who gave us the right to rule, because from the beginning we said that we would change Polish school. It was the Polish Teachers' Union that did not want to consult, not even a trade table was created. [[18%]] My predecessors, colleagues, said what school we found after eight years of government. Let me just remind you the most important thing: frozen wages, 18% equipped studios, digital exclusion of Polish school, elimination of school canteens. The library was also wanted to be destroyed, but after the protests they withdrew. I'd like to address the teachers. I understand your determination, your tiredness after all these years of hard work. But let me say this, do not have any illusions, because right now what the Polish Teachers Association is doing with Mr.Bronzer at the head, what the opposition is doing, is just a political subtext. The text of the Modern Leader appeared on Facebook, which says so about the strike, so make up your mind. If the Modern Platform comes to power, it will be as it was under their rule, which means that teachers' jobs will be removed, thousands more teachers... [[They're being decommissioned now.]] ...they'll lose their jobs, they'll be out of school, and there won't be enough money for education and education. If they are interested, I will be happy to make this statement available. In its statement, it is clear that it is against strike. [[♪ The bell ♪]] teachers and does not understand why it is to be done at the expense of children and at the expense of parents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u253	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u254	High Izbo! We remember these disgraceful words of Minister Duda about teachers: they have no obligation to live in celibate, and they also concern 500+. This is your answer to all the expectations of teachers in our country. It is worth remembering today the shameful words for which Minister Szczerski had to apologize. Ladies and gentlemen! It's no coincidence that today we're talking about dignity, respect for the profession of teacher. We're talking about raises, but the PiS government is giving it to itself. We remember 2017. The absent Beata Szydło did what? She has granted a raise to Minister Zalewska. What was the raise? 75,1 thousand. PLN for 2017. What's the amount? $6258 a month. It was a raise for Zalewska. And what's the teacher's raise? The proposals you're making are mockery, dragging negotiations, trying to build up the reluctance of students and parents against the strike of teachers, stunts, conflict management and propaganda. There was money for propaganda - 1,300 million zlotys, so that today you would piss on teachers, just like you did on refugees, on LGBT, on President Adamowicz, on uncomfortable politicians who are fighting for the constitution. There's no deformity face with us today. What's he doing? He's doing a campaign? Where is he? In Wroclaw or in your constituency in another city? You have to be very serious today: you didn't make it. We can do it, we can do it, we can do it, you changed it because of all the cases. There wouldn't be a teacher strike if you could. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Today is the evacuation action and Zalewska is on that boat that sails there to Brussels and Strasbourg... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...there's no honor even to be here with us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u255	Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You've been screaming.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! Minister!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u257	How nice of you not to scream.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u258	High Izbo! I don't understand such aggressive statements about things that concern our children. You can talk, but you can talk constructively, not politically. The reform currently being carried out by the Government of Law and Justice is effective. Schools are very well prepared for change. You know, there's always trouble in life. But that's why there's the right people in the right positions to solve these problems. I'll just remind you of one fact. Teachers do not remember that during the period of PO-PSL, like the state, total opposition, you ruled, there were no increases, there were 40,000 redundancies. teachers. [[Voice from the room: Ex-ex-ex-ex.]] [[What are you saying? Woman.]] Over two and a half thousand have been closed. schools, including the liquidation of vocational schools, which resulted in... [[What are you saying?]] ...was to the great detriment of our economy, for development. Let me remind you that the Government of Law and Justice has started raising teachers and there are further increases this year. It's been 16% since September. for March 2018 Nor was the scenario written by the total opposition fulfilled, there are no mass redundancies of teachers by the reform introduced. We hope for this, and here I appeal to the total opposition, so that the welfare of children is the greatest good we have. To be responsible for future generations, not to train aggression and various bad, inappropriate behaviours in socio-political space. I'll just remind you, by the way, that teachers worked 46 hours in prewar school, had PhDs, professors, and empathy. And I appeal to you, do not instigate aggression. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[And they had a good salary.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Aggression is a very bad advisor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u260	High Izbo! Four years ago, third graders from Namysłów High School brought their friend in a wheelchair in Sněžka. Why was that possible? Because this disabled student, who had the right to teach individually, used this teaching at school as soon as he could. It was integrated into the class, the class looked after it. A fine example of integration, a fine example of solidarism, a fine educational example. Would that be possible today? No. Because the regulation of the Minister of National Education excludes the possibility of individual education at school. Teachers travel to thousands of students, somewhere on the so - called end of the world, disfellowshipped, often depressed, to children who are farther away from society. The losses will be unimaginable. Parents ask: Why can he not use individual teaching at school as soon as he can when his health permits it? He can't. Another example of a vile face deformity. External exams OKE. A great example of human exploitation by the system. Unpaid, sometimes in terrible conditions. Have the Minister ever checked his senior year's work? Hard chairs, no food, no payment for commuting. One big piece of shit. You're gonna have to clean it up. But first of all, make sure that individual teaching can take place at school because you do harm to children. It's just that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u261	Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u262	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The institutions of the budgetary sphere, including education, must be subject to special protection of government administration as a tool for achieving the most important tasks for you. The level of wages paid by employees in the budgetary sphere must balance the seriousness of the tasks carried out. Therefore, the discussion on salary increases, among others. teachers should be held in parallel with the debate on the educational mission and on the incentive scheme promoting the best of them financially. The question must also be answered about the role of the school itself in the era of increasing the dispute about values in the context of, for example, the Istanbul Convention, which was unfortunately ratified by the Sejm of the previous term of office and the emerging phenomenon of negation of patriotic values. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We should all care that meeting teachers' wage expectations creates a solid basis for environmental cooperation to improve the education system in line with the challenges facing the whole nation. Then we will be able to say that the funds developed by society are well invested. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u263	Thank you very much. Ms Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak. There is no Member. Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u264	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At first, I would like to thank you for the reform of education. Especially for the part related to the restoration of the importance of industry schools, which our predecessors have been In fact, it's completely destroyed. In many cases the district labour offices had to serve as a school where a graduate of metalworking school had to go and finish the welding course after graduation to get a job in his profession. It's normally a shame, it's a shame for the previous education system. I would also like to ask if, at the end of this protest - I am surprised that it was even caused by the Polish Teachers' Union, because it was previously guaranteed by the government a raise of 16% , now we're talking about increases of 20% - whether, after all this has been completed, the government envisages the liquidation of the article. 30a, because many self-governments come and ask because they think it's empty money, unnecessarily spent, whether the government intends to introduce a decent incentive system instead, which will appreciate the work of those teachers who have passion, who want to develop in children knowledge, skills in every field, whether there will be additional money on the SKS, on the circles of interest. So that once again I thank the government very warmly for introducing this reform and I count, I appeal on behalf of the local government to abolish the article. 30a. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u265	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Carrotka, Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u266	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, In 1905 the Association of People's Teachers was established - each teacher signed in declarations that he would teach in Polish and in Polish spirit. Those were beautiful moments. After 1945, teachers, trade unions worked with totalitarian power. As a son of a teacher's family, I would like to remind you that in the 1950s and 1960s my father was arrested several times only for giving in to the parents of the children he taught to hang a cross at school or to remove portraits of communists and esbeks. In 1981, the Polish Teachers' Association began to function properly again. The martial law stopped it. In 1983, in August, the Polish Teachers' Association resumed its activities and again misrepresented teachers. The present teacher relationship is working with totalitarian opposition parties against teachers. Teachers work very hard. It is with respect to this approach, and you, the state, with your actions, want to destroy this respect for teachers. Minister! Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister to answer the question to confirm these words: How much did the salaries increase in 2011 and 2015 when the totalitarian opposition which cooperated with the present Polish Teachers' Union ruled today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u267	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is very bad that on such an important issue as is raised today and concerns education, education, education of Polish young people, during this debate, the Minister Anna Zalewska is not present. It's a shame that the minister who's responsible... [[Bravo!]] ...and in particular for introducing this reform, which is very much affecting children, then self-governments, and finally the rulers... Mrs Zalewska is not here to speak. The new year is new problems. The situation of teachers and directors has long been known and we see the end of their patience in this difficult situation in which these teachers, especially those working in junior high, do not even know their future. Currently, most of them also work part-time in high schools and vocational schools. This is expressed in what? A strike that could take place next week. It's not contentment, it's not a sign of satisfaction that it's very good. I would also like to stress a very important point: in schools we already have two shifts, since this year's high school double yearbook, which also spends the sleep of everyone concerned, especially parents who are concerned about the good education of their children. I also have a question to ask: Has the Minister talked to the school curators and has knowledge that this absorption of two year olds in junior high this year can cause the most suffering to graduates of junior high who may not get into dreamed high schools, to dream techs? They might even miss out on places in vocational schools and be forced to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to benefit from education... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...out of his place of residence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u269	Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Nothing shocks people like other people's money, especially when they earn little, and teachers' salaries, like most of our citizens, are low, too low, too low in other countries of the European Union. Of course, I mean the Western countries. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister: Is it true that in 2012 and 2016, as it was the previous team, the PO-PSL government was preparing the 2016 budget, the teachers did not have any salary increases? Is it true that during our reign, the rule of law and justice, they grew by more than 16% between 2017 and 2019 , and since September this year. Is there gonna be another salary increase? If I'm wrong, I'm asking for an explanation or a corrigendum. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current pay crisis in the education system and the planned protest of teachers and educational workers is a huge challenge for the whole political class. The union's agents have been announcing their willingness to strike for several months now. What was PiS doing at the time? What was the PiS-owska TV doing at the time? You tried to politicize the dispute, suggesting that the unionists were inspired to act by the opposition. [[Voice from the room: Isn't it?]] [[Write a letter to your parents that your kids don't pass exams.]] But teachers and educational workers did not believe this propaganda and had many announcements of their participation in the strike. In recent days, I have made an appeal to the local authorities, cities and powiats in Podlaskie Voivodeship to ensure that, in accordance with the applicable law resulting from the protest, the savings due to non-payment of salaries to teachers and educational staff are 100% were intended for incentive allowances and bonuses. Today, I would like to appeal to all local authorities and ask the municipalities, cities and powiats throughout Poland to show their solidarity with educational workers and teachers, and the resulting savings strike gave teachers and employees education in the form of allowances and bonuses. This will be a clear signal from the state that you support teachers' demands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u273	Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform Club. [[Welcome to the discussion.]] [[You're welcome, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's discussion of the crisis in education should start with a basic question about what the PiS government is funding us today. And he's giving us a lot, I think. He's giving us a vision of a country that's almost mythical with milk and honey flowing, where public money is spent on the right and on the left at one turn of the president's five. And just so we're clear, I'm not talking about 500+. I'm talking about PiS propaganda, which educational unions brought to the ground floor and said, "I'm checking." If it's so good, why are teachers so low-paying? Teachers say they want to live a decent life. And that's the truth. We all know that. You know that, too. And you know what the students say to the teachers that they would never want to be in their place, that they'd rather go abroad and work on the dishwasher than be in school and work for that kind of money. I had many meetings, we discussed the Polish school. In Kętrzyn I received very rational substantive analysis from local authorities, without politics. Do the same. You're gonna hear that what we're gonna do for education today is for those of us who are gonna teach our grandchildren someday. Without a decision today, tomorrow at school there'll just be no teachers. How do you want to keep good teachers at the Polish school? I, too, think it's a shame that you don't have Minister Zalewska today. At the time when we introduced the Law of Education, she was at a committee meeting in the plenary room. She was very proud of what good solutions she was introducing. Why isn't she here today? She should protect it. If it was so good, why is he avoiding it right now? I ask you to answer the question: How do you do that to keep good teachers at school? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u275	Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We all hope that the teachers' strike won't happen. I believe that, I hope. However, if this is not the case, in Łódź, Warsaw, Wrocław and Krakow the consequences of this event will be affected only by the children and parents of these children, teachers by no means. The magistrates of these cities have decided to pay teachers for the strike incentive allowance from the local government budget. ZNP says: strike until the end, but not in the Łódź primary school run by ZNP. There it will only be limited to one day. Is this legal? Because with human solidarity and decency, certainly not. Minister, is the Ministry of Education thinking about simplifying the teacher's remuneration system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u277	Mrs Bożena Henczyca, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Abandoned Minister! Listening to politicians of Law and Justice, I am embarrassed that you are trying to pursue politics, using the dramatic situation of Polish teachers. But I wouldn't want to talk about the strike today, but I would like to speak as a mother, as the mother of an eighth grader. I am terrified of the chaos that prevails in Polish education. Students are overloaded with science, and they have been given a powerful dose of stress associated with getting into high school, which is a huge question mark, because we all know that there will be a double yearbook. Is the Minister aware and imaginative of what will happen in schools in September? [[Yes.]] And you have to remember that the consequences of a double yearbook will go on for years, among others. It's about studying or entering the labour market. When is the Minister going to put this mess in order and when is he going to start taking both students and teachers seriously? Because the dignity of the teacher's profession has been completely destroyed. I will address my daughter again: Kaja, don't worry, we will manage, you and your colleagues will also manage, because although the Polish government has nothing to count on, you have many wonderful teachers around you, as well as local government officials who will control the PiS-owska deformity of education. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u279	Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Listening to the voice of the opposition, as well as some of the trade unions, it seems that the situation in education under the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party was quite good. Representative trade unions did not have to seek to raise salaries or to act against such universal school closures. Thus, my question concerns the percentage increase in teachers' salaries that took place at that time. I would like to ask what was the percentage increase in education resources, as well as how many schools were eliminated and what the implications of the fact that teachers were employed were. Shouldn't what I'm pointing out in the previous sentences then result in decisive action, even though such trade unions are now active? I would also like to draw attention to an important aspect. Now that Law and Justice have decided to eliminate middle school, the opposition is very critical of this decision. But is all critics really about the welfare of the disciples? [[Yes.]] Disabling the middle school system is gonna make high school... [[It's about the good of the students.]] ...prepare young people for the test of maturity, so-called. M.A.'s gonna raise the level of education. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u281	Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! The absent Minister, but the present representatives of the Minister! High Izbo! There was such a great reformer, also in matters of upbringing, Jan Jakub Rousseau, who wrote treaties on the upbringing of children and young people, and at the same time gave all five of his children to shelters. That's more or less the gap between what you're saying about the Polish school and what you're really doing. [[Applause]] It is a question of moral responsibility, not only political responsibility, responsibility to future generations as to the state of the Polish school in which it is left, in what condition, what quality, how well provided and with what program of teaching children. [[I'm sure it's better.]] Unfortunately, today's teacher strike is an expression. not only the material needs of this professional group, but it is also a strike, a protest against the whole situation that you caused at the Polish school. A whole series of failed reforms are one thing, but I am talking about this moral dimension, because the Minister constantly misses the truth, and when even sometimes he tries to communicate badly with teachers, his lips are full of clichés, he does not know much about what is really happening at the Polish school. And please tell me what is this Minister of Education who cannot protest against the burning of books in Poland in the 21st century. Where's the Minister of Education, what's his role? [[Exactly.]] Not only that the school was destroyed by Minister Zalewska, but also cannot be a model in itself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for no one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u283	Mr Lech Kołakowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u284	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ministers! The school was rebuilt by Minister Zalewska - in response. Please answer the questions: Are collective dispute procedures exhausted? Will the planned strike be legal? What could be the impact of the strike on children? What action did the NAP and the governing coalition take in the years 2007 to 2015 to defend the rights of teachers? How many schools have been decommissioned? Who raised the retirement age of teachers? Who introduced free card hours? Who's juggling strike roulette these days? I would also like to thank Minister Zalewska for her good education reform. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u285	Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u286	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Seym! There is no doubt that we are dealing with a very difficult situation in education and Polish school. Today, however, instead of looking for constructive solutions, instead of sitting at a table with teachers and talking, the state after almost 4 years of government is trying to blame others. All of your actions are kind of plastic, because one-off - a one-off benefit for pensioners and pensioners, one-off, so I heard today, a regulation on conditions and how to conduct middle school exams and eighth graders. I'm... [[They're a lifesaver.]] Rescue? You're saving what you've ruined. Okay, Member. I'm very appalled by such a lying narrative. I heard we never gave rise to a raise and that we closed down vocational schools. I was the headmaster of a professional school. She's never been wiped out, and she still exists today. Dear Minister, We are from one town and I have great respect for you, but I would like to ask you, because what happened at the committee meeting today was terrible. I heard there's no real definition of a teacher. How can we talk about subjectivity, status or prestige of a teacher's profession if I heard today that there really is no definition of a teacher? Finally, my country, divide et impera - divide and rule. The Romans did it, Louis XIV did it... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...tonight the president does it and you do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u287	Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform Club. [[To interrupt...]] [[But I could finish now, Mr. Marshal, two seconds, really...]] [[Voice from the room: What is it anyway?]] [[Voice from the room: You have no patience.]] I have no patience for some of the speeches. [[Don't you have patience? But you have friends.]] Not really. [[Can I have a microphone, please?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u288	Thank you very much. Since many of your fellow Members believe that the world began in 2012 - there were several such questions - I would like to remind you that the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party was sworn in in November 2007. It then retained the budget and changed it to start its activity with a 10% increase for teachers in 2008. We've kept the entire budget. We did it on purpose to show how important the status of a teacher is to us, how important these people are. [[Applause]] In 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 were on average 10% increases - 5% from January and 5% Since September. [[That's not true.]] Sometimes it was that younger teachers received more, and older ones, with a higher degree of professional promotion, received less. [[An average of 5%, and eight years from now?]] But however you figure it out, over the course of five years, salaries have increased by about 50% in total. Then in 2013, 2014 and 2015 we introduced increases for academic teachers. You know that very well. [[Don't scream like that.]] It was three years of raises for academic teachers. You know perfectly well that in 2015 the ZNP, the Forum of Trade Unions and Teachers, protested against this on the streets. Remember these collective disputes. You don't remember that, you have a selective memory. [[Why didn't you?]] There's one more thing I want to say. In 2016, teachers could be paid at least 10% raises. This could also be done in 2017. Let me remind you that 2008 and 2009 were the years of the biggest crisis, and the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 were economic years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So where are the raises? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u289	Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice. Mrs Alicia Chybicka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What's going on in schools right now is calling for vengeance in heaven. In fact, this is not a reform, it is both an absolute disorganization of teachers' work and a very heavy burden for children. I'd like to bow down to Special School 13 teachers who teach children who have cancer. Touches them, too, and it hurts that they make so little money for such hard work. The increases you're proposing are a drop in the sea. Sitting in this courtroom, I really can't listen to the ruling state anymore, because most of them are about what happened. You have to talk about what's there. [[4 years.]] These children are suffering here and now. They need help. There's no need to say About what's been going on, about what's going on and what's going to happen, what you're planning to do to change the situation. When are teachers gonna make enough money so they don't have to protest? To be honest, I'm in favour of teachers protesting. They can't do such a heavy job for the money they're making right now. Lean on reality, on what is happening today, not on history. For children - those healthy and those sick in Cape Hope and other hospitals - it doesn't matter who, what or when. What's important is what's happening here and now. You need to change that right away. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[8 years, Member. You should have spoken to your fellow Members like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u291	Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The situation on the labour market is well known: economic prosperity, and it can even be said that a thriving economy and a fall in unemployment. At the same time, however, there is a lack of specialists. Employers are faced with the problem of finding properly qualified staff. In particular, professionals are lacking in sectors related to the automotive industry, the construction industry and services and trade. I have a question for the Minister: What has the Ministry of Education done to improve the quality of vocational training in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u293	Thank you very much. In this we have exhausted the list of people who are written down for questions. Now please take the floor of the applicant's representative. Member, please. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's right, we should be talking about what's going on today, here and now. Today, teachers are really desperate and say: take us seriously. I am very afraid that, unfortunately, they are not taken seriously. Minister Machalek began her statement by stating that the crisis had been declared. No, Minister, this is not a supposed crisis, this is the real crisis that Minister Zalewska has driven us into, and she does not want to stand up and tell us, as well as teachers in the face, why this is happening and what to do with it. This is not a serious treatment of teachers and I am not surprised that teachers are desperate to fight for their rights. They're desperate. You said in your statement that the whole problem is that the two sides must want to communicate. And that's what I agree with. Just see: ZNP offered first 1000 PLN raise. Then she said 30%, then she spread it out. It's still on installments. [[That's what it turned out to be.]] And what are the government's negotiations? What does the government put on the table? The government has made such an offer that it will shorten teachers' internship or promotion. First he ruined it because he stretched it to 15 years, and now he says it's gonna cut it short and that's why the teachers have the benefit of it. First you took from the young teachers the allowances they had, and now you're telling them you're gonna give it back to them as 1000 zlotys and they're gonna benefit from it. We're a little confused, aren't we? Teachers want to be taken seriously. How are they taken seriously if no one has time to sit down with them all day? If there's such a hot time, what does Mrs. Szydło do today, where is she? Where's Mrs. Zalewska? They're gone. Talks don't go on today. You're waiting until the last minute. You insult the teachers, that's how you insult them. You also have one more keyword: self-government. You said, "If local governments want and have resources." Yeah, well, the whole point is, they don't anymore. You owe them over 600 million for the raises they paid on your behalf. Where can these local governments be subject to further commitments? How long can it last? No, unfortunately, local governments can't pay any more because they don't, they just don't. [[But they're paying.]] And here one of the messengers said that the magistrates would pay teachers incentive allowances for the strike. This is an abuse by the Member. This is absolute abuse. Don't yell now. You refer to the teacher's mission, to the appointment of a teacher. Very nice, I agree. Only may I now appeal to this mission and the appointment of the first Polish teacher: Where is Minister Zalewska? How dare you tell teachers who haven't raised their salary in three years today that their mission is to agree to what you think? [[How can you lie like that?]] You haven't raised such things in three years, Commissioner. Don't shout, or the marshal won't reprimand you. [[We've been picking it up for three years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u295	Madam, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u296	Besides, you've also made such a bravado thesis that the opposition has attempted to create chaos in education. What chaos? In this chaos you've caused, there's no more chaos. Is the opposition on strike? Is the opposition saying he's had enough? [[Applause]] [[That's right.]] We've had enough of you, it's true, but teachers are on strike. Mr Gowin has spoken frankly on television, publicly, so I can quote. He said, "The government won't give the teachers anything, 'cause there's gonna be more professional groups lined up. Yeah, well, the cops could have been given 'cause they hit and threatened, and teachers don't matter. They're not respected by you. It's sad and it's a shame. Mrs Zalewska represents a government that laughs at teachers in the face. Somehow, in a strange way, with a light hand, you can give almost 1,300 million to propaganda on public television. Did it turn up? It's found. On the other hand, Prime Minister Szydło left and told the teachers that she would give them 650 million, half of this amount, for 700,000. teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a shame, what you're growing is a shame. [[It's a nightmare.]] Don't tell me about the time we're talking about what's here and now. You insult teachers, you disrespect teachers, you don't put any constructive solutions on the table, you delay conversations with teachers, and by ignoring them, you will lead to the fact that it can happen the worst that none of us want. I want to stress with all my might that if a strike happens, it will be the absolute, 100% responsibility of this government... [[The responsibility of the NSA.]] ...Mrs. Zalewski, Minister Szydło. [[CP.]] Not the NSA, not the NSA. Yours, because today you rule and underestimate, insult teachers. And the beautiful words you wear [[♪ The bell ♪]] their statements, unfortunately, are worthless, because they are empty. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u297	I ask now to speak with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzena Machalek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by appealing to the last statement about beautiful words, maybe beautiful words, beautiful language. Let's just talk, and let's talk in a different way than it was presented here today. Talking about education, we shouldn't manipulate. [[Right.]] Talking about education, we shouldn't be inciting, talking about education, we should stick to facts and truth. I'm asking you to. [[I asked you to, too.]] And to these facts and truths I will go. On the other hand, I wonder, and I say this with full responsibility, which questions I have to answer. Because the questions were on the principle: why isn't Minister Zalewski here? I usually represent her in such speeches, representing the secretary or undersecretary of state. There were these kinds of unsubstantiated questions. But I'm gonna get some things out of this, and I'm gonna do my best to group them up and answer them. I have such a sejm memory, because since 2006 I have been on the education committee and had the opportunity to represent the club in matters of reform that you have prepared. I remember when we warned about the effects of reforms. We warned you about what Minister Hall was doing... [[Tell me about the raises.]] ...Mrs. Shumilas. In the light of what we really need to unscrew today, we need to fix, you really should hit your chest, you should talk about it. [[We're talking about raises today.]] Yes, I would very much like to speak, Madam, about the raises, but you put it in a broader context. So let's put it in a broader context. Let us put this in the context of the absence of increases since 2012. [[No, we're talking about raises today.]] Yes, that's when you gave the raises, but you gave the hours for free and you didn't give the local governments. I was a member of the local government committee at the time. I remember the strong voices of local government officials that they had to pay those raises out of their own resources, that they didn't have the money for it. That's exactly what happened. [[That's where you're missing the truth.]] I don't miss the truth because I remember it. Please don't disturb me. I didn't bother you. Let's be parliamentary. [[Then don't miss the truth.]] That was the case, but today these things that we need to unscrew require a lot of work and a lot of effort. You ask what we have on the negotiating table, what we offer teachers. First of all, we propose a real raise, i.e. 15% . In fact, given that there's an additional proposal, it's almost 20%. There's 20%. plus the valorisation which was in 2017 These are concrete proposals for teachers. We're going out with these proposals. And now you have to talk about it. [[How much is that?]] If you had listened to me, you would have heard. But let me repeat, these are specific amounts. The basic salary of the trainee teacher will increase by PLN 515, the contract teacher - 529, the teacher appointed - 601, the qualified teacher - 706. [[When?]] How will the average salary increase? The salary of the trainee teacher will increase by PLN 617, the contract teacher - 685, the teacher appointed - 890, the diplomat - 1136. These are the changes and the wages. These are very specific increases. I understand the truth hurts. These are very specific increases that we are introducing within 17 months. Finally, they will be implemented on 1 September 2019. It's about two tranches of additional increases. These are the facts we're talking about right now. Why don't we replicate these facts, maybe we should listen, so that you don't ask me what the raises are going to be. They're supposed to be exactly what I just introduced. You can talk about it, you can discuss it. In addition, we rebureaucratize education, shorten time in case of promotion, introduce a supplement for an intern. Yeah, we do that, too. [[First, you extended it.]] However, if we are talking about chaos, I would like to say that it is the state that is trying to create chaos with these emotions and these manipulations. I particularly want to talk about something that I am deeply interested in, which hurts me very much. It's about manipulating children with disabilities, manipulating children with special educational needs. Three times there was a question here about this exclusion, why a child with disabilities cannot go up with children. Well, maybe. First of all, we want her to be with her peers. We don't want children who have problems, any problems, any special needs, not to be with their peers. We are introducing modern inclusive education at European level. It's a big deal, too. It is not enough to give a single ruling that a child has special needs or needs when it comes to individual teaching to push them out of class. That's exactly what we don't want. We want to create and create individual educational programs, according to which the child is outside the group only when he has to. And it's a program. That's what you're talking about. Do not manipulate students, parents who have an extremely high level of activity and much to overcome various other barriers. [[Thanks to you guys.]] We These barriers are being eliminated from school right now. And please don't tell the truth, because it's just unworthy. I will return to my memory when it comes to institutional issues in 2007 and 2008. That's important, too. We talked about this when reforms were being prepared in 2008 and 2009. I remember when we warned you not to eliminate general education in general education schools, as we warned you not to introduce 6-year-old children to schools. At the time, there was no problem with a double yearbook. That's when the six-year-olds and seven-year-olds were supposed to go. You've got a six-year-old to go to school with a seven-year-old. It wasn't a problem. It wasn't until later that you found that the schools weren't prepared, that there were studies of the health care system and reports that the schools were just unprepared. [[There was no strike.]] You began to retreat under pressure. You guys have been so backward that today, it's actually 96%. Parents don't send six-year-old kids to school. What is good is accepted by parents in an obvious way. They're about to go to four-year-old high school, where there's going to be normal teaching. I remember what started happening when my parents came to me with complaints. They asked why their children were waiting for this profiled class because they no longer have normal subjects. This is the result of your reform. In fact, you also need to... [[15 years ago.]] No, remember when the Minister... I completely agree here that this is a situation that occurred in 2015, which needed to be dealt with, which requires a lot of action. And that's what we're doing. [[No, that's what happened after the education reform.]] Every time I invite you to cooperate to work together. One of the very bad things was the practical elimination of pedagogical supervision, which led to the uncontrolled liquidation of schools. This liquidation was particularly inappropriate. In a civilized world, there are two organs: the conductor and the supervisor. They're working together. You guys totally messed it up. Today we've recreated some things. This enables these two bodies to work together again on a partnership basis. This is very important. This also allows a certain independence of the director, that the community may be able to appeal against the wrong decisions which result solely from economic reasons. I said here that we speak beautifully. Let's speak well, let's talk about education properly, let's discuss it in substance. Let us not exploit the emotions, the emotions of teachers who have the right to these emotions. I'm a teacher. I'm a vacation teacher. I know teachers never made good money. I remember when I was a teacher. I'm sorry. I'm gonna say it in quotes. I see it. This situation needs to be fixed and we are fixing it very consistently. And I'll remind you of 2017... [[4 years.]] No. You're boasting about the increase you've made over the last eight years, when it was practically led to the fact that teachers in 2015 were simply in financial difficulty because salaries were frozen. We must face this reality. We've announced a raise. We also had to rebuild the state budget in order to be able to implement the demands in turn and for example. To eradicate poverty among children. I'm gonna appeal to my experience. I remember the kids that I taught and who couldn't afford to go on a trip, they couldn't afford sandwiches. Today, this situation has practically been eliminated in 95%. These are the achievements to which you simply refer. The next situation is indeed the issue of teachers' salaries. We pick them up, we make an extra raise. And we say - and what I want to say at the end, Mr. Marshal - is not our last word. You have to prepare a system like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To reward teachers, to create the conditions for all teachers to earn decently. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u299	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 79th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to dedicate my statement today to a very special matter, and this issue concerns the situation of Polish Councils. I am directing this statement to the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. First of all, I would like to stress that many ladies and gentlemen of the Council are fully committed to carrying out their duties on a daily basis. Moreover, many chiefs emphasize that the function and responsibilities resulting from it are even their life's mission. It is a service at the lowest level of local government, but how very important, because taking into account direct contact with man. At the same time, it is worth noting that the chiefs in our country are working socially, pro publico bono, and their role in function is invaluable. They often face many very difficult challenges. On the one hand, they represent the needs and expectations of the inhabitants of the Polish village, and on the other hand they must take into account the decision of a given municipality office. The chiefs, as the only level of self-government, do not receive any allowances or allowances for their work. All they get is a diet for attending sessions. It should also be stressed that strengthening requires and also needs the competence of the Councils and Councils. In view of the above, I would ask the Prime Minister to carefully examine the situation and draw the appropriate conclusions in order to take real action to quickly improve the situation of the Polish Councils in many dimensions of their functions. In this situation, I propose a programme of the Council+, which will include benefits for the Councils and the Councils in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u301	Thank you. The statement will now be made by Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to raise the problem of physical activity of Polish children. A recent Global Matrix 3.0 study showed that 80% of Polish children are physically inactive. The study was carried out on a group of children aged between 5 and 17 years, at the initiative of the Active Health Kids Global Alliance. Among the 17 countries we took the penultimate place. Why is this happening? Our children currently have no restrictions on the use of electronic media. I mean both iPads, computers, as well as cells used to bug on the Internet, watch TV. And really, from morning to evening instead of taking care of... I'm also saying this to the kids up there. It can't be that when you get up in the morning, it's the first thing you do, you turn on your computer, then you go to school with your cell phone. You can't have a cell phone in some schools, you have to leave it somewhere else, but it doesn't apply to all of them. There is a burning need to increase your physical activity so that you can go out into the air, play football, walk, climb mountains, do a lot of things, except that you have to learn, do homework. Absolutely not that you spend the day from morning to evening using electronic media. There is a need to limit access to these media. It could be in the form of a blockage. I must say that this is the case with my grandchildren who have such a limitation, the computer simply refuses to obey after 2 hours of using it during the day. And that's an absolute maximum for a young man. Sitting at the computer 24/7 is detrimental to the development of the brain and many other things. What I'm saying is that physical activity is extremely important. In Cape Hope, children fight for their lives. If they're lying in bed and they can't move, the physical therapist comes and moves passively behind them. As soon as they get back on their feet, the entire one-floor rehabilitation floor is at their disposal. They ride their bikes there and move. They have a playground and a park across the street. We're really doing everything we can to make sure they don't spend that time in bed with computers, and unfortunately they do, just using it for physical activity. This contributes to the production of positive endorphins as well as adrenaline, it gives the strength to fight the disease, to learn and actually to a good life. Perhaps, following my previous speaker, I would say that we could use a government program: physical activity of children+, because this is needed, this is the future. The strength of a man depends on what he eats, whether he moves or what he does. You can't be idle. Many of our children are obese because of this, many children do not have as much intelligence as they would if they were living a different way of life. It's really a program you need. And a very important place in schools should take up physical education. And those teachers who will also strike on Monday should also be well paid so that they can teach children all kinds of sport. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u303	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The declaration concerns the ban on the use of the name by Polish companies: peanut butter. Recently, the media reported that the name had been banned in the European Union: peanut butter for food products made from various types of nuts, e.g. Cashews, almonds, which are used as a sandwich lubricant and the component of homemade pastries. The Ministry of Agriculture informed that the European Commission refused Polish producers the right to use the names: peanut butter, almond butter, cocoa butter, almond milk, coconut milk and coconut cream. This is the aftermath of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 14 June 2017, sygn. Act C-422/16, where the judges found it unlawful to use names suggesting the milk product, butter, milk, etc. in the nomenclature of plant products. This situation is a big problem for Polish producers of peanut butter. The need to change the name of the product range may result in a loss of competitiveness due to a lack of recognition by buyers of the same product but bearing a different name. In my opinion, the position that Polish companies cannot label vegetable food products, including peanut butter or cocoa butter, by the names used for dairy products, is a kind of step back and take the opportunity to compete equally with the same products produced in other parts of the world or in Europe. In addition, the European Commission has indicated the requirement that names such as peanut butter and similar butter can be used by companies that have been producing such products for more than 30 years. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development to contact the producers of these products in Poland again in order to gather evidence indicating a 30-year tradition. This will enable the European Commission to provide a more substantive, more detailed justification for the traditional use in our country of names such as coconut milk, peanut butter, cocoa butter, almond butter and almond milk. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for your vote, and thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-04-sejm-79-2.u305	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. (...) Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 79th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 80th session of the Sejm, convened on 11th, 12th and 25th April 2019, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 15 min 48]]
