ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u1	Resume session. I am calling Paul Rychlik and Piotr Olszówka to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Paweł Rychlik. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on National Defence - h.m. 9, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 9.15. Today, at 3 p.m. The 10th Parliamentary Group will meet. Estimates of Poland's compensation for damage caused during World War II by Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of items 42 and 43 of the agenda: 42. First reading of the government draft Public Procurement Law (Print No 3624). 43. First reading of the government draft law Provisions introducing the Public Procurement Law (Print No 3625). I ask the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz to provide the justification for the draft laws contained in prints 3624 and 3625.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present to you a draft Public Procurement Law which regulates the participation of the public sector in the Polish economy, as well as the provisions introducing this law into the legal system. I feel that this is a very important act, one of the most important that will affect the way and quality of doing business in Poland. She introduces new rules of the game and why she is so important and so reported, I will try to introduce you. The current law, which was established in 2004, and thus just before Poland entered the European Union, before the huge transfer of public funds, no longer meets its requirements, does not introduce rules which are important, so attractive to the private sector that it would like, to the extent possible, to benefit from this market. We are convinced that public procurement - I think that everyone who has ever had local but also business experience - is also convinced of this - is a powerful tool supporting economic development. They help improve the quality of supplies of services, works, they can serve - and we want them to support - innovation, but also the implementation of social policies and state development strategies. As part of them, he orders over 34 thousand goods, services and works in Poland. entities and the value of contracts awarded last year reached almost 10% Polish GDP. Last year it was over 202 billion PLN, and this value, as we see, year to year, has grown in recent years. In the hands of the Polish state, but also in the hands of the Polish market there is no second such large stream of funds, which year by year reach the market. Properly prepared procedures corresponding to the real situation can and should be one of the main sources of income and an incentive to develop investments for Polish companies. In recent years, expectations of the way public funds have been spent have changed significantly. We are becoming less and less interested in only the price, and we attach more and more importance to the quality, quantity, technological advancement of the goods and services provided. At the same time, the Community's European policy, which we are members of, is making us increasingly demanding that services and goods be sustainable in order to be environmentally friendly. This is also, of course, another challenge for entrepreneurs, but above all for those who order the services and goods in question. On the other hand, given the pool of available resources, it is extremely important that public procurement pursues the strategic objectives that we set ourselves, the development objectives for the whole state. One example, of the elements that we are trying to develop and ensure in the new public procurement law, is that those who win the proceedings should, on fair, fair terms, employ the contractors who provide the services in question, therefore the award of employees employed for the contract has been clearly and unambiguously recorded in this new law. We also include certain specific social aspects in public procurement through the reservation of certain types of procurement, e.g. for disabled persons. By moving away from the price criterion, we take into account the environmental and economic issues I mentioned earlier. I think it is also important that - because the bill is very large and we realise at which point in time we are working - we strongly believe that it is a very well prepared and developed project. Work on it started more than 3 years ago and we started with extensive consultations: with contracting authorities, with local authorities, with all the entities that implement public procurement in Poland, with entities that have joined these contracts in recent years and which have addressed, reported many problems, many inability, but also with entities that have not used these contracts, in order to gain knowledge why this market was not attractive for them. We have looked at all the doubts and demands that have been sent to us, and we have sorted out the requests that have been made during many - more than 100 - consultations, discussions and meetings that we have had during these 3 years. One of the fundamental problems that we have identified from the perspective of the public sector is the deteriorating level of competitiveness of public procurement from over 10 years onwards. In the year 2004 mentioned by me, when the current law entered into force, we had between five and seven applicants in one proceeding. Last year these entities were statistically few more than two. And there's a pool of orders, over 50%. those contracts to which only one entity joins. I have repeatedly pointed out that one such sector, where we have very many companies, is the IT sector, and orders are particularly important because they can improve the quality of public services in an excellent way. For these orders last year just over 50% such contracts were only dealt with by one tenderer. What the consequences are, I don't have to talk here for sure. This means that, first of all, there are many companies that do not benefit from such a development stimulus, even though they provide services that could meet the expectations of the contracting authority. But this is also, of course, an impact on prices, because we know, we are aware, and any analysis shows that the more operators apply for the procedure, the more costs can ultimately be significantly lower. In the case of our statistics, we certainly see a huge area to improve efficiency, to reduce the costs of functioning of the public administration precisely by the fact that these applicants will simply be more. Based on these results, we prepared the concept of the new Public Procurement Law in the first place in spring last year. This was the first document to be consulted. It is on the basis of this document that we later wrote specific provisions that we are sending to you today for further work. This broad consultation, as I said, concerned first the development of the concept itself and later the laws themselves. I don't think it's going to be an exaggeration if I say there were really hundreds of people involved. We met, we held conferences in nine cities in Poland, they were large conferences, but there were hundreds of industry meetings, individual meetings. I think it's important, too, that we've taken experience from the market. We are aware that large private actors today also have very restrictive procurement regimes, precisely to improve the efficiency of their activities, so we have taken from the market a lot of the experience that today is becoming part of our law. Based on this collected material, we started work on a government bill. The project was ready at the beginning of this year. We've started a normal government procedure. Interministerial consultations were held, public consultations and a new project was adopted by the Council of Ministers in June this year. What is very important, I think, in this whole cycle of work on the project - we also sought the opinions of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, the Social Dialogue Council and trade union organisations, as well as outstanding representatives of the world of science, including. The Legislative Board of the Prime Minister. All of these organizations and all of these bodies spoke positively about our project. I emphasize it here because it's a bill that... In a natural way, these are actors - representatives of local government on the one hand, on the other hand employers - who rarely have a common view, a good view of the proposed legislative changes. In this case, we have managed to reconcile these seemingly conflicting interests. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective pursued by the new Public Procurement Law project is to increase the efficiency of the public procurement system mentioned by me. We realize what efficiency is. This is getting the best possible results in the shortest time at the best possible price. These effects can, of course, be different. The result may be the fastest delivery of office equipment, but it may also be the construction of a building in such a technology that will make its long-term operation much cheaper than other available technology. But another effect is also to increase the potential of small and medium-sized companies. Finally, the result is also very expected by us to increase the level of innovation, and therefore a new, more attractive, more interesting way of doing its tasks, on the one hand, by the municipality, e.g. in the field of waste management. This is an extremely important innovation reserve right now. In order to achieve this goal, the new law has the task of creating a public procurement system that will respond to all the most important problems of the market. Every problem that we have identified as part of an open consultation first with a concept, and then with Public Procurement Law, we answer, we hope, we are convinced, with concrete solutions. The first one I mentioned here is the disproportionate share of small and medium-sized companies in the public procurement market. We always remind you that small and medium-sized companies are more than 90% entities active in the Polish economic landscape and the public procurement market definitely does not reflect this landscape. So we've identified barriers, and we've tried to measure them. How do we do that? First of all, for national proceedings below the EU thresholds, we are introducing a new, easier procedure that does not require procedures based on EU directives. Operators will be able to award contracts using a flexible, simplified procedure, which provides the possibility, in particular, of negotiating tenders to a wider or narrower extent, depending on the contracting authority's decision. This is a special procedure for this type of order. We hope that this will encourage more players, small and medium-sized, to participate in this market. At the same time, we are aware that small and medium-sized companies are very often taking part in the public procurement market as subcontractors. So, by introducing solutions that are beneficial for contractors, we have also not forgotten about subcontractors. We also want to ensure that they enjoy all the rights that contractors enjoy. We bind contractors to care for the interests of subcontractors in an appropriate way. Therefore, among others. the Act contains a provision which ensures that the provisions of contracts with subcontractors will not be less favourable than those of contracts with contractors in terms of contractual penalties, payments or valorisation. Opening up to SMEs will also serve to remodel the competition procedure. The fact that this is a good tool has been experienced by the implementation of the GovTech programme initiated by Mr Moravian Prime Minister 2 years ago. Many such competition procedures, especially in the field of IT services for administrations, have been effectively carried out. Using these experiences, we have definitely simplified the competition procedures. The new competition will allow, among others. for the conclusion of a contract for the performance of a service with which competition work was involved and not only for the development of a project carried out. This is the short access path, i.e. the winner of the competition will not have to proceed to a complex, complex procedure, only on the basis of the winning competition you will be able to sign with him a contract for the execution of the entire order. We are convinced that this element will definitely open up the public procurement market for innovative companies, for a sector that is definitely not taking part in public procurement today. Changes in this respect to facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises also required a reference to the issue of the security of the proper performance of the contract. Today, liquidity problems very often make small companies unable to participate in tenders, because they simply cannot afford a security deposit or security. These requirements, which are today, as all actors have reported, are far too excessive. Therefore, in smaller national simplified procedures, the maximum value of the security which the contracting authority may require is reduced by half, i.e. up to 1.5%. At the same time, the project assumes that the security will be optional in all proceedings, i.e. that the ordering party will be able to, but he won't have to expect it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In addition, the maximum security that the contracting authority may require shall be 10%. the total price quoted in the tender. In practice, many contracting authorities require a security of this kind, although not always such a security is justified by the specific nature of the contract.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister of Enterprise and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz: These solutions are, of course, much more, not just for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. It is also a huge facilitation for the public sector. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I recommend that you accept the new Public Procurement Law. Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Mr Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft of the new Public Procurement Law presented by the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology is a response to the voices of the whole public procurement market, which has been waiting for the law for several years, which will respond to the needs of today's economic situation and the problems of spending a huge stream of public money. The new Public Procurement Law creates a completely new framework for more efficient public spending, focused primarily on successful performance of the contract between the trader and the public, rather than on the formal side of the procedure. Project of this objective in the form of the effectiveness is achieved by focusing on the neglected stages of the procurement procedure, planning, preparation and subsequent implementation of the performance evaluation of the contract in the current act. Today, public entities focus primarily on the selection of the contractor, sometimes not paying sufficient attention to other elements of the whole process, which are equally important and sometimes even more important, because a successful contract can only be spoken of when the entity of the contract is fully executed. Before I move on to these specific amendments, which the law contains very much, I would like to mention that it is important that the law retains some important achievements introduced in the system by the 2016 amendment to the Public Procurement Law. One of them is to continue to depart from the price dictation as the only criterion for selecting offers for quality in particular. The second very important topic is the so-called question. in-house contracts, i.e. tasks contracted to entities dependent on the contracting authority, e.g. municipal companies. However, some clarification is introduced to ensure that this institution is not abused. It is worth mentioning at least a few of the solutions contained in the Law addressing problems mainly related to low competitiveness in this market or too little participation in the SME sector. The introduction of state purchasing policy, focusing purchases on innovation, sustainable products and services provided to public bodies. Purchasing policy is intended to be a coherent and strategic spending plan. Introduce the principle of efficiency in the award of public contracts, i.e. the highest possible economic or social benefits from the funds spent with the best possible ratio of expenditure to the benefits obtained. Introduce an obligation to carry out an analysis prior to the initiation of a public procurement procedure, in particular a high value contract, both on the procedural side and on the economic and technical side. Simplifying the use of procedures suitable for the award of public contracts. Negotiations pave the way for contracting to gain knowledge of the best innovative solutions that contractors can offer. Introduction of the principle of cooperation between the contracting authority and the contractor at the stage of the performance of the contract. The proposal implies expressing the obligation of the contracting authority and the contractor to cooperate directly in order to ensure the proper performance of the contract. Separation of a simplified procedure for contracts below the Union thresholds. Proposals in the project that respond directly to the problem of low competitiveness include:: simplifications in the qualifications of economic operators, including limitation of exclusion conditions; obligation to apply advances or partial payments in longer contracts; mandatory valorisation in contracts concluded for more than 12 months or a catalogue of prohibited clauses. In addition, a settlement mechanism was provided for to settle the biggest disputes between the contractor and the contracting authority at the stage of the performance of the contract. Important changes also concern the system of legal protection measures, namely the reduction of the charge on the complaint against the case law of the KIO, the extension of the time limit for bringing an action against the judgment of the KIO. The procurement control system will be developed through common general rules on the control of public procurement, on the basis of an analysis of the risk of an infringement or on the obligation to publish guidelines for control by control authorities. The role of the President of the Public Procurement Office in preparing and promoting good practice and model documents will also be strengthened, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will constitute...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u7	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u8	...support for the contracting authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u9	Thank you very much. Now the voice...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u10	At the same time, I am applying, Mr Marshal, to refer to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u11	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the opportunity to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition regarding the Public Procurement Law Act, print No. 3624, and the Rules introducing the Public Procurement Law Act, print No. 3625. In the short term, we have not been able to make a very substantive reference to 623 articles since the delivery of the Seym printing. We hope that while working in committee, we will be able to get to know and process this project in depth. The Act will replace the existing Public Procurement Law, which was adopted in 2004 and subsequently amended several times. The public procurement market has been experiencing a very big crisis lately. We have information about the exit of subcontractors and contractors from the works and the termination of contracts. This is mainly due to the fact that unfortunately winning the tender and offers are submitted sometimes 2 years before entering the construction site. This period makes this contract sometimes completely insolvent. The second reason why we should be worried is that the average number of people willing to take off in public procurement is falling. At the moment, this average is 2.5 offers. But one thing frightens us - not only us but also entrepreneurs - that the Public Procurement Act 1994 had 97 articles, in 2004. - it's 227 and it's 623. I am aware that we are introducing EU directives and I hope that the next law will not cross the 1,000 barrier. articles. The Act proposes solutions which, according to the authors of the project, meet the expectations of both public entities and contractors. This is intended to increase the importance of dialogue with the contractor. It introduces principles of efficiency, limitations and clarifies the grounds for exclusion. It simplifies procedures both below and above the Union thresholds. It reduces charges on complaints to the court for the ruling of the National Chamber of Commerce. Growth is expected interest in tenders, because this market worth more than PLN 200 billion is indeed very encouraging. A settlement settlement agreement may be reached by the parties to the arbitration court acting at the General Prosecutor's Office. Also, the sustainability of the parties in public procurement contracts, the abolition of joint and several liability of economic operators in the framework of an innovation partnership. Introducing an obligation to apply advances or partial payments in contracts over 12 months. As well as strengthening the role of the President of the Public Procurement Office in preparing and promoting good practices and standards of documents that will support contracting authorities. Introducing a new solution to out-of-court dispute resolution. First of all, the issue of value-added contracts this is a thing that is actually very important, and that the price is not the main condition for consenting to the performance of the contract. And reservations. Leviatan pointed out that the regulation did not regulate a sufficiently strong issue in so-called in-house contracts, also Leviatan considers that the decisions of the National Board of Appeal should be binding on all national institutions. There were also suggestions that the terms such as the value of the contract, the offer, the most advantageous offer, the negotiations, and this should be improved, and the employers of the Polish Republic want the law to update prices also for deliveries, and not just for the construction industry and services, to indicate the volatility of prices and fluctuations in euro exchange rates. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u13	Thank you. Mrs Maria Janyska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u14	Minister! High Izbo! The Minister said how important this project is. He's super important, ladies and gentlemen. And that's why it's unbelievable what's going to happen to this project. It is unbelievable that he is to be adopted until the end of this term. It will also be unbelievable if the Sejm agrees that this project should go to the deregulation committee, a small committee which is not properly prepared for this and has another important act to consider at the moment. The omission of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, if the House so decides, will be improbable. If this happens in the case of this project, then this High House - I am speaking to all Members, to Members of the Ruler's Option and to the opposition - will be treated as a notary who is to arrive at a certain date, i.e. to say that this document was presented to him on that day, otherwise there is simply no possibility... I know what I'm talking about, because I have been running major projects on the revision of the Public Procurement Law and that term, and at the beginning of this term. I know how much work it takes to be reliable and so that we can actually prepare the best possible solutions, not hasty solutions for entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] An example is also...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u15	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u16	...to which I have raised many reservations, and now it has been found that there are many irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u17	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of my parliamentary club regarding the draft law amending the Public Procurement Law. Minister! So far I have had no charges against your work, my assessments have always been very high, I have appreciated them very much, but what is going to happen here with this bill is going to happen in the Seym... The best thing about this picture is the end of Mrs Janyska's speech, when a very fundamental Mr Terlecki... It was simply the end of time, so the Member had to get off the stand and that was the end of the discussion on Public Procurement Law. [[Mr. Marshal himself said he was violent.]] Minister! You know very well that it is a very extensive matter, very complicated and requiring a calm approach. I respectfully approach the work done by the ministry, the officials, to the consultations that took place because they lasted a long time. I do not question that, because the OSR also shows that the mass of entities - mass in a positive sense - has been invited to consult. Very many actors, more than a hundred, participated in the arrangements, whether in the consultation or in the agreement meeting, so I have no doubts about this. But, Minister, we have de facto the penultimate, maybe the penultimate sitting of the Sejm. I remember that when we were investigating the first one in this term of office, a major change in the Public Procurement Law, there were several or several meetings of the subcommittee. It was a very complicated project. Meanwhile, at the end of the day, a very large project is presented to us, which is hard to even... [[Lift.]] It is difficult even to tell anything about him, because, as Mr Meysztowicz said, there are more than 0.5 thousand here. articles, the whole print has 1600 pages. Of course, most of them are a consultation report that took place, but the fact is... I remember that when we worked on the previous amendment in 2016, this major amendment to the Public Procurement Law, it was said that there would be an even greater amendment. We've been waiting for this and it turns out that the project has been consulted for so long... This is my big charge to the state which was responsible for proceding and consulting, because the same way of proceding this law is actually overturning - please forgive me for referring to such a high category - constitutional order, because it turns out that in principle the Sejm, I am sorry, but it is only since some solutions have been taped, because I do not know how the Minister imagines that - since the consultations conducted by the Ministry with hundreds of entities lasted 2 years - now the Sejm, so to speak, will approve it within a maximum of 2 months, and we do not even have that much time, because from what we know, the last session of the Sejm is to be held on 11th, 12th and 13th September. Hence my accusations, hence my surprise, because this in turn will result in my assessment of the need to bow down in the next term of the Sejm over certain solutions which will probably cause controversy or turn out to be wrong. So, Minister, it is not that I criticize here and that we do not support this change, because this is a big change that contains a lot of smart postulates, good directionally, but I am really surprised that it is being followed in the Seym in such a way that it is presented in principle overnight. So, Minister, I very much hope that the project will hit... If it is to go to the deregulation committee, if that is your decision, that is fine, but let it also go to the Committee on Economics and Development, which has already examined the previous major revision of the Public Procurement Law. Therefore, Mr Marshal, I am proposing that this project should also be addressed to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, which is a larger committee and whose Members have primarily worked on the previous major amendment of the Public Procurement Law, so we are so familiar with this matter that we have spent several dozens, and perhaps even a few hundred hours, on the previous amendment. So that I very much hope, although it is a burning hope, that we will be able to work through this project calmly. Honestly, I don't know what it's gonna look like, but of course we're in favour of putting the project on the committee. Forgive me for not referring to these 11 basic amendments, 5 directives, the provisions or assumptions of which are implemented by this law. There are hundreds of different interesting proposals, concepts, including solutions taken into account, not included or rejected in the consultation process, so let's work on this bill, but calmly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u19	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a very important law, one of the most important laws that we are to adopt in this term of office. Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I would like to say that when I saw that this project entered the agenda, I was shocked. As can be done for 2 months, for 2 sessions before the end of the term of office, this powerful, important and important project is headed to the Sejm. I appreciate, Minister, your contribution and participation in the preparation of this project, because I know that you are trying to do it well, objectively, but with all your sympathy for the Minister, it is too important, too powerful a project - it has several hundred pages, but I'm already overlooking the pages... You can see for yourself that you have not been able to discuss what is in this project at this seym time, even in general. And every article has certain consequences, very important. Like you said, 10%. gross domestic product is passed through public procurement. We know these experiences. How many sub-committees had to work and change their records, because during work, of course, public consultations, inter-ministerial consultations are important, but after these consultations, hundreds of amendments come. When can the Sejm do this? I think this is a ridiculous treatment of the Sejm. I know it's not your fault because the government's legislative process is governed by its laws, but I think it's true that the Sejm is unable to sign what we're going to adopt. It should be, if it's good, some decree introduced, I don't know, the president should introduce a decree or prime minister to find some special solution. It's not like we can take responsibility for this. Everyone will accuse us and then pull out: you signed, you voted in favour. What am I supposed to vote for if it's not even for the economic committee, but some specialty will do it quickly so no one knows what's in there? In the case of such a serious bill, all Members, whether the governing coalition or the opposition, support the need for amendments to the Public Procurement Act, but should have knowledge, at least in general, of what will result. Detailed solutions are really complicated and this law in economic life creates many tensions, many suspicions of dishonesty. We will listen to these comments very much from local governments and entrepreneurs. That's why we're in favour of proceding, but we won't take responsibility for what's in this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u21	Thank you very much. Are you still in the mode of correcting your statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u22	Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After consulting the Sejm Chancellery, I wanted to correct it. My proposal concerns the referral of this project only to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development from one simple point of view, since the deregulation committee is to reduce the amount of legislation. This law, the new Public Procurement Law, is more complicated than the predecessor, so in this respect it should go to the Committee on Economics and Development, where, as I said, Members have already worked on the previous major amendment of the Public Procurement Law, and this seems fully justified. And I'm gonna make this very clear. Mr Meysztowicz, President of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, has just stated in a clear way that these changes to the Public Procurement Law are needed, so there is no concern that the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development will not stand up to its task and will renegotiate this project in a way that, I do not know, is worse than the deregulation committee. So that it should only be sent to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u23	Thank you, sir. Eleven ladies and gentlemen came to the questions. I'm opening the question section. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy? Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, also the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You say that the solutions contained in the Public Procurement Act will make them much more competitive and increase their quality. However, increasing competitiveness between companies entering into tenders will not be enough without real investment quotas. The planned investments are underpreciated and underestimated, and the costs in kind and in kind are generally unreliable. A clear example is the construction of S1 Przybydz - Milówka, i.e. bypassing Hungary's Górka, which the government has been promising for 4 years, and it has recently been acknowledged that for this purpose money should be increased from the state budget, because the investment is undervalued. That's what these tenders look like after that. Now, back to the bill, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] you say that the main purpose of the bill is to increase efficiency.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u25	Thank you, Member. Mr Piotr Olszówka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u26	I'm afraid it's gonna be bad with that efficiency. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Thank you for for forgetting to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u27	I didn't forget. You made it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u28	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs report to my office. They look very well at this bill. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister. Is there a solution envisaged in this project that will facilitate the financing of investments, which will provide liquidity, especially for smaller entrepreneurs who are not brave today, afraid to compete in tenders? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u29	Thank you. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government's draft Public Procurement Law amends and regulates existing legislation in this area. This is undoubtedly very important for the smooth operation of the public procurement market in Poland. It was a very expected bill. However, it should be noted that the current law, which was 14 years old, had 227 articles, while the draft new law introduces new solutions for public procurement procedures, but also extends the law to 623 articles. This means that the contracting authority will need time and resources to implement the new public procurement system efficiently. Please inform whether the funds have been calculated to improve government and local government staff and whether the government has provided funds for aid to local authorities in this area. I've been cooperating. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the public procurement department, and I know how much responsibility the employees have. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u32	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In proceedings there are very often disputes between the contracting authority and the contractor. They say the worst deal is much better than even the best verdict. Is there any provision in this project to support the amicable resolution of disputes between the contracting authority and the contractor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kobyliński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u34	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! First substantive question on the bill. I would ask you to present how the bill is intended to combat payment congestion and the fact that public procurement is often bankrupt, especially as regards the road industry. On the other hand, I would also like to ask you to support the call of Members to go to the Committee on the Economy - a large committee with experience in public procurement. Here we all, with every political option, guarantee a reliable, substantive and very fast work on this. I believe that the law that changes the economic space in Poland so enormously should be examined in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, not in the committee on deregulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u35	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister mentioned that your aim was to support micro- and small enterprises. The point is that they actually take part in tenders and apply for public contracts. I wonder... This bill certainly doesn't make it easy for them, because getting through all these laws isn't easy. Some companies can't afford to set up a special cell that only deals with public procurement, or order other specialized companies to pay hard money for it. Wouldn't it be a good idea to set up, either at the Public Procurement Office or at the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, such a cell as those cells that support entrepreneurs in applying for EU subsidies? The point is that there's a cell phone that would help those smallest entrepreneurs who can't afford to order the procedure outside. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u37	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! After a short analysis, there was no time. Too much, I have two specific questions for the Minister. Firstly, why it is maintained that, in the case of contracts awarded by local government units in terms of price criterion, the principle must be respected that this must not exceed 60% ? Orderers artificially create different criteria. It often costs a lot. What's with the fake record? Secondly, why do employment requirements remain based on employment relationships? It's the keeping of fiction, let's just say it openly. The contractor is coercing the contractors, and there are no tools to control it. I think it's time to get away from such rigid, ridiculous records. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u39	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Listening to the whole discussion, I feel like whatever we do, we're gonna regret it anyway. But we're talking about matter so important... I'm going to say here from the point of view of the committee that I chair, the government. I know that local authorities say one thing: a huge number of tenders are actually pending. I have a question for the Minister because the bill is very extensive and fresh. How much is the proposal proposed by your department able to solve this problem of settlement and, at the same time, the issue of simplification of appeals? The point is not to block it on an age-old ping-pong basis, to sue, to prolong time, and at the same time to let it into the cost. Here we're really talking about so much matter that a minute and 15 minutes aren't enough. I am pleased that there has been a broad consultation, and I am convinced, gentlemen, that if this case were so simple, we would have had the subject taken care of by now. We're talking about matter very much, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Very embarrassing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u41	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft Public Procurement Law, which we are currently debating, has 600 pages. Most architectural studios are one-man business activities. How are these people supposed to deal with this? Taking such a thick bill will completely absorb the funds that are intended to make a profit for this studio. That's the first thing. Second thing, the most important thing. I wanted to ask you why you didn't bring up such an important subject as the quality of architecture in the tender procedure. As far as the Public Procurement Law is concerned, we also have the formula: design and build. This formula completely forgets the quality of the architectural appearance of the object. Once again, I'm making a motion to also do the pointing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what quality is, and not just take into account the economic account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u43	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u44	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I remember that in the previous major revision of the Public Procurement Law, very much controversy was raised by the introduction of the so-called regulations. in-house with regard to the Cleanliness and Order Law in the municipalities. It was about picking up the trash. I have a question. Since you have analysed this - 2 years, according to the OSR, you have consulted this project; we do not have that chance, we are not 2 years old, we have less than 2 months - the question is this: What are the consequences of this in-house? How many municipalities have taken on the responsibility and burden of receiving waste pollution from residents, from entrepreneurs? Because I remember that then, in 2016, entrepreneurs expressed a great concern about their continued existence if the municipalities wanted to take over these responsibilities for them. Hence the question: What is the scale of this phenomenon in the last, say, 2 years when the project was consulted? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Jadwiga Emilewicz, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I thank you very much for all these questions, and I think we agreed on one thing, that this is a law very much needed. I understand the objections, and maybe I'll talk to them first because they've come up with a lot of questions. It is about reservations about the time of the bill and the size of the bill. Firstly, once again, I stress that we have made every effort to make it a well-prepared project so that in the works of the parliament the state does not have to write a de facto law again, only so that we can get to know it well and possibly make cosmetic corrections. Secondly, today we are aware, and you know that, as a reminder of the S1 we have in public procurement. Therefore, my question is: Are you ready today to entrust entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized subcontractors, large ones who come down from buildings that do not want to implement them, who do not have the possibility to move to the conciliation mode, but also to the contracting system, but also to citizens who will not have the road to be waiting for the next years with this bill? This law gives us the opportunity to accelerate the many construction works that we are doing today. Recognizing the importance of the act and the time we are in, we also decided at the beginning of this year to introduce a long vacathio legis, so that, first of all, there is no doubt that the ordering party will have 3 months to learn the new rules. We therefore assumed that the date of entry into force of this law would be 1 January 2021. Then, if there are any doubts in further analysis, the new term of office will be able to make any changes, which I hope will not happen, because this time, now, until the end of this term, will allow this well-prepared project to be finally refined. As far as the length of this bill is concerned, of course, we can count this because of meters or numbers. Indeed, the present law has slightly more than 360 articles, and this is bigger. But if you, especially the members of the economic committee, are well aware of the current Public Procurement Law, then you know that there are many articles in which points from a to z are included under one number, so if we were to calculate the real weight, then this weight would be the same. You are aware that we are implementing complex, complex European law. We have tried in this law to apply the principle which we apply at all in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, i.e. not to embezzle law, not to overwrite what Community law requires of us. Many questions concerned small and medium-sized companies, facilitating them. I mentioned that this was a separation of the rules related to orders to the so-called. The EU thresholds make the smallest ones not have to stray from Article. 1 to Article 640, they only have their own separate part. This easier procedure is also an element addressed to them. As far as these architects are concerned - small and medium-sized companies - this is the competition procedure that allows us to sign the contract after the competition. This solution is addressed to this group in particular. If we are talking about small and medium-sized companies, we are also thinking with particular care about improving their liquidity, hence also reducing the requirements for deposits and advances, as well as the obligation to pay advances and advance payments when we have an agreement that goes beyond a period of 12 months. Now the question concerning the local government units and the number of tenders that you have mentioned until today has not been settled. In the new rules we assume that even if the selected contractor withdraws from the performance of the contract, the contracting authority will be able to choose the second in turn, even during the duration of the contract. We have assumed, we hope, a situation where we have one approacher and a non-fulfilling failure to comply with the agreement. That's how we try to address it. Also simplifying the procedure. What is most important to us is an increase in the number of applicants for a given order. We also hope that this will eliminate those orders that cannot be found today by contractors. We are also introducing what I did not have time to discuss in the introduction, a very large number of conciliation and mediation proceedings. We are aware of what you were talking about when you asked us that every settlement is better and more effective than a court order. That's why we wanted to make it clear to you today that we have over 1,000. claims submitted for more than 10 billion, in disputes we have more than 10 billion PLN. Therefore, by relying on conciliation proceedings, we are launching more the Attorney General, who will be such a mediator in cases where he is not today, e.g. in matters with local government units. Of course, we also offer the possibility to mediate centres, media centres. At the same time, today in the procurement process - it is also important, which I also did not have the opportunity to discuss - the whole burden in the proceedings is primarily the choice of the contractor and the signing of the contract. In fact, the process of preparing the order, its execution, evaluation is basically omitted. In our project we place equal emphasis on the whole process, on these four elements in the procurement process, as well as on the particular importance and care, the obligations of this particular care we impose on the preparation of the order in order to eliminate often encountered situations, when we realise that we are ordering non-existent services, not to be carried out in time, and these market consultations are particularly required here and the contracting authority will have to identify itself, confirm that it has actually carried out such consultations. The question about support, Mr Meysztowicz, asked the question about how small and medium-sized companies will be able to learn about changes and learn about new regulations. To this end, we increase the role of the Public Procurement Office, we assume this support for 10 new jobs, which are primarily intended to serve, to be addressed to small and medium-sized companies. The Public Procurement Office will set up a special hotline, but it is also already preparing, developing patterns to be used for the efficient execution of orders for the contracting authorities, but also be helpful for contractors who will not be surprised by orders. So that this element is already being realized today. At the same time, the Public Procurement Office has already prepared a series of trainings with which it is ready to go to the contracting authorities as soon as the law is passed, and as I said, the long vacathio legis allows the entire market to really prepare itself well for this law. I think I've explained all your doubts. Once again, referring to time and understanding your concern... It was one of the basic charges, so thank you. I understand that there is therefore not much of these substantive allegations. However, once again, in the discussions with experts we have talked to in recent months, most often there have been voices that we cannot wait any longer, both the market and the contracting authorities are waiting for this right. The number of orders carried out, the low levels of competitiveness, leads us to convince you to use this good time of the last seymous months, so that, however, we decide to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u47	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u48	I would like to ask you about the existence of low competitiveness in tenders in which small companies are taking part or should take part. A common reason for not participating in the tender by a small company is the lack of financial reserves that are necessary to survive the performance of the contract or contract and, consequently, to collect the payment at the very end. In view of this trend in public procurement, which results in a failure to participate in the tender, please inform whether the proposed act will improve in the scope described by me, with particular regard to strengthening the market position of these smaller companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u49	Minister! Numerous entities, including so-called. the third sector is obliged to conduct tender procedures for the purchase of fixed assets, the acquisition of which comes from grants and public grants. Will such entities receive substantive support from the Public Procurement Office under the proposed bill to reduce their dependence on commercial services of entities specialising in the conduct of tendering procedures?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u50	The discussion requested that the draft laws contained in prints 3624 and 3625 be sent to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 10:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 59 hours 10 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 30th anniversary of the death of Kazimierz Sabbat, print No 3658. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau submitted proposals: - on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs, printing No 3686, - on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 3687. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws, - amending the Law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road and rail and certain other laws, - about investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939 - Department of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk, - amending the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight and certain other laws, - amending certain laws to reduce payment congestion, - amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws, - to regulate certain matters relating to the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community under the Agreement. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints 3659, 3675, 3645, 3677, 3679, 3680 and 3660. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Quiet, please. [[And you don't scare me. Because I'm gonna have a heart attack.]] In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the case of the printing reports No 3659 and No 3677 agreed to the application of Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 44 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 30th anniversary of Kazimierz Sabbat's death (print No 3658). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 30th anniversary of the death of Kazimierz Sabbat. 30 years ago, on July 19, 1989, Kazimierz Sabbat, immigration politician, scout and social activist, President of the Republic of Poland in exile in 1986 and 1989, died. Kazimierz Sabbat served briefly in the Navy in France during World War II and was then assigned to the brigade General Stanisław Maczek, with whom he reached the UK. As vice-president of the Scout General Committee for the War and youth referee at the General Staff of the Chief Leader in London, he led the scouting work. After the end of the war, he remained in exile, engaging in the activities of numerous immigration organizations. He co-created structures to continue his scouting work outside Poland. During his presidency there is a revival of contacts with opposition activists in his homeland. Between 1967 and 1972 he was the President of the National Unification Execution, a member of the National Council in 1972 and 1976. From 1976 to 1986 he served as Prime Minister of the Polish Government in exile. He tried to unite emigration around common goals: independence, rejection of Yalta, representation of Polish interests in the West and helping the country. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 30th anniversary of the death of Kazimierz Sabbata reminds and commends his outstanding merits for his homeland. I ask the High Sejm to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 30th anniversary of Kazimierz Sabbat's death. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Information from the Minister - member of the Council of Ministers, coordinator of special services on the subject of the so-called. Podkarpacka scandals, reported by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the sources of funding for social programmes and the lack of funds for teacher increases, reported by the Circle of Poselskie Now!, - Information from the Council of Ministers on the deteriorating situation in the Polish education, resulting in an unprecedented strike by teachers, reported by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, - First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the JUST Act 447 passed by the Congress of the United States of America, submitted by the Kukiz Club.15 First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the protection of property of the Republic of Poland against claims relating to property without inheritance, print No.3448, submitted by Kukiz Club Poselski15. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Platform. Time one-minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I would like to make a formal request for a break so that you can finally provide Members and citizens with letters of support for the PiS nominates in the politicised National Judicial Council. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There's a final, final verdict, and it's just... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr. Marshal, you're breaking the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u52	Madame, your proposal is not related to the subject matter. Please, this motion... [[Voice from the courtroom: 'Cause it concerns you, marshal.]] This request cannot be regarded as a formal application. Thank you very much. [[The voice from the courtroom: Come on, Marshal!]] [[Voice from the room: What are you afraid of?]] We are voting on the request for information on the so-called. The Podkarpackie scandal. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 370 Members voted. For-- 149, against-- 221, no one's holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for information on the sources of funding for social programmes and the lack of funding for teacher increases. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 175, against - 232, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal for information on the situation in Polish education. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 177, against - 229, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a draft resolution on the JUST Act 447. Who of you is in favour of this proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 60, against - 231, holding 128. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a bill on the protection of property of the Republic of Poland against claims relating to non-inheritable property. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 49, against - 234, with 138 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the implementation of social services by the Centre for Social Services. The additional report shall be in print No 3590-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u53	Dear Marshal, High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I present a report on the draft act submitted by the President on the implementation of social services by the Social Services Centre, print No. 3040. The committee's report is contained in print No 3590-A. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy held its first reading at its meeting on 4 July and considered the draft. Amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission considered them on 18 July. The members of the committee unanimously welcomed the amendments tabled. The Commission recommends the adoption of eight amendments and asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft act presented by the President on the implementation of social services by the Centre for Social Services. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u54	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's a 3590 print. The amendments tabled in the additional report will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. 2 draft law is proposed by the applicant, among others. add points 16 and 17 in paragraph 1. 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 399, against - 25, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The draft law of the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph 5. 4. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For -401, against -23, holding down 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 6. the draft law of the applicant proposes to add point 7 in paragraph 6. 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For -399, against -19, holding down 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The draft law of the applicant proposes to add paragraph 9. 5 and 6. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For -401, against -16, halted 6. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 5. to Article. 13 (1) of the draft law, applicants propose a new wording of point 16. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 399, against - 16, holding down 5. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 32 of the draft law applicants propose a new wording of points 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 409, against - 13, with a hold of 4. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 43 of the draft law, the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For -401, against -14, halted 6. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to add to the draft law art. 78a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal...]] 426 Members voted. For - 407, against - 12, with a hold of 7. The Sejm accepted the amendment. There are no questions. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3590, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 426, against - no one, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law on social services by the social services centre. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on Police, the Law on Border Guard and the Law on Prison Service. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3641-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Additional report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on Police, the Law on Border Guard and the Law on Prison Service, print No 3543. At its 84th meeting of 17 July 2019, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 3647 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for the purpose of examining the proposal and amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 18 July, asks the High Sejm, as regards the following proposal and amendments, to accept the amendment rejecting the draft law as well as rejecting the remaining amendments 2, 4 and 5. The Commission notes that amendments 2 and 4 should be voted together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u56	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's print number 3641. We will vote first on the proposal which the committee put forward in its additional report, on the rejection of the draft law in its entirety and on the amendments. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, this draft of the President opens the way for the politicisation of uniformed services. Unity in the Police, Border Guard, Prison Service worked for 30 years. This system has passed an excellent exam. On the other hand, the President responded to the request of one of the trade unions, at the request of the "Solidarity," which does not conceal its political sympathies and proposes the introduction of a multi-reliable union in uniform services. These are armed uniforms, ladies and gentlemen. What can the politicization of these services lead to? I repeat this question once again, because I talked about it on the committee, and I talked about it in the parliament hall. Why do you take such a risky step? And why are you the president? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Storm once established order? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u58	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. A, Minister Paweł Mucha wants to speak. Please, representative of the President of Poland, Deputy Head of the President's Office Mr Paweł Mucha.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u59	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Once again, I will repeat what I have repeated many times during the first and second reading of the law. We have many countries in Europe where we have trade union pluralism in the operation of the police, among others. This is Norway, this is Germany, this is France, this is the Czech Republic, this is Belgium. Absolutely maintaining union monarchy is not a politician of the police. This is a completely incorrect and untrue argument. [[Applause]] The Police Act guarantees the apoliticity of police officers. We have fully professional police, Border Guard, Prison Service. Forming such a charge that the introduction, apart from one union organization, of any other trade union organisation is a politician, insults Polish officers and is a completely false argument. [[Applause]] Today's situation is that the social side has asked to break the union monarchy. And the introduction of the Land pluralism supported by the social side, by the NSZZ.Solidarity is also accepted by the representative headquarters, which is OPZZ, because here also, when this matter was first discussed in the High House, OPZZ was in favour of the trade union pluralism. So otherwise you could say yes: the only union headquarters that denies the possibility of introducing freedom of union coalition, this is the Forum Trade unions, in which the only monopolistic trade unions that operate in these formations are confederations today: the Police, the Border Guard and the Prison Service. Moreover, we implement the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Art. 59th Constitution provides for freedom of union coalition. We're implementing the Constitution. We act at the request of the social side and in the interest of the officers who will be able to choose whether or not they want to belong to a trade union, and if so, which one. We're breaking a monopoly that doesn't have any justification. Unfortunately, the argument which was put in the question by the honourable Member is completely incorrect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u60	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the proposal to reject the project in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 171, against - 245, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. Paragraph 7 Point 7, Article 1 67 and Article 67 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 129 Police Act, Art. 72 and Article 72 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Supervisory Authority), amending Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1306/2013 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 143th Border Guard Act, Art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. For - 145, against - 249, three Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The 67th Police Act of the applicant proposes to delete paragraph. 5. Amendments 3 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd to 4th amendments, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 174, against - 248, abstained 3. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 7 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes to amend the date of entry into force of the law. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 177, against - 248, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The whole bill. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The real author of this bill is not President Andrzej Duda, but President of the Solidarity Party of Piotr Duda. A large and politically committed union headquarters wants to enter the Police and Border Guard. The reason you're letting her do this is because in the case of an officer's protest, you want scabs... [[Voice from the hall: This is democracy.]] ...who will willingly sign with you against the will of the majority, [[Applause]] as in the case of the strike of teachers, when the agreement on behalf of.Solidarity was signed by a PiS activist. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: These are your...]] During the parliamentary debate, you spoke a lot about democracy and democracy in trade unions. [[Voice from the room: So that the children can join the M.A.]] It is worth reminding that the first person who wanted to introduce another trade union into the Police was General Czesław Kiszczak. You guys are exactly the same democrats today. Like General Czesław Kiszczak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u62	Thank you very much. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.3641, please raise your hand and press the button. [[It's not working!]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[It's not working!]] It's working. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? All in favor. [[All in favor, it's working.]] 422 Members voted. For - 245, against - 172, holding down 5. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Police Act, the Border Guard Act and the Prison Service Act. [[Applause]] We would like to return to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Commercial Companies Code Act. Third reading. The Commission proposes that the draft be adopted in print No 3561. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 3561, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 418, 6 against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act. We refer to item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 together with an analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy assumptions presented by the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2018 and a draft Commission resolution on discharge. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3594. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before you accept this discharge, I would like you to hear clearly some numbers from this speaker. Nearly PLN 30 billion has been allocated to the repayment of the debt last year. Moreover, last year the government budget deficit, which was realized, amounted to an additional PLN 10 billion. It is a vicious circle of debt of all Poles. Public debt has recently exceeded 1 trillion zloty. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u64	There's nothing to do, sir. [[Voice from the room: Indeed, indeed.]] [[The voice from the room: You've summed it up well.]] The question is asked by Mr Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The budget in good economic times does not have economic characteristics. Poles are indebted to another PLN 14 billion. Over the last three years, public debt has increased by PLN 110 billion - every month we are in debt by PLN 3 billion. In fact, we are living at the expense of future generations. This is the first case. This budget is a shortsighted budget. Economic growth is based almost exclusively on consumption with small investments and in the public sector, [[Applause]] without private investment, and on a negative balance sheet in foreign trade, which gives us a negative reference to GDP. [[That's not true.]] Centrally created funds, very numerous, are either not used or used It wasn't meant to be. There were no payments from public benefit organisations, public development, social funds saved PLN 5 billion, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the disabled were lying on our floors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u66	Thank you, Member. Mr Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, because I volunteered...]] Madam, ask the question, because we are not going to be so... Please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Fortunately, this is the last report on the implementation of the state budget by the PiS government, which is why you should answer some questions to Poles. First of all, why did you put 40 higher or brand new taxes on them? [[Applause]] Secondly, why did 14 European Union countries have a budget surplus and we still have a deficit? [[Applause]] Third, why 5.5% Poles live in extreme poverty despite great economic conditions? [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful.]] Fourthly, why, apart from the collapse in investments, did you give Poles a breakdown in public services? We have Polish army, education, health protection and justice in a mess. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[And investment.]] [[Get off the stand and don't lie impudently, woman.]] You've made Szczecin's resident happy to buy a prescription in Rzeszów. That's the kind of country you gave to the Poles. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful.]] [[Sit down and don't lie to me again.]] [[Voice from the room: How can you lie like that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u68	The rapporteur, you're welcome. Mr Andrzej Noblecht, draftsman of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finance presented to the High House a report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018. This is the best budget in the history of the last several years. [[Applause]] The debt for 2018 is the lowest in history. This is a debt of PLN 10 billion. [[Voice from the room: What?]] Let me remind you that in 2010 the government's debt amounted to 55% in relation to GDP, so we have a situation that the budget of that year has come closer to the level of the sustainable budget, for the first time in the history of a dozen years. [[Applause]] So the High House gets to vote on the best budget in recent years. We've extended the debt to 48.9%. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Oh, you're out of line.]] That's the lowest level of debt. I believe that, in the name of responsibility for the state budget, we should take this budget into the entire House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u70	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, Minister of Finance, Mr. Marshal. You can't leave it without comment.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 and on discharge for the Council of Ministers, in print No 3594, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 243, against - 180, holding off on 2. I declare that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 and on discharge for the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] Quiet, please. We return to item 4 on the agenda: Extraordinary Commission report: - on a government bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and certain other laws, - on senate draft laws amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3562-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present this report. [[Bravo, Marek.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Don't they like you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present an additional report to the committee on the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and certain other laws, print No 3251, Senate draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, print No 3134, and Senate bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, print No 3193. The Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications considered this draft at its meeting on 18 July 2019 and examined the proposed amendments. Following the withdrawal by the applicants of the two amendments, which is contained in the additional report, the committee recommends that it adopt them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Marek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u72	Please. Let me remind you, it's a 3562 print. We are voting first on the amendment contained in the report. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to know why this amendment does not take into account the possibility of imposing criminal liability on people who perform the highest state functions, who are above the law and who do not execute judgments of courts in Poland. The best example is the marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u74	There you go. In the amendment, the applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 521 (1), Art. 523 § 1a, Art. 524 § 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 268, against - 32, stopped 120. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The whole bill. The question is asked by Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We know that procedural formalism is one of the main reasons for the chronicity of criminal proceedings. Two brief examples. In the case against Kulawem, the head of one of the dangerous gangs, there were 248 volumes of files. The defendant wished to read them. Reading the first 50 lasted almost a year. And the second thing - Amber Gold, 60 volumes of judgment. I would like to ask the government how long it took to read these 60 volumes of files, first of all, and secondly, what it intends to do with these formalisms, i.e. to read judgments to an empty room and to read the full documentation of the case. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u76	Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: why, then, at the beginning of your term of office, did you delete a provision that had just been introduced by the Civic Platform and which allowed the court not to read all of these files? Today, in your bill, you are simply returning to the solution that the Platform has already introduced. But these are the consequences of unreasonable decisions at the beginning of the term of office. Mr Wróblewski, why did you not show such concern at the time when Minister Ziobro, present in the Chamber in his case, dismissed nearly 300 judges of the District Court in Warsaw to torpedo court proceedings? Why wasn't there any concern at the time? This is a living example of how to conduct an obstruction in Polish courts. You meant well, as usual. You're putting in place rules that aren't gonna improve criminal proceedings in any way. You relieve, on the one hand, the prosecution's pre-trial proceedings, but you burden the courts at the stage of court proceedings. You are introducing laws that expose Poland to lost cases at the European Court of Human Rights, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because you can lead to a situation...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u79	...that things like the famous Thomas Command... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u80	Thank you very much. Minister Marcin Warchoł will answer the questions. [[Why do you turn off the microphone, Marshal? Why do you turn off the microphone?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u81	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is worth adding to Mr Wróblewski's question that the defendant often slept in the courtroom. The court has read the 5,000 for weeks and months. The case file, and the defendant fell asleep. In another case, 21. [[But answer the question.]] In another case there were 99 court dates, there were not about 50. [[They've been waiting four years for this.]] So that this kind of situation... [[Voice from the room: Why did you withdraw this recipe?]] ...they're going back to the past. Our project is fundamentally rebuilding the Code of Criminal Procedure towards improving the system. [[But no one's criticizing it.]] What you did in 2015 was actually tragic for the system. The number of indictments filed decreased by 300%. As regards the return of indictments to pretrial proceedings, the number of such returns has increased dramatically. [[But answer the question.]] Why? Because our system isn't prepared... [[You were four years old. What have you done for four years? 4 years.]] ...for this type of shock therapy in the form of an adversarial. What we are proposing here will, above all, improve the course of action. The Amber Gold scandal. The court in this case has read, ladies and gentlemen, 25 volumes out of about 60. Four times a week, your judge reads a lot of hours to an empty courtroom. That's why if you want to end this kind of absurdity... [[And we've already finished this in our previous term of office. I told you we already brought it in.]] ...please vote on this project. [[Applause]] In another case... [[Four years ago.]] On average, in our country, a return receipt is about 4 and 6 weeks, while we want to introduce notification via fax via e-mail via telephone. We're trying to make it better. In another case, I would like to point out that very often these court dates fall, the court has no jurisdiction over the trial, the files are read over and over again for hours. In the Ciechanów District Court to an empty courtroom, ladies and gentlemen, the court has read the verdict... [[Because you wanted me to because you wanted me to...]] ...for 13 hours 55 minutes when no one was in the courtroom. We end up with this kind of absurdity. The project will generally improve criminal proceedings, as we already know. According to the information we have obtained from the courts, even 50% of the cases will be faster. That is why I am asking you to vote on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u82	Thank you. We'll proceed to the vote... [[...formal application...]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Formal conclusion...]] Please leave the podium. [[Formal conclusion.]] Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3562 with the amendment adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 249, against - 157, holding 22. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws. [[There's a formal conclusion.]] [[Okay, stop it, Boris.]] Yeah, but there's no justification. There's got to be a reason. [[But there's a reason, what kind of...]] We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on Law on Lawyers and the Law on Legal Counsels. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3568. The Commission also presents minority proposals on which we will vote first. In the 1st minority application, applicants shall propose a different wording of the following Article. 79a Law on Lawyer. The question is raised by Boris Budka, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u83	High Izbo! I have just tried to make a formal request for a recess and a request to your Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin to explain to Minister Zbigniew Ziobra that, together in the last term of office, at the request of Minister Gowin...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u84	Mr President, please ask a question about the request for minorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u85	...we've made changes that Mr. Ziobro later deleted...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u86	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are deviated from the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u87	...and now these changes of their own will try to fix them. Have the courage to admit your own mistakes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u88	Mr President, I draw your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u89	And you, Marshal... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u90	I would like to draw your attention again to this article. 175. Let me see that article. [[Mr. Marshal, you've got to be kidding me.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u91	I would like to point out to you that once again you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u92	Right now, I have to assume that you're... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You must be joking.]] I'm calling you into order under Art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3. [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Then there will be a financial penalty. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 174, against - 233, two Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Voice from the room: How about some information, Marshal?]] In the second minority application, applicants shall propose a different wording of the following Article. 37 Laws on Legal Counsels. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the second minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 184, against - 242, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. There are questions in front of the whole thing. Member Paweł Grabowski, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna ask you a question in front of the whole thing. This is a good bill, of course we will vote in favour, but I cannot understand why you rejected the proposals of minorities, which include. assume to allow lawyers and lawyers to continue to exercise the right to be an applicant in a situation where, for example, they may not take the exam for reasons beyond their control. However, I very much hope that these changes will be introduced in the Senate, and that this bill will be revised and corrected so that applicants who, for objective reasons, because of the adversity of fate, cannot take the bar exam can simply carry out their profession for another year until the next entrance to the exam. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u94	Thank you. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 3568, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. They were all in favour. The Seym passed a bill. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the National Defence Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print 3601-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Buczak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report from the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and some other laws, print No 3521. Sejm for the 84th meeting on 17 July this year. again referred the draft law contained in print No 3601 to the National Defence Commission for the purpose of considering the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on National Defence after considering the amendments at its meeting on 18 July this year. requests that amendments be adopted from 5 to 10 and 17 and 18 and that amendments be rejected from 1 to 4 and from 11 to 16. Of course, the committee calls for the bill to be adopted in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u96	Thank you. We are voting first on the amendments tabled in the report. Amendments 1 to 4 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State. In the first amendment to Article. 4 applicants propose to add point 16a. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u97	High Izbo! In this amendment we want to supplement the catalogue of people who can apply for the status of a mission veteran outside the country for servicers of military equipment. These are people who were on military missions who helped preserve equipment, lived in bases with Polish soldiers. They're off the bill today. This is the amendment we have tabled and we have seen the truth about respect for people who put health and life at risk for the Republic of Poland, what respect PiS politicians have for them. The authority that willingly gives away apanas, generously gives away privileges to its ministers, to its officers, does not want to grant privileges to people who really risked their lives in service for their homeland. Shame. There is still time to come to our senses, there is still time to appreciate those people who served Poland in real terms outside our country, serving in peaceful missions. You guys really need to come to your senses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u98	Deputy Minister of Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! These words by Mr Kierwiński are absolutely dishonest and unlawful. Ladies and gentlemen! Polish soldiers serve outside our country, endanger their lives, but their support is also civilian workers of the Ministry of National Defence or other entities with which the Ministry of National Defence has signed civil law agreements. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no legal basis to support in this way those who supported the Polish military quotas that supported the PKW on foreign missions. The Ministry of National Defence commissioned tasks, the Ministry of National Defence paid for these tasks. This concerns among others. companies such as Rosomak SA, WB Electronics, Bumar-Łabędy or more DGT sp. z o.o. No country - repeat: no country - among others. The United States does not give veteran authority to its collaborators who are responsible for handling the equipment. So, Mr President, your words are absolutely unlawful and dishonest. With regard to the Veterans Act itself, ladies and gentlemen, this law is the result of talks, consultations and many, many meetings with the veterans' community. This is a bill that meets the expectations of the veterans. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u100	Thank you. We'll proceed to the vote... [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] I don't see why not. [[You don't see much at all. That's your problem.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 185, against - 227, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 22 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 6. Amendments 3, 4 and 11 to 16 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u101	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mariusz Błaszczak said that veterans are our good national. We agree, but these nine amendments to this law concern the possibility of taking care of a wider group of veterans affected. We are talking about veterans who are injured, who are only 857 in our country. This law restricts the possibility of helping veterans victims because it provides for a ceiling for health damage - a minimum of 30%, i.e. only 120 people. So many people will be able to benefit from those benefits that really belong to all veterans affected. These are benefits that give them the opportunity to benefit from an additional rehabilitation tournament. Minister, why can't veterans be used? [[♪ The bell ♪]] of which to a wider extent, from a minimum of 10% What's wrong with your health? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u102	Thank you, Member. Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The state from the opposition is now pouring out crocodile tears, talking about how you would like to embrace veterans soldiers to a wider extent. In the meantime, it's you guys... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] ...in 2011 you passed this law, which is now being amended. Then you didn't remember the civilian workers, [[Applause]] You didn't remember to take more care of the veterans' soldiers. [[Get to the point.]] This amendment was prepared in close agreement with the veterans. She responds to the expectations of the veterans. This is the extent that Polish Army soldiers expect. But that's another performance. A few moments ago, the Member of the opposition spoke of the fact that the level of poverty supposedly increases in Poland, there is a higher deficit, higher debt. You spoke against the facts, because the level of poverty in Poland is falling... [[Voice from the room: CUS.]] ...and debt and deficit are lower. [[Voice from the room: CUS!]] These are record values for the state budget. 10 billion and 120 billion PLN - the figures speak for themselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u104	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of this. Fixes, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. Za - 186, against - 236, abstained 4. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Police Act of the applicant proposes a different wording of point 2. This amendment is linked to the 6th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 5 and 6, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 408, against - 4 stopped 18. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 7th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 6a to the draft amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 405, no one voted against, with 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 9b (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 9 - joint part - Act on the rules of use or residence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland outside the borders of the State, the applicant proposes that this provision should also apply to the psychophysical condition. Amendment 9 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 8 and 9, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 408, against - 1, holding 18. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. 11a The law on public-funded healthcare provision is proposed by applicants, inter alia. the other wording of paragraph. 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 409, no one voted against, 18. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 13a to the draft amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 411, no one voted against, with 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 18th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 18 draft amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Who of you is in favour of the 18th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 408, no one voted against, 20 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Member of the non-member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Veterans expected such a law, such a change, such care of the Polish state, because the role of the state is to care for veterans and victims of war activities outside Poland. This is an activity that should not surprise, and I am very pleased that during the work of the Committee on National Defence, this law has been passed virtually unanimously, in addition to small amendments. But there's a bucket of cold water. Just now, representatives of the Civic Platform were talking about how to respect veterans. I wanted to read you two sentences, honourable colleagues from the Civic Platform: On behalf of the insurgents, most of the insurgents of war, we ask the President to respond favorably to our request so that we do not have to wander around Warsaw clinics for the rest of our days. [[Applause, ringtone]] The President of Warsaw's capital city is closing down... [[Voice from the room: This is not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u107	... clinics for insurgents and veterans of Warsaw. Disgraceful! [[The voice from the hall: shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u108	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Hey.]] [[Marek, you're lying.]] [[Voice from the hall: Marcus, what is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u109	Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not only veterans are those who deserve respect, for the care of the Polish state special, because they are sent very often not in Polish interests, but in the interests of other countries on very dangerous missions. Unfortunately, over the past 30 years, the Polish army was often thought of as an expedition corps on foreign services instead of as a real force to defend our country. However, it must be said that each country is based on respect for the uniform, respect for which today also very many military, very many soldiers are begging, because the next governments, the next civilian government treats just the military as their own political toys. And the army today appeals: Enough of this, enough of this fun uniform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u110	Mr Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, speaking of my colleague, Mr Jakubiak, I would like to say that you are speaking from this speaker not really, because what you have quoted does not apply to veterans outside the country, but to veterans. These are two different stories. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's what he was saying.]] But I would also like to address the words of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. Minister! In 2011, the Civic Platform and the PSL passed the Veterans Act. [[Applause]] In 2015, we prepared an amendment to this law for you. Why did you wait over four years for her to... [[You were eight years old.]] ...to implement and help these veterans who are injured outside the country? [[You were eight years old.]] But that's history. We want to increase the possibility of helping, especially for veterans injured who suffer more than 10% health damage We're already down to that ceiling. This is less than 600 people in our country. Why don't we help them, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u112	Thank you. Minister Skurkiewicz wants to speak. Here you go, Deputy Minister of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is a very important act in terms of support. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the result of hours, hundreds of hours spent talking to veterans. This is a law resulting from a kind of consensus and agreement, ladies and gentlemen. This law gives free tournaments to rehabilitation and adaptation veterans who have a health loss of more than 30%. This law gives Veterans of other services: SWW, SKW, State Fire Service, SOP, Internal Security Agency, also the possibility to use free medical-profiling turnups. This law also gives a special addition, the addition of a veteran to those who have the lowest health damage, from 1% to 9%, and so far it has not been possible. In addition, we increase the benefits for veterans affected in particular segments, with individual percentages of health damage. Ladies and gentlemen! We're introducing comprehensive medical care. This medical care, whether it's 1% or not. health damage or 10% , 25% or 110% , is free for everyone in connection with the wounds sustained, in connection with those wounds or injuries that have been sustained on missions outside the country. Ladies and gentlemen! We also extend the catalogue of the possibility of using free communication. We also give the opportunity to continue learning, we give the opportunity to develop in the other direction of learning to veterans, if they want to expand, deepen their knowledge. [[But why 30%?]] That's what we do. Ladies and gentlemen! There will also be free medications for all... [[Not for everyone.]] ...who have a health injury of more than 30%. So this is a comprehensive approach. And let me repeat: these are agreements, these are talks, these are negotiations, these are also agreements with the environment of victims, veterans who, on behalf of the Republic of Poland, carried out their duties outside the borders of the country. Ladies and gentlemen! But it's just one element, because we're also in the form of so-called projects. softly support the veterans' environment, support associations that help veterans. Through grant competitions each year not less than PLN 1.5 million are allocated, among others. to provide rehabilitation tournaments to those who have lower health losses than 30%. That's what NGOs do. This is also done by associations that take care of veterans every day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u114	Thank you. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of your Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 3601, together with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the state borders and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Senate bill amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. The additional committee report is in print No 3574-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska made a declaration to withdraw the amendment she tabled, which would obviously speed up the legislative process. If this will is sustained, I ask the committee to favor our project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u116	Thank you. We are voting first on the amendment presented in the additional report. In this amendment, the applicant proposes a new wording of the draft law. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render the committee's proposal unobtrusive. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u117	On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I want to talk about this project. Mr. Tomasz Piesiecki, who is sitting at the gallery, has been receiving a pension for many years in connection with the accident. When the guarantee sum was exhausted, he was left with no means to live. The case was dealt with by the Ombudsman and in 2017 the Senate prepared a draft law. He waited for two years to be considered. [[And you're eight years old...]] Mr Grzegorz Piesiecki also waited two years for this solution. But this submission doesn't solve the whole problem. Mr. Grzegorz and some people will benefit from this solution. In order for these people to benefit from the solution contained in the submission, I withdraw this amendment, but we look forward to resolving this problem. Mr. Thomas Piesiecki! You're a hero. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u118	Thank you, Member. We're voting. Who of your Members is in favour of the amendment and, therefore, in favour of adopting the bill as proposed by the applicant, raise your hand and press the button. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I wanted to withdraw.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, I have withdrawn this amendment.]] Did you withdraw the amendment? [[Yes.]] [[You have to listen, don't be afraid of the opposition.]] So we don't have to vote. Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[The vote is not over yet.]] Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3574 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For -415, against -6, holding down 3. The Sejm has passed a law on the special powers of victims in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established on the basis of the provisions in force before 1 January 2006. We're looking at item 9 of the agenda... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Like a house of cards...]] [[You can't hear anything at all.]] There's a formal conclusion. Mr Michael Szczerba. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal motion because lying can't be a way to get a place on the Law and Justice list. [[Sit down.]] Mr. Marshal! Warsaw's capital city is 100% financed Veterans' clinics at ul. Lithuania. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] The city of Warsaw created a special unit for combatants at the Prague Hospital. The city of Warsaw creates a daily support house for Warsaw insurgents. Mr Jakubiak is lying. [[Applause]] I am applying to refer Mr Jakubiak to the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u120	No, sir, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u121	A lie... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u122	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. I'm so sorry, sir. I would like to draw your attention to the article. 175 Rules that you use the procedure for formal proposals to debate and discuss. [[But Mr. Marshal, I've been accused of lying.]] Thank you very much. We are returning to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on ports and marinas and some other laws. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3636. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act no.366, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 420, no one voted against, two Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Ports and Seaports and some other laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the Government bill on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. Third reading. The additional report shall be in print No 3595-A. I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u123	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This law closes the process of protecting Polish energy consumers from the drastic rise in electricity prices. In this case, energy-intensive companies will be protected. This is very important both for maintaining the competitiveness of our companies and for the sustainability of the jobs of people employed in these companies and all those who work in the jobs created in the energy-intensive industry. The Commission recommends adopting the amendments tabled at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u124	Thank you. It's about print 3595. The amendments tabled in the additional report will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. 5 applicants propose the new wording of point 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 310, no one voted against, with 112 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 2. amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1, Article 22 (1) and Article. 27 are editorial and legislative. Amendments 3 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is requesting their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd to 4th amendments, please raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For -422, against - no one, the 1st Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. There are questions in front of the whole thing. Member Robert Winnicki, Member of the Commission. [[Mr. Marshal, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation, not associated. Let me remind you, the Confederation.]] Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u125	Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation, Marshal. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Regarding the situation in energy: the climate package unspoken, huge costs for each Polish taxpayer, because it de facto means subsidies from the budget. After six months in Tauron Extraction 2.5 km late, in terms of excavations, 460 million zlotys were launched. Krupinski Mine to liquidate. Record imports of coal from Russia plus, precisely, compensation, subsidies, i.e. billions more coming from the Polish budget, because you do not have the courage to defend Polish energy internationally. That's the truth, and we all have to pay for it today, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u126	We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, print No. 3595, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Za - 420, against - 1 held back 6. The Sejm passed a law on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law on accessibility for people with special needs. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft law, print No 3644. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft law from this printing, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 415, no one was against, two stopped. The Sejm passed a law on accessibility for people with special needs. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Social Assistance and the Law on Mental Health. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3638-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Social Assistance and the Act on Mental Health Protection, print No 3524. The Social Policy and Family Committee, having considered the amendments at its meeting on 18 July 2019, did not accept two of the amendments tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u128	Thank you. Remind me, it's print number 3638. We vote on the amendments first. Both amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Social Assistance Act. In the first amendment to Article. 52 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 79, against - 230, with a hold of 104. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 53 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 41, against - 354, the 22. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, print No 3638, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 414, against - 3, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Social Assistance Act and the Mental Health Act. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft law, print No 3599. The question is asked by Boris Budka, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u129	Thank you. I have a question for the government. Do you think that this good bill is capable of halting the very negative phenomenon that we have seen since last year, the increase in national poverty by 25%? Just now, one of the ministers in an absolutely untrue way spoke about the inhibition of this phenomenon. Compared to 2017, the rate of poverty increased by 25% in Poland. These are the data provided by the Central Statistical Office. I have one more request for you. After these data are provided, do not go to the Central Statistical Office, but go to the real fight against poverty in Poland, because as you can see, the increase in the scale of poverty is 25%. Only last year. It's hard data from the CUS. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Stop talking nonsense.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u130	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, print 3599, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. Za-420, against-three, holding off on three. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Intelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Carboy Service, and their families and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be printed 3643-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Rafał Mucha to present this report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour and pleasure to present an additional report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Carboy Service and Prison Service and their families and some other laws, print No 3604. 20 amendments were tabled during the second reading of the draft. At its 84th meeting of 17 July 2019, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3643 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Administrative and Home Affairs Commission, having considered the amendments at its meeting on 18 July 2019, requests that all amendments tabled at second reading be rejected. The Commission notes that amendments 1, 2, 3 and 18 should be voted on jointly, on amendments 8 and 9. Whereas amendments 11 and 12 should be voted jointly; whereas amendments 14 and 15 should be voted jointly; whereas amendments 16 and 17 should also be voted jointly; The proposal submitted to the High House is a favourable solution and supported by officials and soldiers, which is the implementation of previous commitments. High Seym! The Commission asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u132	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's printing number 3643. We are voting first on the amendments set out in the additional report. Amendments 1, 2 and 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the retirement provision of officers. In the first amendment to Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the introduction into the calculation. Amendments 2, 3 and 18 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 18, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 184, against - 239, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendments 4 to 7 were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Police Act. In the 4th amendment to the article. 33 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. Amendments 5 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Szymański.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u133	Thank you very much. High Izbo! The contested law is a consequence of agreements concluded in November 2018 after 4 years of unsuccessful attempts to talk between the union party of uniformed services and the government. This agreement was preceded by a wave of protests which took place at the turn of the year through Polish cities, in which tens of thousands of officers participated. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment we make meets the expectations of the unions of uniform services and seeks to shorten the settlement period after which benefits can be paid, the cash compensation, from 6 to 3 months. But really, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the entire House: why do you think the changes to reverse pension reform in uniform services are being conducted at the last session of the Sejm? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u134	What do you mean, a question to the whole House, what does that mean? [[Joy in the Chamber]] That is to say, neither from a specific representative nor to the applicant nor to the rapporteur nor to the government. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 4, 5 and 6, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 174, against - 241, with a hold of 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a new amendment to Article. 115a. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 172, against - 229, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 8, 9 and 10 were tabled in Article. 3 draft amending act containing amendments to the Border Guard Act. In the 8th amendment to the article. 37 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. This amendment is linked to the 9th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 8 and 9, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 184, against - 239, with 4. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. 37 The applicants propose to delete the added paragraph. 3b. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Vote: 416 Members. For - 182, against - 230, with 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 11, 12 and 13. they are notified to Article. 6 draft amending act containing amendments to the Prison Service Act. In the 11th amendment to the article. 121 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. Amendment 12 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is adopting Amendments 11 and 12, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 183, against - 237, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 13th amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1 and 2 in the following Article: 195b. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 180, against - 233, stopped 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 14 and 15 are tabled in Article. 7 draft amending act, including amendments to the Law on the State Protection Service. In the 14th amendment to the article. 81 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. This amendment is linked to the 15th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 14 and 15, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 182, against - 239, with 4. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendments 16 and 17. they are notified to Article. 8 draft amending act, including amendments to the Marshal's Guard Act. In the 16th amendment to the article. 23 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 2. Amendment 17 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 16 and 17, raise your hand and press the button. [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: It's working.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 179, against - 241, the 4. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Am I talking too fast? The machine doesn't keep up? The 18th amendment has already been examined. In the 19th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 24 draft amending act. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 185, against - 240, stopped 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 25a to the draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 20th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 184, against - 232, there were 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The whole bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.3643 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For -422, against -3 stopped 4. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Pension Provision of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law on amending the Law on oil stocks, oil products and natural gas and on the principles of dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft law, print No 3646. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the print project 3646, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For -415, against -6, with 4. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on oil stocks, oil products and natural gas and the principles of dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law. We return to the review of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. During the second reading discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Sejm decided to join the third reading without referring this draft law back to the committee. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law, print No 3623, and also presents a minority proposal. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a fundamental question. Why was the project not subject to public consultation? This project violates the law on the property rights of citizens. This is very important. I understand that we are talking about investments that are also needed, but we cannot limit property rights in this case. We cannot submit this project to such a process that makes citizens' rights violated, they have no voice and can be said for them how much they are owed for their property. Speaking of which, I'd like to ask, why don't you respect court decisions? You're not publishing a judgment that should be published. You're not above the law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u136	Thank you, Member. We are voting on the motion to reject the bill. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who stopped it? 429 Members voted. For - 168, against - 261, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the sole request of a minority, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 1. There are questions. The question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What's the bill for? Firstly, it is a laurel for the government which prepared this type of law in 2009. Today we don't know what to do, so we're looking for a solution. Secondly, this law is proof of the inability and incompetence of the rulers. The current President at the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury said that there was nothing we could do with the current state of law. The third, worst case - we are back to the state amended by the Christmas laws in 1989. We're back to the generation of property protection. And now the question is, why should we treat Kowalski, whom we are taking under construction of the installation, worse than anyone else? Why can't he get fair compensation? Perhaps - as one of the people who represents the current authorities - said - to make it cheaper. To build a gas pipeline cheaper, he has to pay Kowalski. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Why?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u138	Thank you very much. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For 171, against 254, holding down 3. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 3623, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 269, against - 142, with a hold of 14. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the government draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3652. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 3652, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -422, against -2, holding down 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Senate draft law on combating food waste. The committee's report is in print No 3655-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Paweł Kobylinski to present a report to the committee. Is Mr Kobylinski in the room? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u139	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report from the Committee on Economics and Development on the Senate bill on combating food waste. At the meeting on 16 July, we adopted two amendments. We recommend voting for them as well as for the entire bill. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also important to thank all the parliamentary clubs who voted unanimously in favour of this law at the committee's meeting, unanimously supporting this proposal. I would like to thank Senator Augustine, who has also supported the activities of the subcommittee every time. I would like to thank Minister Ardanowski, the Sejm Bureau, on behalf of more than 20,000. the persons who signed the petition to vote on the bill at this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, nine million tons of food are wasted a year. That's over 200 kilos per person. Therefore, the Sejm at this meeting will do something really useful, morally very well assessed and at the same time ecologically, because in food production we also produce a lot of pollution. Once again, thank you very much to all those who have been involved in the process of drafting this law. We recommend voting in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u140	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's a print number 3655. We are voting first on the amendments set out in the additional report. In the first amendment to Article. 5 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 188, against - 238, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 17. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am a little surprised by this vote that this amendment was rejected because it was an amendment that we all agreed together on, that it was reasonable and reasonable. [[No, we did not vote on it at the committee meeting at all, Mr President.]] We voted, and if you were in committee, you'd know. You weren't at the committee meeting. You'd have to go to committee meetings then you'd know we voted. [[Applause]] [[But you can watch it, we didn't vote on it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u142	But ask me a question about the amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's not discuss this, this is not the time for discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u143	I hope... Maybe you've got the wrong committee. I'm so sorry, well, it happens.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u144	Madam, ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u145	I therefore ask you to accept the second amendment. The second amendment makes it possible for the smallest entrepreneurs and those who own 250-metre stores to have 3 years to prepare for this bill to prepare for reporting, to prepare the appropriate computer programs. That's why I'm asking. I hope PiS changes his mind once, not every minute. I hope that this amendment will, however, remain [[♪ The bell ♪]] Accepted... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[I'm not on this committee, but you can check everything on the Internet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u146	Thank you, sir, but that was not a question. Minister Krzysztof Ardanowski requests the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is indeed drawn up in consensus. This also shows that, when it comes to fundamental, fundamental issues, and food is not wasted, it should definitely be something that we have in common. There's too much hunger in the world, too many tragedies for us to waste food without even knowing it. This also applies to our individual consumer choices and decisions. The waste of food, on the other hand, is illogical, immoral, unethical, and to me it is also a sin. That's why this bill, despite the fact that it was filed by the opposition, will also be supported by our club. On the other hand, when it comes to the records that are in the bill, they are sufficient. Now it is said that we want to save food, we do not want to let it be wasted. But at the same time, we want to blur it away so that it takes years to prepare for it. This food must be protected immediately after the bill is adopted, which is why this amendment is absolutely unnecessary. On the other hand, I ask everyone to vote in favour over the entire bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u148	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For -190, against - 228, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. There's a question. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because not everyone knew what the first amendment was about, because on the second issue I said... [[That's the question to the whole thing.]] ...let me remind you that the idea was that in the event that a non-governmental organization that signed a contract with a store would not receive the food that would be prepared for them, the store that fulfilled all its obligations, it would not have to pay for the organisation with which it signed not to receive the food. I think it's sick that someone who does all their chores, and not because of him, this food has not been picked up, has to pay twice for it. It's just illogical. And I'm sorry that you just haven't been able to understand this simple thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u150	We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 3655, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 427, 1 against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law against food waste. We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3592-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u151	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws, print No 3541 and 3592. The Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications considered and adopted 14 amendments tabled to the bill at second reading at its meeting on 18 July. The Commission proposes that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u152	Thank you. In an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. Let me remind you, it's a 3592 print. Amendments 1 to 7 concern amendments to the Commercial Companies Code Act. In the first amendment to Article. 328 § 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 6. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For -294, against -100, 16. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 328 (5) applicants propose to add a new wording to points 2 and 3. This amendment is combined with the 3rd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 266, against - 131, the 15. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 328 applicants propose a new wording § 2. We will consider this amendment in conjunction with amendments 5 to 8. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th to 8th amendments, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 261, against - 140, holding 18. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose an amendment to Article. Point 9 (3) (a) and the draft amending act. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 261, against - 137, with a hold of 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. Point 9 (6) of the draft amending act. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 267, against - 138, with 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 14 of the draft amending act propose that the applicant be added paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 259, against - 137, the 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 20. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 12th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 263, against - 145, holding 18. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment, the applicant proposes the addition of Article. 20a. This amendment is linked to the 14th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 13 and 14, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For-- 256. Against - 142. 18 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, print No. 3592, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For-- 246. Against 159. It's holding off - 19. The Sejm passed a law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft act on supplementary services for people unable to live independently. Third reading. This report has a print number 3676-A. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, in print No 3676-A, on the Government's draft Supplementary Provision Act for people unable to live independently. This law grants 500 PLN of benefits to persons over 18 years of age who have a judgment on incapacity for self-existence, which from public funds receive benefits not higher than 1100 PLN. This is the weakest group of people with disabilities who are waiting for government support. We keep our word. We're working on this bill at the 84th session of the Sejm. 20 amendments were tabled at second reading. We discussed the amendments tabled at the committee meeting on 18 July. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy recommends adopting two amendments, amendments 13 and 14 and rejecting 18 amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u154	Thank you. It's about print number 3676. The minority proposal and the amendments are voted first. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 2. Two and three. Amendments 4 to 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. Their adoption will render minority proposals and amendments 2 and 3 futile. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Why does the government insist on a solution that is perceived as so harmful and unfair, i.e. making the right to this benefit dependent on the income threshold of PLN 1100? [[Applause]] Many family benefits paid in an incomparably larger scale do not depend on any income threshold. The supplementary pension benefits paid out just before the elections to the European Parliament also affected the accounts of the richest Poles, and here we introduce dependence on the income threshold of PLN 1100. This means that many people in a very difficult situation will not be entitled to benefit from this benefit. These amendments are proposed to abandon the income threshold, [[Applause]] so that any person who is unable to exist alone can actually benefit from this benefit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u156	Thank you. Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz requests the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the moment, we are working on a law that is very important for many people with disabilities. The discussions that are here are also being watched by the environment of people with disabilities and I would very much like us not to mislead them because they get very different messages. There is no income threshold, as you know perfectly well, but that in order to receive this benefit, one must actually be unable to exist alone... [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: No, it is not.]] ...and at the same time the benefit shall be granted to entitled persons who do not have the right to a public-funded cash benefit or the sum of those non-one-off benefits... [[It's not... what are you saying?]] ...including the amount paid by foreign pension institutions, excluding care allowance and other allowances and benefits paid together with that benefit under separate provisions prior to deduction, deductions, reductions, shall not exceed the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity to work. [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] This is a quote from the bill. Show me where it says 1100 zloty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: There is a threshold!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u158	Member of Sławomir Infantry in correction mode. Please. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u159	Mr. Marshal! I can't believe my ears. Just now Mrs Wargock said: 1100 PLN. [[Applause]] Whose income does not exceed PLN 1100? The Minister reads: the lowest pension due to incapacity for work, i.e. PLN 1100. Then what is it? If anyone has PLN 1115, they will not receive this benefit. At the committee meeting, people who were not allowed to be consulted were very clear about this because there was no public consultation. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] And they showed how a coincidence of two benefits, i.e. social and survivor's pensions after a deceased parent, precludes people who, of course, would be the recipients of this benefit. So there is a very harmful and unfair income threshold, because I will remind you, before the elections to the European Parliament, you have unscrupulously transferred these additional benefits to the account also dozens of Poles on the list of the wealthiest Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u160	Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One sentence. Please state, here is the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work because it is valued every year. In March, we don't know how much it's going to be... [[Voice from the room: But how much?]] [[Is that the threshold or isn't there a threshold?]] ...so telling people with disabilities that this is supposed to be 1100 PLN in rigidity, is a slight abuse. [[Voice from the room: But it doesn't matter.]] [[Don't lie to me.]] [[Voice from the room: Do you understand the base or not?]] Second thing. Ladies and gentlemen, if you had introduced this witness earlier when you were in charge, we could have gone a step further today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Let them save their money in the Beares.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u162	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 4 to 9 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 186, against - 237, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. [[She stayed for her money.]] In the sole request of a minority to Article. 2 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The question is asked by Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I'm asking you to do this because you've often shown in this courtroom that you have the power to do this. Today I expect this from you, on behalf of thousands of people with disabilities, people who are unable to exist on their own. It sounded today that this income criterion will be calculated on the lowest pension, on the pension, which amounts to PLN 1100. The citizens' platform's proposal was to make it without limitation. On the other hand, we are asking that this be counted from the lowest wage, from PLN 2100. Mr. President! Please, if you are concerned about the welfare of those unable to exist alone, so that you can show today that this is very important. This is important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for people who listen to us and watch us today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u164	Thank you, Member. Mr Dorota Sunday has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u165	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. President! I have a favor to ask. Ask the Vice Minister who doesn't understand what he's talking about, what my brother's situation is. My brother's turning 40. My 84-year-old mom takes care of him. The brother received a pension from a dead father who worked hard in Poland for 35 years. And today you exclude him from this aid because he has a pension from his father, which is more than PLN 1100. [[How can you rule out what's missing?]] Is that true? My brother is excluded from this help, even though he is incapable of independent existence, he is deeply mentally impaired. And you're taking that money away from him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u166	Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like I said, it's a shame you didn't think about it earlier, just today. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Is he going to get it or not? Is he gonna get his pension or not?]] As for your brother, of course he also has a social pension, because if he's disabled from birth... [[You're embarrassing yourself.]] ...or he got disability as a kid, he gets a social pension as well. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Will he get 500+ or not?]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Shame on you.]] I wanted to tell you that the only way to combine two benefits is to combine a social pension with a family pension. For all other benefits we choose one benefit. [[Voice from the room: That's not the answer.]] Here we can combine two benefits and of course... [[But that's enough.]] [[Shame! Shame!]] Once again, Madam: it is a pity that this Member's sensitivity did not show up five years ago, 10 years ago, 15 years ago. [[Applause]] [[700 million PLN.]] [[Voice from the room: Insolent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u168	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, this is insolence.]] [[Eight years.]] [[Voice from the room: 4 years.]] [[Voice from the gym: You didn't give anything.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I ask you to reprimand this gentleman because he is insolent.]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] 419 Members voted. For - 182, against - 237, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second amendment to the article. 2 (2) The applicant shall propose to delete point 6. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. There's a question. Mr Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u169	High Izbo! This is a really embarrassing show. You're sitting here with 460 people including me, and everyone came here with their acquis, thousands of people voted for it, and it's really hard to assume that we're stupid. This way of thinking, and this way, I'm sorry, it's also insulting our intelligence to bully us. [[Applause]] How do you say there's no income criterion? How can one say that a family pension does not deprive someone who has a social pension, income and that benefit of 500+, supplemental? If these two benefits are higher than PLN 1100, the supplementary benefit will not go to the person unable to exist alone. [[Applause]] It's true, Minister, and no lies can eclipse it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you doing this? [[Applause]] [[Eight years.]] [[Voice from the room: 4 years.]] [[PSL 24 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u170	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! It has happened several times that you have cut the embarrassing spectacle that your fellow Members have served here. I think there's a moment now, too. After all, what Minister Michałkiewicz presents here, the minister who is to open one of the Lublin letters to the Sejm in these elections... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...this is embarrassing, Mr. President, at the worst. [[It's embarrassing what you're doing.]] If you want to have the situation of many people with disabilities on your conscience, go ahead and do so. There's one last moment... [[What are you talking about?]] ...to do something about it before the vote on the whole thing, Mr. President. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[First of all, not over the whole...]] [[You'll say hello to Janek Bure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u172	Minister Boris-Raccoon requests the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u173	Thank you very much, Marshal. I wanted to speak at the very end, but I hope that maybe I will make some of you at least think about the next questions. I think I can say that I have listened humbly to your speeches so far, although it has not been easy. I can imagine... [[Voice from the hall: That Michalkiewicz is lying.]] ...how the carers and parents of these completely independent people felt at the moment. I met with them yesterday, ladies and gentlemen. They asked... [[Game in the O.R.]] No, it's not the first time I've met them. I have been, ladies and gentlemen, for a month now, and you know very well that the former Minister was empathetic and met with all the environments, [[Applause]] I didn't think I'd mention you, Minister Michalkiewicz. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: We saw in the Sejm, we saw.]] [[...40 days.]] After yesterday's meeting with the community of carers and parents with disabilities, I would like to ask you to limit your speeches on their behalf so that these speeches are not political. I guess you can't. I wanted to, ladies and gentlemen... [[You've chosen a few people's environment again?]] I wanted to remind you, ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] 2015 You spent 15 400 million to support people with disabilities. [[Voice from the room: What are you doing about it?]] In 2018 this is already PLN 19 400 million. [[Voice from the room: Right.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is four billion more, [[Applause]] people with disabilities have been waiting for each year. What was the reality in 2015? Less than PLN 740 gross social pension for disabled persons unable to work. These were your offers for disabled people unable to work. 153 PLN, ladies and gentlemen, 153 PLN... [[How much now? 180?]] ...care allowance, which you haven't changed in years... [[Voice from the room: 12 years, 12 years.]] ...and a special welfare allowance and guardian's allowance, both at the same level from the moment of introduction, i.e. PLN 709. As soon as the United Right Government was sworn in, it took the first of many decisions to support people with disabilities. It concerned this aid, which was most important, helping children with disabilities. [[You don't read the paper. You'll answer the questions.]] You won't tell me what to talk about because I have 15 minutes and I have the right to... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] ...say what I want to say. February 11th... [[Minister, questions.]] [[Voice from the room: For questions.]] ... 2016 [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The Sejm adopted a law on the introduction of 500+ to the second child with an enlarged income criterion for families with disabled children. From 1 July this year we expanded this group from 220 to 300 thousand. Since July 1st this year all families with children with disabilities... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] ...up to the age of 18 are supported by 500+. The money is addressed to them, and so is the money. Unlike you, we regularly raise benefits for people with disabilities and carers. [[Applause]] We listen to the voices of this environment. One of the demands of this group, I remind you, was to equalize the social pension to the level of the lowest pension paid by the Social Security Office. We did it. It was this group's priority, and we did it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Answer me, stop reading.]] From 1 September 2018, the Act entered into force with effect from 1 June, increasing the social pension to 100% of the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work. [[Voice in the room: Answer the questions.]] Since March this year it is already 1100 PLN. For the first time in 12 years, we've raised our altitude... [[No, you have to read it from the card.]] ...care allowance. This is an allowance for over 911 thousand. Recipients. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] In 2015, the benefit was PLN 153. From November this year this allowance will amount to PLN 215.84. That's a 40% raise. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] For the first time since the introduction, we have raised the special welfare allowance and the caretaker's allowance, each at once by 20%. To this include 226 PLN of social and health contributions, also paid from the state budget. [[It's our decision.]] The amount of another benefit, another benefit, so important for parents with disabilities, care provision, was associated with an increase in the minimum wage. The good economic situation, low unemployment, the increase in average and lowest wages allowed us to value the care provision. I will just say that in 2019 the care provision amounts to PLN 1583 net, i.e. by PLN 383 more than in 2015 [[Applause]] [[Because we're connected to the lowest national.]] Disgusted by states' pensions+ reached all those who have social pensions and those who have pensions. [[Applause]] And now for last. About 0.5 million adults in Poland 100% He's dedicated to taking care of his loved ones, he can't work. And we remember that work is not only a source of income, but, above all, a dignified realization of your dreams. [[That's it. That's it. That's it.]] These are people for whom daily activities are the most difficult challenge... [[Infantry quote.]] [[That's why the kids stayed home and didn't go to school, right?]] ...and in satisfying the basic needs of life, they are on their guardians. It is thanks to the Law and Justice that these people today have a pension of PLN 1100 and these pensions will be valued annually. You didn't think of that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voice from the room: And we left the money.]] We are talking, Madam, about people unable to exist alone, these are people who will not come to the Sejm... [[Voice from the room: Because they are forbidden.]] [[Voice from the room: 80 PLN change.]] ...they won't go to the parliamentary office and claim their rights. [[That's why you do what you want with them.]] Yesterday I listened to the guardians and parents of these people. They don't participate in protests, they wait in their homes in silence until someone hears them. [[That's what they're complaining about.]] That's what we're asking for. Along with them are loved ones who look after them every day, and often a mother or father from these adult children have not yet heard the word "mama" or "tata" because their adult child, for example. He can't talk. [[What are you talking about?]] Let us not forget that carers are very often elderly people who themselves need support. [[Voice from the hall: Why aren't you helping them?]] We are helping them now, Member. We're helping them right now. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I showed what state we had in 2015, and I'm showing what we've been trying to do for them for four years. I can assure you that what we've done can be read in any textbook. It's hard to find a textbook about what you were doing. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Within the framework of purely human solidarity, we want - and I hope that the entire High House wants - to help those unable to exist on their own. Without a doubt, we would all like to help everyone with disabilities. Reality is ruthless... [[What?]] [[Voice from the hall: 8 years of yours!]] 3 billion PLN and 500,000 PLN those who lie, unable to exist alone and for years forgotten, are waiting for our help. That is precisely the truth, Member. [[Public television and Rydzyk, that's what you can afford, not people with disabilities...]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years!]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, You think the guardians who listen to us want to hear this, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] What are you saying? [[Yes.]] Yes? Or would they rather listen to what I'm saying? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u174	Mrs Mucha, don't shout. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bożena Borys-Raccoon: These are people who can't work, these are people who are looking for confirmation of their own value and usefulness, and we want to help them do that. We want to provide those unable to live on their own with additional means to meet their life's needs, as they face daily expenses related to care, rehabilitation, medical care. The additional provision of PLN 500 may at least allow them a little to realize these expenses. Finally, I would like you to know that parents and carers of adults with disabilities are counting on us. I hope they don't disappoint. Thank you very much. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 335 Members voted. For - 197, against - 133, holding down 5. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Voice from the room: It didn't work.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo. Bravo.]] [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] In the third amendment to the article. 2 (2) 3 applicants... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Voice from the room: Go to sleep.]] [[Voice from the room: Applause.]] I'm asking you to calm down, because not all of us... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] In the third amendment to the article. 2 (2) The applicant shall propose to delete point 7. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[In what mode?]] [[In what mode?]] [[Waldek, print it out.]] The question is asked by the Member... Wait a minute, wait a minute. The question is asked by Mr Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are very pleased that this amendment has passed. This is a very important amendment for the disabled. [[Game in the hall, bell, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] They've been waiting for this. Moreover, it is impossible not to relate to the lies that the Minister has applied here. This care provision in 2007 for your government amounted to PLN 420. We raised them to PLN 1447 in 2014. [[Applause]] [[And that's the truth.]] We have left 657 million to carry out the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which you are graciously unable to implement at all, and it is not known why. [[Applause]] We've raised the income criteria for social services, and so on...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u176	Madam, please ask a question about the 3rd amendment. [[Stop it. Stop it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u177	We have increased funding for rehabilitation tournaments, rehabilitation equipment, the elimination of architectural barriers, and the state is the only thing you can...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u178	Madam, I would like to point out to you that you are not speaking on the subject. Ask a question about the third amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u179	...to make this bill, it's not to support it, it's to rule it out. You even exclude those who have pensions because of an accident at work. [[Applause]] [[Sit down.]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u180	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 183, against - 238, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. I declare a three-minute break and call the Senior Convention to the dark living room. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 46 hours 12 min 52]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 29 of the agenda. I inform the High House that I have asked members of the Senior Convention, representatives of clubs with an appeal and a call to draw the attention of Members to ask questions about a specific amendment if they are to speak. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But the Minister is also...]] [[It's the minister, too.]] Rules of procedure, ladies and gentlemen, says the marshal may allow questions to be asked. He doesn't have to. It's not a duty. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the hall: But the Minister too.]] So I'm asking the High House not to break, not to violate the rules. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 20. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 11. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Piechot. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Yesterday and today we heard about how well the state budget is. So why are you reaching into the labour fund? Why do you want to take 4 billion zlotys out of the Labour Fund? Yesterday it clearly sounded on the committee that taking 4 billion PLN from the Labour Fund was not agreed with employers or trade unions. There was no discussion at all on the Labour Market Council. The union found out about it by the way. This amendment is proposed to remove the intention to prohibit money from the Labour Fund. This money is needed for other purposes, for other tasks. The Minister has just talked about many achievements, so why have you been failing to comply with the Constitutional Court's judgment for the past four years, which you requested yourself...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u182	Mr President, I am very sorry that you are going beyond the scope of the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u183	...a judgment concerning benefits for adult carers of disabled persons? Why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u184	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 390 Members voted. For - 168, against - 222, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 20. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 392 Members voted. For - 168, against - 224, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 21. Amendment 20 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Magdalena Kochan. [[Thank you, Marshal.]] Please. [[Applause]] [[Have you had enough?]] We're voting. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 12 and 20, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. For - 173, against - 226, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 13th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 21a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u185	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! The difference is that I run my mom and my brother's finances, I know exactly what needs are, and I buy everything myself. I want to tell you that from the community aid centre every month we receive PLN 184.42 as a welfare allowance. Do you know how much pampers cost to adults? I'm sure you don't know - 67 zlotys. Did you know that you and your ministry are now giving 67 zlotys a month? Mr. President! A 40-year-old man uses more than a pack of pampers a month. About 500 zlotys are paid for the supply of pampers for 3 months. Doesn't that make you think? Maybe these people could apply for an allowance of PLN 500? It's all a huge cost. Minister! Come on in. Come to my mom's. She's an open person. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She doesn't look at politics and she wants you to understand... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Tusk needs to be invited.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u186	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you that this is about the 13th Amendment, ladies and gentlemen. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 408, against - 5, holding down 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Bravo.]] In the 14th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 22a. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Cornelia Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's true that the PiS government has done a lot for people with disabilities. My question is, why did you do all this during the last year of your term of office?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u188	Mrs. Member! Ask a question about the 14th amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u189	Why didn't you do it for four years of your government? [[Don't interrupt the marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: But this is not about the amendment.]] Why did you humiliate people by telling them to protest in the Seym and in the streets of Warsaw? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u190	Madame, I would like to point out that you are not asking a question about the 14th amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u191	Why didn't you reform the caselaw, even though you depend on it for all other reforms concerning people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u192	Member of the Commission, in accordance with the Article. 175 calling you to order.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u193	Why, Minister? Answer that question. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a question of the 14th amendment. Once again, I draw your attention. [[Voice from the hall: You will not be a censor.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What was it about?]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For -413, against -3, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 24. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I do not agree with Mrs Wróblewska. PiS has been systematically humiliating, discriminated against and despised for a year... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u195	Madame, I am so sorry, you are not talking about the 15th amendment. [[Sit down.]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't insult the Sejm.]] Ma'am, it's an art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I call you to order. You're not talking about the 15th amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] Excuse me, ma'am. I have to take your floor. [[Voice from the hall: How much does the husband make?]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] [[A voice from the room: A few million hugs!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 170, against - 247, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[But why are you doing this, marshal?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you, at the Senior Convention, I paid attention to this. If I think this is a test... [[How do you know what you're gonna say in the second part?]] ...obstructing or conducting polemics in questioning mode, I won't allow questions to be asked. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Do you know from above?]] Member, take your place. [[Voice from the hall: Thank you for the Olympics.]] [[You're wasting our time.]] Mrs. Member! I am talking to Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis - please step off the platform and take your place. [[The Olympics!]] [[You just asked her out.]] Please take your seat in the Seym, which is yours. [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: But to correct...]] Ma'am, take the seat that belongs to you in the Seym. [[Voice from the hall: Give back the millions!]] [[Voice from the room: 800,000. zł on application.]] [[He's asking a question about the amendment.]] In the 16th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 27. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. [[Voice from the room: She asks a question.]] The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 17. The question is asked by Mr Jagna Jachalajtis-Walczak. There you go. [[The Olympics.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u196	Perhaps you could at least learn my name. [[Olympiad voice, Minister.]] Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We were just talking about the case law amendment. Since 2001, they have ruled on the degree of disability of the ZONs and not the ZUS, which means that you want to send all those people who do not have a ruling from the ZUS only from the ZONs again to the ruling committee. Do you realize what a logistical, emotional, health effort this is for them? Do you have any idea what kind of suffering you're putting these people through again? In fact, this bill of yours doesn't want to help, it's to rule out people who are disabled, unable to exist.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u197	I draw your attention...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u198	This is the bill that's gonna bring it down again...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u199	...that Amendment 16 refers to the deletion of Article. 27.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u200	This is the next time... [[Voices from the hall: That's what this is all about.]] A miraculous recovery may be the consequence of re-entry to the CSO committee. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Bravo, Member!]] [[Olympiad voice.]] [[You have a disabled child...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u201	Mr Paweł Grabowski has the floor. [[And we don't have parents like that? What have you done all these years?]] [[Mr President, sometimes it is better to remain silent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am sending a question on behalf of Mrs Agnieszka Progaj, who, for health reasons, cannot be present with us today. Minister! When there will be a reform of case law, because unfortunately today it is the case that some people who should not have a disability certificate receive such a statement and those who are actually disabled have a problem with obtaining this document, this certificate. [[Eight years of Platform.]] Minister! When can we expect a thorough reform of the caselaw that people who are actually disabled should be recognised in the light of the law, formally, as persons with disabilities, and thus be able to benefit from all the benefits provided for by the law that simply belong to persons with disabilities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But we need to sort things out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u203	Minister Bożena Borys-Raccoon requests the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u204	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to reassure, first of all, those who are moved by my predecessor, I think of the Member, who are afraid that they will have to go to the Social Security Office. Ladies and gentlemen, no. The president of the ZUS, the ZUS issued a statement that in those cases when we are talking about independent, incapable of independent existence... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, you have spoken, I have listened, so please hold your emotions back. I want to explain that the juror doctor will be at home with those people who are unable to come... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But the stress will be.]] [[Voice from the room: But why?]] I agree, ma'am, that the judicial system requires reform, and there's probably no one in this room who thinks otherwise. Undoubtedly that's job number one... [[Four years, four years.]] ...in the next term before the next government. We will probably all lean on it, and each one of us has a genuine, good and substantive assessment of this range crazy, insanely sensitive, because none of us seem to have any doubts about it. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we all have older parents, sick children, and I think this kind of empathy... We don't have to point each other out. Each of us struggles with our problems and with our disabled in the circle of our closest friends, family. There is no doubt that we all have the same sensitivity threshold. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u205	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 182, against - 242, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 27 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns the fact that you want to draw on the resources of the Labour Fund to pay and serve complementary benefits. Why do you want to do that? At the committee meeting, we pointed out that this was a mistake. We asked, and we didn't get a specific answer. Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u207	Thank you. We're voting. [[Answer.]] Who of you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Where is the answer?]] Don't yell. 426 Members voted. For - 184, against - 242, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 28 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Szczerba. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Over the last four years, this party has consistently rejected the amendment on the National Alzheimer's Plan. It is about 0.5 million Poles and Poles who suffer from dementia, including Alzheimer's disease. This law and this proposal exclude this group, firstly, because many of these people have a pension that they have earned, and this pension amounts to over PLN 1100 gross. Secondly, this law forces those who very often have no judgment to be examined by the juror's physician as to their inability to exist on their own. The effect will be that many people, even though they will theoretically have the right to this benefit, will simply not apply for this benefit. Why are you rejecting the amendment for four years? Why do you not see 0.5 million people in Poland who have Alzheimer's disease? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a very serious problem, Mr. President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u209	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 18th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 186, against - 241, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 28 The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Perhaps some of you do not want to remember what happened last year. There was a 40-day protest of people with disabilities here. They are humiliated people, they are people lying on mattresses, cut off from the world through various types of catars, shutting down elevators, not going for walks. They didn't fight for a profit criterion. You enter the income criterion - 1100 PLN gross. This situation really upsets, also because this House has repeatedly not established any income criterion for social programmes. That is what Mr Piechota said in the case of this one-off allowance for pensioners. 37 people from the list of the wealthiest Poles were awarded an allowance of PLN 888,25. Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're ruling out disabled people? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u211	I would remind you that this amendment concerns the entry into force of certain provisions of the proposed law. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 186, against - 244, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Mr Barbara Chrobak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Thank you very much for supporting the amendment of the Kukiz Club15. [[Applause]] Thus, the other half, some who could not benefit from this benefit, will be able to receive it. [[They made a mistake.]] I'm counting on this amendment to be kept in the Senate. Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u213	Member of Sławomir Jan Piechota.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u214	Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask the government whether a fair consultation will be carried out before the Senate vote on this law. It is crazy that in the explanatory memorandum of this law you admit that there was no consultation. This was very clear at the committee meeting. Both representatives of NGOs and representatives of trade unions, both representatives of the NSZZ.Solidarity and representatives of the National Trade Union Agreement said that they had not been consulted with this law. The lack of such consultations makes this dialogue more difficult. The Minister has repeatedly said: we listen. After all, this law is a blatant denial of this declaration. There was no consultation, there was no possibility of comparing arguments, and that's why these people feel so deeply hurt. We want to help and this is a good intention, only that even the best intention can unfortunately be used in the worst style. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u215	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u216	That is why this law is a kind of prosthetic, not a system solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Black and Mamba.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You listen well, but during the whole debate on this project it never once happened on the committee or here, during readings, the word "sorry." [[Voice from the hall: For what?]] For all the reprehensible words that came from PiS politicians against those who protested in the Sejm. Mrs. Bernadette Krynicka said they weren't people for her to talk to. Mr Zalek said that parents treat children as shields...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u219	Member, please refer to the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u220	I'm referring to it, I'm referring to it. [[Question. That's what you've been talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u221	Do not argue about the behaviour and attitudes of other Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u222	Mr. Marek Suski said that the mothers who protest want live money for the movies, which is why they shouldn't be entitled to it. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] [[Madam, the question about the whole thing.]] Mr. Richard Terlecki said... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u223	Madam, I am so sorry, ma'am, but this...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u224	This is a summary... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Stop it.]] [[Stop it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u225	Your speech is not a question about the bill. [[But only the entire bill...]] Please refer to the bill. [[Marshal turns on the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u226	All of it. I demand that all of you, like one husband, apologize to the protesters. [[Applause]] [[Tell the Platform to apologize for eight years of its reign.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u227	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3676, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 428 against - 2. The Sejm passed a supplementary witness law for those unable to live on their own. [[Applause]] The Minister still wanted to speak. Minister Boris-Raccoon is asking for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u228	The Member asked for the word'sorry'. Dear disabled people, parents, guardians, on behalf of parliamentarians, I apologize for having to listen to this embarrassing discussion. [[Applause]] Thank you very much to all parliamentarians for supporting this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u229	We would like to return to the discussion of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Committee on Government Billings: - on the amendment of the Act on value added tax and the Act on tax treatment, - amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3681-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u230	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finances from print no. 3681-A on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act Tax Order from Print No. 3255 and the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws from Print No. 3602. The Sejm at its 84th meeting, held on 18 July 2019, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law in print No 3681 to the Committee on Public Finances in order to consider the amendments tabled during the second reading. 13 amendments were tabled, of which 4 amendments were not approved by the committee, 8 were supported by the committee and 1 was the amendment in question. The Public Finance Commission, having considered the amendments at its meeting on 18 July 2019, asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law together with the amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u231	Thank you. We will vote first on the amendments that are presented in the additional report. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Act on VAT on goods and services. In the first amendment to Annex 10 to the amended act, applicants propose to add point 4 in item 17. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u232	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the designers, the Ministry, but also for all of you. Are you aware that there are such persons, probably among us, who cannot eat cow's milk because health reasons do not allow them to do so? For such persons plant drinks are produced, which are equivalent, substitute, substitute for milk of animal origin. These drinks can be consumed without any hindrance by people suffering from various allergies. This amendment concerns the addition to the so-called. the VAT matrix of the solution according to which vegetable drinks which are a substitute for cow's milk would also be subject to the same VAT rate as cow's milk. This would be in line with European Union legislation, but above all it would be a tribute to those who cannot eat cheaper cow's milk and must eat vegetable drinks which would be even more expensive as a result of the rejection of this amendment than they are today. Hence the great request to accept this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u233	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 185, against - 234, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to Annex 10 to the amended act, applicants propose to add items 17a and 17b. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 183, against - 237, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to Annex 10 to the amended act, applicants propose to add item 18a. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Genowef Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we propose to add 5% VAT on organic products, i.e. healthy food, to the list of goods. My question is simple: Why doesn't the government want to promote healthy food? After all, this has not only an economic but also a social goal. This would be an incentive for customers who eat such food and for those who produce it. Please support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u235	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You freeze the citizens' money on the VAT account and you won't even let them locate it. It's a clear bow towards the banks, Mr. President, and they're making huge profits from it. It is extremely unethical, it is an act to the detriment of citizens and Polish entrepreneurs. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] You were supposed to guard the interests of Polish entrepreneurs and citizens, and you are behind the bank lobby. This amendment, which I have prepared, makes it safe to pay the profits of these funds to the people who own them. We can't take them out of this money. In a safe and tight way, it is possible to manage this money, it is about the tax offices, not sealing as if the VAT system itself. Even the Ministry in its explanatory memorandum [[♪ The bell ♪]] notes that these solutions will reduce the activity of small... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u237	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 187, against - 238, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 62b and paragraph 2. 2 The Bank Law of the applicant proposes to add point 2a. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 183, against - 237, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 5, 6, 9. - 11 and 13. the applicant proposes a different wording of the transitional provisions and that the Act enter into force on 1 November 2019. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render amendment 12 irrelevant. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question as to whether you are aware that the rejection of this amendment will result in the entry into force of Law 1 September 2019, which is a little over a month from now. This may also cause some constitutional complications, because perhaps the President will not have 21 days to sign this bill. That's why I'm asking. I know that there is a preliminary consensus, but the request that you actually uphold this consensus and all vote in favour of extending the vacathio legis of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u239	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of these amendments, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 416, against -5, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 7, applicants propose to delete Article in the draft law. 9. In Amendment 8, applicants propose to delete Article in the draft law. 10. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 7 and 8, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For -423, against -3, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. The 12th amendment is without object. The whole bill... Mr Jarosław Sachajko. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u240	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! A few months ago, when I applied to reject the law at first reading, I paid attention to two scandalous proposals. The first - raising VAT for drinks and the second - feeding children and young people with junk food. It's been a few months, and the Ministry of Finance has put it on its own. Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of the Family spends a lot of money on promoting healthy nutrition. The Ministry of Health spends giant money on the treatment of obesity-related diseases, and the Ministry of Finance what? He doesn't do anything to himself because it's easier for him to count. Hence my question: Why is the Ministry of Finance acting contrary to common sense to the Polish budget and to the detriment of Polish children? I hope you'll see to the Senate's change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u241	Please. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3681, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For -420, against -5, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. I inform you that we are being listened to by young people from Radomska. Welcome. [[Applause]] We would like to refer to item 31 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and some other laws. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill. In view of the proposal to refer the draft law back to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, an objection was raised in order to submit an additional report. I will put to the vote the proposal to refer the draft law back to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has decided to join the third reading of the bill after the text of the amendments tabled has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This proposal, the opposition to the referral of amendments to the committee, shows the substance of the procedure over this law, and in general the philosophy of parliamentary procedure in the State of PiS. This bill has been... The project submitted to the programme on Tuesday night, on Wednesday was at the committee meeting, and today we are voting on it. What are you trying to hide? You're rejecting requests for a public hearing. This is a law that affects not only the environment, but every citizen, our civil rights, [[Applause]] For our health and for our lives. You want to sell it under the table under the green dress. How much and who? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u243	We're voting. Who among you is in favour of referring the bill back to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 184, against - 237, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore decided to join the third reading of the bill after serving the text of the amendments tabled to the Members. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes that the draft law be adopted in the form of a print submission No 3661. A summary of the amendments tabled was delivered to print No 3661. We will vote first on the amendments tabled during the second reading. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Environmental Information and Protection Act, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. In the first amendment to Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The question is asked by Ewa Lieder. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u244	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! This amendment is anti-natural and anti-social. This amendment corrects the wrong record. The main body responsible for carrying out the various stages of the environmental impact assessment with important investments and for issuing this decision will remain the municipality, i.e. the investor himself. This is an obvious contradiction with the article. 9 Directive 2011/92 of the European Union, which prohibits self-solving, and that is what is happening. [[Voice from the room: Not this amendment.]] These and other records will cause that the ordinary man will not be able to do anything, even though at a distance of 100 m from his house will arise e.g. A pigsty or a mink farm. And this isn't about those roads or bridges you were talking about. This is precisely the kind of harmful investment that should not take place in our homes. People are gonna protest and you're gonna back off. Really, today is a chance to vote for this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u245	Thank you, Member. Mr Anna Paluch has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u246	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants of this amendment, which we will be voting on at the moment. [[Voice from the room: There is no such mode.]] [[The question to the makers of the amendment, why aren't you responding?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 2001 SEA Directive requires that the strategic environmental impact assessment be subject to those projects which have a negative or significant negative impact. But I have a question for you. [[A question to the maker of the amendment? There's nothing like that in the rules.]] Why do you, when making this amendment, make everything limited to regional documents, i.e. regional development strategies? You exclude national strategy papers from these procedures, which means that you are incompatible with the directive. Have you considered making this amendment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u247	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 164, against - 256, abstained 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 64 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 1d. The question is asked by Ewa Lieder.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u248	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! This amendment is anti-natural and anti-social. I'm gonna emphasize that because that's what's happening. This is the incapacity of society only for the profit of a small group of entrepreneurs. Who's gonna make money out of this? You have to ask the applicants. I'd call it a developer+, because this is where he goes. about the ski tours, about the excavation of the Vistula mine, about the Westerplatte Museum, about moving society away from co-decision. And the crazy thing is that comments to this law have not even been published, even though they should be published at the right time, it is about restricting the right of the social side. This is really a cardinal mistake. You'll be pulling out of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u249	Mr Anna Paluch - question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask the applicants again... [[There's no such thing, Mr. Marshal.]] [[That's not the mode.]] ...have they considered the issue of the amendment that we will be voting on in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish people are waiting for the bill that we are currently working on. First of all, local communities are waiting for her. The Law and Justice Government allocated an unprecedented amount of PLN 6 billion to the reconstruction of local roads. The uncles are waiting, the mayors are waiting, the old men are waiting. They want to prepare documents, and they can't, because procedural issues make it harder for them. The legislation we are currently talking about will change the competence of the authorities a little bit, but it will be in line with the situation before 1 January 2017 as well as with the subsidiarity principle. [[4 years.]] This municipality will conduct the proceedings, but the final decision depends on the head of the Regional Environmental Directorate. [[Is that a question about the amendment? Mr. Marshal...]] Because the agreement that the head of WIAŚ will issue will be in effect. Why are you doing this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal, where are the rules? Is that a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u251	Thank you. I'd just like to ask you... Ladies and gentlemen, the questions must be addressed to the representatives of the government, to the applicants, but to the draft law, and to the rapporteur. [[But you didn't stop, you didn't answer.]] Would Minister Kowalczyk like to speak? Yes. Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think, however, it is worth reading this law, and also reading the amendments that are being tabled. There is really no way in our project to mitigate any requirements. There are no developers, ski trails, etc. I can really put a lot of money here. Please, show me how easy it is for ski runs we are introducing in this bill. I want you to come to your senses and discuss what's in the bill. That's first of all. Secondly, the adoption of this amendment would result in a non-compliance with European Union law. If you don't know what you're talking about, it's really hard to argue here. [[Applause]] [[Mr Iwona Sledzińska-Catarasinska: Mr Marshal, what is this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u253	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 155, against - 253, with a hold of 8. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 74 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 3a. The question is asked by Agnieszka Pomaska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is an amendment that restores citizens to the right to decide on the environment in which they live. I have a question for the Minister and the rapporteur as to whether they remember when President Kaczyński blocked Mr Szyszka's law on tree clipping. Now it will be exactly the same situation if you do not accept this amendment. Mr. President Kaczyński, do you know that this bill is a right to build...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u255	Member, please ask a question to...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u256	Okay, then that's a question for the Minister. This amendment introduces the law according to which, within 100 m of the property, it will be possible to stand from the house, for example. A mink farm where animals are killed. [[That's not true, that's not true.]] Does President Kaczyński know that this bill, introduced without consulting the citizens, will give the right to place landfills within 100 m of the house? Do you realize that? Thank you. [[You're so full of shit.]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u257	Mr Anna Paluch has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm getting better. I have a question for the Minister. Minister! Is it true that mouth? 3a, which is so fiercely fought by the Members of the opposition, does not restrict the rights of the parties at all, on the contrary? [[Voice from the room: 4 years.]] Sometimes such a decisive issue is the situation on the ground, for each investment. If it is so that the planned investment is expensive and too expensive, so to speak, I do not know, 20, 30 m, then people would no longer be parties, and when such a provision is adopted, the reasons for establishing parties, to a greater extent, the interests of citizens can be taken into account. Is it true that these criteria, first of all, the distance criterion 100 m, the criterion of exceeding environmental quality standards and the criterion of not restricting the use of the parcel according to its intended purpose, are present there? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Abstracting from the fact that the applicant...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u260	...they misjudged the justification because the justification is completely different...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u261	Thank you, Member. The government at this point represents Małgorzata Golińska, Deputy Minister of Environment, the main conservationist of nature. [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u262	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Minister! [[And High Izbo?]] I think that this amendment and this discussion definitely need to be organised and clarified. At the committee meeting, it seemed to me that there was some confusion about the subject, but since yesterday, during the second reading, I quoted directly what was written in the draft law, and the state continues to uphold the false allegation that there would be limited access for the community when it comes to participating in proceedings, I would like to denounce it once again. Ladies and gentlemen! Specifically, there are three reasons in the project: one is a distance criterion, one is a qualitative and the last criterion, which, I will remind you, introduced by the Government of Law and Justice in 2017, is a criterion that speaks of the deterioration of the situation currently living in the property. We keep it up, we don't back out of it. This proposal only regulates the question that those who have been wrongly excluded from this procedure will be able to participate in the proceedings, and those who will not be affected by this investment will not have to participate in the proceedings. Example. We have an investment, a bridge or road repair, the road stretches as a plot of several kilometers. So far, everyone living on this road may have been a party to the case, which was completely unnecessary if they were not affected by the investment. However, in the case of investment, which was created 50 m from our house, but e.g. We were separated from this investment by the road, we could no longer be a party, even though this investment directly concerned us. The distance criterion puts this situation in order. The amendment you are proposing undermines the right of the party against your intention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u263	Thank you very much. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 160, against - 245, with a hold of 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 86d. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz July.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My colleagues are a little more expressive, so I will try to explain to the Minister so calmly what this amendment is all about. As usual, the possibility is excluded and the powers of entities other than the investor are limited, i.e. the society that is affected by this bill. We're still trying to correct this bad bill. We cannot agree to dismantle public participation in making environmental decisions. We're undermining the Aarhus Convention. This is a convention that says that the aim is to grant the public concerned access to justice in the field of environmental protection. I hope that the Minister realises that it will be necessary to discuss this with the other signatories of this Convention in a moment. You know perfectly well that there is an infringement of the EIA Directive regarding access to justice. It's all a sign of this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think you should consider whether or not you should accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u265	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 158, against - 249, with a hold of 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicants propose by deleting the amendment to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 108. Question. Mr Grzegorz July.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, first of all, we are really working on a project that has the title of public participation in environmental protection. This title is confusing. In the current law, it is about reducing public participation in environmental protection and reducing information on environmental protection. This bill is a bad bill. This amendment talks about procedures with long-lasting environmental decisions, how to speed up working modes. Citizens' control over the whole system is being hindered. I understand the significant facilitations in issuing environmental decisions for investments that the current majority consider to be flagship, type of Vistula mine excavation or the construction of the Central Communication Port. I would still understand that, although I do not approve of it, because I consider it to be cost-intensive investments which will not produce the expected results. But you're adding housing investments here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] closer to unknown associated investments. What is the real purpose of this type of action?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u267	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 156, against - 248, with a hold of 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u268	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! This is actually a law excluding Poles from consultations, limiting their impact on what investments - which could endanger the environment, their lives and health - can be carried out. It's also a bill, Mr. and Mrs. and Mrs. Anderson. On the one hand, many investors will become richer and on the other hand they will deprive billions of Poles of their money. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not get a penny from the future budget of the Union. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] 25% the future budget, even though for Poland it is cut... [[Voice from the room: 140 million.]] ...that is EUR 64 billion will be allocated to the environment. We're not gonna see a dime out of this. This is where the Rospuda case comes in. It was then that, saving the money of Poles, we adopted a bill that you are now disassembling. PiS is trying to get us into caves where we're going to fight for power with maces. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voice from the hall: That's where you belong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u269	The Minister of Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it is worth saying what the intentions of this law were, and it is worth listening to. Firstly, one intention was to realise the impact of the neighbourhood on projects that could have a significant impact on the environment. The Minister mentioned it. If the neighborhood to a given plot has so far been decisive, then you can imagine a situation where by the road that is 6 m wide, someone could do anything he likes, and a person who lives 6 m away - beyond the road - would have no effect on what such a neighbor might be doing. There have already been cases where in the middle of large parcels other smaller parcels were released in order to remove the impact of all neighbours and reduce their impact on environmental decision-making. The introduction of a zone of 100 m and taking into account the conditions that are significantly affecting the environment, as laid down in the Directive, allow for the real, real impact of the neighbours on the projects being carried out. That's one thing. The second point - indeed we are restoring the principle that all environmental issues relating to local roads of more than 1 km length were addressed to regional environmental departments. What did it turn out to be? When you passed the bill, you didn't give regional environmental management a single job. This resulted in queues being created - in the Directorates it is expected to consider about 3,000. proposals for minor cases. The issues related to the 1.5 km local road, which neither changes its width nor changes its scope, are currently a year, 2 years. Self-governments are waiting for this bill to be saved. This law received a positive opinion from the Joint Government and Government Committee. I understand that the change that gives local governments these administrative powers may not appeal to everyone. Besides, they'll be under the control of the WEDŚ, under control of the arrangement, so at this point we're not missing anything here. I know you're upset by the Self-Government Road Fund. We want to make this work. He's bothering you, and you'd like to block it administratively so that the local authorities can't use the funds from the Self-Government Road Fund to build roads. If that's your intention, let's talk about it right now. Self-governments - you get money from Law and Justice, but we'll give you conditions that you won't use that money. Let's just say that's your intention. We want to enable local governments to use the Self-Government Road Fund. These are the two most important issues. We do not limit the impact of society on decision-making or the level of environmental impact of society. I know, however, that some people would want every opposition to block all investments for years. Then we wouldn't have made any investments. The impact of society is real, but it cannot be an absolute influence blocking investment. That's the idea of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u271	Thank you, Minister. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 3661, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 262, against - 152, holding down 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 32 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence on the draft law amending the Law on Education. The additional report shall be in print No 3671-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence in print No 3671-A concerning the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Education, print No 3548. High Izbo! The project of changes in the Education Law is long awaited by educational, local government and military units, which since 2000 have been involved in the creation of so-called. military uniform classes based on pedagogical experiment or pedagogical innovation. For 3 years in the Ministry of National Defence, pilots of certified classes have been in cooperation with schools. These are military classes, which are of great interest to young people, classes in which patriotic attitudes of young people form, a sense of service to their homeland, preparation for possible career choices in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. This is a very good and expected bill. Thanks to this law in the Educational Law, we will introduce legal bases and rules for organising these classes throughout the country. As part of the work on this law on 18 July, the Sejm again referred the draft law to the committee. The Commission examined the amendments tabled at second reading on 19 July. Ten amendments were made. In general, they concern the extension of this regulation to other uniformed, police or firefighter classes. The joint committees propose that these amendments be rejected because the ministries involved in the creation of these classes must have time to prepare an opinion on this issue. I therefore ask the High House to reject the amendments tabled at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u273	Thank you. We are voting first on the amendments tabled at second reading, as set out in the committee's report. In the first amendment to Article. 2 point 2 of the Educational Law of the applicant proposes a different wording of point (a) of the Law. b. Amendments 2 to 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Magdalena Ewa Marek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that out of about 50,000. Unicycle students only learn part in military classes. The police, firefighters and Border Guard classes should not be forgotten. That is why the Civic Platform - Coalition Club has prepared amendments to include all uniformed class students with this amendment, especially since this morning at the committee meeting and yesterday from this speaker we learned that the Home Affairs Minister is not interested in police and firefighter class students. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u275	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 10, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 182, against - 227, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The whole thing. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no 3671, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For -411, against -2, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Education Law Act and on financing educational tasks. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 33 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government bill amending the Fire Protection Act. The additional report shall be in print No 3642-A. Third reading. I would like to ask Edward Siarka to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During the second reading, one amendment was tabled to the draft Fire Protection Act. The Commission has examined this amendment and recommends that it be rejected and we recommend that the whole draft law be adopted. At this point, I just want to add one sentence. This bill is expected by the entire community of voluntary firefighters and allows the launch of 82 million PLN for voluntary firefighters this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u277	Please. In the amendment, applicants propose, inter alia, in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 33 Fire Protection Act new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission is asking, as we have heard, for rejection. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The government shouldn't fool volunteer firefighters, I mean, it shouldn't fool volunteer firefighters at all, it shouldn't cheat at all. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] [[Not just the government.]] And cheating volunteer firefighters is a special category. I therefore ask you to clarify exactly what funds have been secured in the impact assessment for the implementation of this law in 2020, 2021, 2022. To make it easier for the Minister, I will ask globally for these three years. And is it true that this is the amount that is on this card, which is 0 zloty? Second question. Where exactly will the resources for implementing the rules come from this year? Because this is where the Minister avoided the fire of answers at the committee meeting. And is it true that it will actually be appropriations shifted from other tasks already planned in the budget, which may also concern fire protection, i.e. de facto it will not be [[♪ The bell ♪]] No 80 million, just the funds that have already been promised...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u279	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u280	...and now the second time promised in the bill... [[Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u282	Dear Marshal, High Seym! According to the Act, all voluntary fire department units may submit applications for the implementation of the tasks listed in the Act. That's very good. Today, the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Service confirmed that each unit would have to sign a contract for this task. But I asked the second question: Where will this agreement be signed, at the county or voivodeship headquarters? Amazing answer: I don't know. I don't know. I therefore make an amendment. Following the adoption of this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, on this question, you would hear the answer that the agreement will be signed in the commune, where voluntary fire department units operate. Which of these solutions is better? [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Ajaj.]] And question two. Each application will be evaluated by the district commander. So if the unit wants to organize a fire orchestra contest, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This opinion will be delivered by the district commander of the State Fire Department. Is this serious? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u283	Thank you very much. The Minister of the Interior, Elizabeth Witek, asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, I've been explaining, explaining, answering every question and asking you. To the question of the Member from my district about whose face this law will have, I replied that she should have the face of the Polish Parliament, because it is a good law, expected and we should all adopt it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, I explained this yesterday. This law introduces the possibility of additional funding for voluntary firefighters from the state budget. [[Member Mirosław Suchoń shows the postcard with the inscription: 0 zł]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Forgive me, sir, but if a government that has its own responsibility for fire safety, it is not able to carry out all its duties, for example. This is a poor community, we want to help. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But I think it is natural, Madame, that the person who gives this money is accounted for. If it is given by a municipality, it is cleared by the municipality, if it is given by the state budget, by the State. You asked who would sign the contracts. Well, it's actually written in the bill that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration has the resources. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Right now, it just so happens that it's me, [[Applause]] But the obvious thing is - and I thought you understood that yesterday - who knows best whose voluntary fire department what is most needed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Jarosław.]] [[Voice from the room: PSL.]] I don't think you're going to go against what you're saying. [[Commendant of the municipal volunteer firefighter.]] Of course, I just think it's the district commander, the city commander and the provincial commander. And that's how we wrote it down in the bill, that this is the opinion of the district or communal commandant, goes through the voivodeship command, goes to the minister of home affairs and administration. Please, really, I think we all have volunteer firefighters coming to see us. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm gonna answer one more question. You didn't ask him, you weren't in this debate yesterday, and I explained it. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to take seriously what you are saying, that at the end of our term we are creating a speciality for volunteers for some political purpose, I would answer you why, for four years, we are financing voluntary firefighters. This is over PLN 0.5 billion, which go not only from the modernisation programme, [[Applause]] but also from a national, regional environmental fund. And let me remind you that this year, for the first time, this happened, Mr, and I must say this, also in Mazowsze, but not only that some of the regional seymikas at the last moment, although there were promenes, refused to co-finance fire cars. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] They refused. And that shouldn't have happened. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: PSL.]] [[But you did.]] On the other hand, I would like to reassure all these voluntary firefighters who have received a message that the Polish State, the Polish Government, who has recognised security as one of the basic pillars of its functioning, will find this money and all the voluntary guards, including from the state, [[Applause]] Because we don't ask who they support, what the world views... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, please don't talk to me like that because you insult me. I have dozens of volunteer firefighters coming to see me. Go to Lower Silesia and ask me if I ever asked you a question about whether you supported me or not. No, we're helping volunteer firefighters because they're the first ones on the scene. [[Applause]] [[And there's a bill about...]] I think most of my colleagues, including the opposition, understand perfectly what I'm saying, and admit that they're right. I understand the opposition must criticize, but in this case, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's a reason. [[Voice from the room: Lies.]] By the way, I would like to say something else - I have said this before, but I will say this from this place, in this Chamber, I have talked about it in Katowice - that besides this law we are preparing a large bill that will take even more care of voluntary firefighters, because they must find their proper, worthy place in the internal security system of the state. We will invite to this cooperation various environments, but above all the volunteers of firefighters, and we hope that we will come up with a very good bill that will protect volunteer firefighters from these threats to themselves that we talked about in this room for a long time yesterday. Finally, please, let us adopt this law together, because it is really good and expected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u285	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. Za-210, against- 208, holding off on four. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The whole... [[Voice from the room: Acknowledged.]] [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Sorry, the Sejm accepted, sir. [[Long-term applause]] [[It's not coming. It's a weak end.]] Before the vote on the whole question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[You're gonna lose.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing it's not the minister, not the PSP firefighters, but the local governments have more, they'll have more to say. Because these 82 million PLN are intended to be used for this hard work of CSR firefighters, who often complement and replace the state guard. They deserve it, but it's the money from the state budget, it's the money of all Poles, [[Applause]] also those firefighters, including you and everyone else. And that's why the procedure... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Reject the bill!]] Mr. Marshal, can you ask them to quiet down? That is why this money has to be transferred, it has to be made transparently. Minister, experience... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Reject the entire bill.]] It's too loud. I can't hear myself. Mr. Marshal, it's so loud that... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Minister! The experience of the last four years teaches. We're watching the media. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Socialist and fanpages of PiS Members...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u287	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u288	Let me... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[But you can't speak at all.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: How do you behave?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u289	Thank you, Member. Madam President, allow the next Member to speak. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u290	Dear Marshal, High Seym! With all my heart in the name of all the firefighters, thank you all. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[It ends well.]] Dear Minister, I want to direct really... Thank you for everything. Minister! It is important to understand that it is indeed the district commander who knows best about operational and hardware matters, but I assure you that the municipality's management of the municipal branch is best known for its culture matters concerning CSR and not for its chairman. Believe me. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Oh yes!]] Yes, sir. Second thing. Dear country, the tasks listed in the Act have been carried out, carried out and will carry out the boards of municipal, district and voivodship branches. However, they still cannot benefit from this money under the Act. Question: "When will you finally fix the bill you broke in 2017?" [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u291	Thank you. We vote on the whole thing. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't get emotional. This is a normal vote. [[Of course.]] [[These are important things.]] Who of your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3619, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 422, no one voted against, three Members abstained. The Sejm passed a bill amending the Fire Protection Act. We return to the consideration of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3618. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've just decided that 82 million zlotys are going to the CSR. Great. And now we are talking about raises for the lowest earning health care workers in the amount of PLN 97 million. And how much do you think this amount comes from the state budget? Not a penny. Where's the money coming from? From the resources that are spent on hospitals to treat people. You give raises at the expense of treating people. It's obscene, isn't it? [[Applause]] And where the hospital doesn't have a signed contract, raise the price of medical services and get the money out of the patient's pocket. We are in favour of this bill because we want these health workers to earn as much as possible, but the amount of PLN 6 or 160 does not shock. But the worst part is, it's all one big lie. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Bravo, Ela.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u293	Thank you, Member. You didn't have time to ask a question. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u294	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Once again, I would like to explain to you that we do not transfer funds from the state budget to finance health services. These are funds from the National Health Fund. [[And this isn't the state budget?]] This year there has been a four-fold revision of the National Health Fund's financial plan, so that measures have been introduced in the budget that fully cover these increases. [[That's not true, that's not true.]] The first change took place on 1 April, The hospital benefits were allocated over PLN 680 million, including an increase in the value of the benefits, and I will remind you that the price of the benefit is the labour cost. From 1 July this year, further increases in hospital care, a lump sum increase in hospital emergency services and rehabilitation and sanatorium treatment are taking place. It is about the amount of over 900 million PLN. So that these funds will be sufficient for the implementation of these increases. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u295	No. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3618, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. In favour - 417, no one voted against, there were two abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities. We are returning to the examination of item 35 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of eHealth solutions. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of Law No 3650. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft law from this printing, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For -411, against -1, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of eHealth solutions. We are returning to the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Insolvency Law and some other laws. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft law, print No 3614. Question. Mr Daniel Milewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u296	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! More than 70,000 are announced in France. consumer bankruptcy per year. In Germany it is 85 thousand, in Poland - only 6.5 thousand, which in addition represents only half of all applications submitted. Meanwhile, many Poles are struggling with the spiral of debt. Minister! Why Poles have so far been blocked the possibility of extending themselves often in situations where they have fallen into a spiral of debt not because of their own fault. How will the proposed changes improve and speed up the possibility for Poles and Poles to extend? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u297	Minister Warchoł wants to answer. Marcin Warchoł, Deputy Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u298	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Anyone who can't afford to pay his debt today falls into the hands of a bailiff, often flees into a grey zone, flees with debts abroad, and the bailiff rips off his proverbial shirt, while the creditors still don't get that money. People who are spiraling into debt, not because of their own fault, often because of illness, have outbid their financial opportunities, often because of random events, have no chance of a second chance today. Therefore, consumer bankruptcy is a chance for a new life. Consumer failure is a very important project that is addressed to all those who are in insolvency. And this is the first major change, Mr President. Namely, we want the state of insolvency to be a sufficient basis for opening insolvency proceedings without investigating the reasons for the insolvency. As far as the causes are concerned, they can be various, it is a very complex matter. It is often necessary to listen to creditors. This is why these causes will be examined at a later stage. Those who, due to various random events, have not fallen into debt because of their own fault, will have a repayment period of up to 3 years. Those who, perhaps recklessly, perhaps careless, have incurred several, several debts or, for example,. outbid their financial capacity, they will have a repayment period extended to 7 years. This is the first major change. [[Voice from the room: Okay, we know.]] So the insolvency itself will be the basis for opening insolvency proceedings, which will result in almost 30,000. Poles will be able to use this system. So that we are getting closer, Mr, to France, to Britain. [[This is the third reading. Third reading.]] The second very important change. We want to offer positive solutions for young people. If someone after college wanted to take one, the other loan to develop a business, his leg fell, he had a conditional suspension for a period of 5 years so that when he found a job, when he found a better place to earn, he would be able to pay off these debts. Today, however, he is fleeing into the grey zone, traveling abroad, and the creditors will not receive this money anyway. The good news is also for active debtors. If someone has a property, a house, an apartment, they will sell such property, from which they will be able to pay 70% debt? The repayment period is reduced to one year. If someone pays 50% debt as a result of voluntary repayment of the house or apartment, the repayment period will be up to 2 years. Another good news: a deal without bankruptcy. Unfortunately, today, in order to be prolonged, we must declare bankruptcy. This is the first problem for those who are in a situation of this type of debt. Meanwhile, e.g. In the UK, more than half of all bankruptcy cases are bankruptcy agreements. Therefore, as far as such a solution is concerned, restructuring advisers and services, which are addressed to this type of situation as part of free legal assistance. On the one hand, the restructuring advisor, on the other hand, our legal assistance from the Ministry of Justice is intended to serve those who want to deal with creditors without opening insolvency proceedings. [[Applause]] Good news, too, ladies and gentlemen, for the seniors. For seniors we raise the amount free from execution from 500 PLN to 1000 PLN. Seniors also deserve consumer bankruptcy. We also want to address this type of offer and our system of free legal assistance we also want to extend this type of service to the elderly. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer failure is a chance for a new life. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That is why I am asking you to support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u299	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3614, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 416, against 1, he's holding off on one. The Sejm passed a law amending the Insolvency Law Act. We would like to return to the discussion of item 37 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Benefit and Volunteering. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of the Act, print No 3640. The question is asked by Mr Cornelia Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u300	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You are creating a Council of Dialogue with a young generation without dialogue with young people. Of the 34 amendments tabled by the youth associations, the government rejected as many as 25 of them. The consultation lasted only two weeks. Why? We still do not know on the basis of which criteria candidates will be classified on the board. What and who do they deserve? You are talking about how important it is to involve young people in public life and give them the opportunity to co-decide on state matters. So why do you not allow them to decide for themselves who will represent them on the council? Why are you taking that away from them? Why should the Minister make such a decision? This threatens to stubbornly not only the elections themselves, but above all the advice, as is the case with the stubborn Council of Children and Youth of the Republic of Poland at the MEN. Why is there no guarantee in the bill that the young generation will be represented by young people? I'm asking for an answer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause during the whole procession...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u301	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u302	...there were no answers to these questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u303	Thank you. We're voting. [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] [[Where's the answer?]] Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 3640, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 410, against - 3, three Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. We return to the examination of item 38 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the draft law amending the consular law. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3685. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.3685, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 398, against - 2, the 9. The Sejm passed a law amending the consular law. We refer to item 39 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in the field of preventing and combating serious crime, signed in Washington on 12 June 2019. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3657. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 3657, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For -414, against -1, holding down 3. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in the field of preventing and combating serious crime, signed in Washington on 12 June 2019. We would like to refer to items 42 and 43 of the agenda: 42. First reading of the government draft Public Procurement Law. 43. First reading of the government draft law Rules introducing the Public Procurement Law. In the discussion, a request was made to refer both draft laws to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is to refer these draft laws to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent draft laws to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of sending government billing: Public Procurement Law and Public Procurement Law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 171, against - 249, stopped 2. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent the draft laws to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation. Ladies and gentlemen, I set a deadline for the Commission to submit its report by 29 August 2019. We are returning to the examination of item 60 of the agenda: Report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3653. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 3653, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 410, against -7, holding down 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act. We are returning to the review of item 61 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. The additional report shall bear No 3690-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Dariusz Kubiak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, I have the honour to present to you an additional report on today's committee meeting at which we have examined the amendment. This is an amendment that only changes the reference... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...so I would very much ask you to accept this amendment. [[Thank you.]] On behalf of the committee, I ask you to adopt this very important bill for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u305	Let me remind you, print number 3690. We will vote on the amendment first. The amendment concerns Article. 28 point 1. Applicants shall propose to amend their references. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For -413, 1 against, the 4. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Vote on the whole bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3690, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 417, no one voted against, no one abstained 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 45 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws (Prints No. 3630 and 3659). I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u306	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws, prints No 3630 and 3659. The Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications after considering this resolution at its meeting on 18 July 2019 requests the High Sejm to approve the amendments of the Senate contained in points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 to accept, in points 9, 10, to reject and in paragraphs 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23 to accept. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u307	I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate's amendments, we are voting on proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. Amendments 1 to 16. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Commercial Companies Code Act. In the first amendment, among others. to the following Article: 300 in point 2 of the Senate proposes to add the word "Company." We will consider this amendment, including amendments from 2 to 4, from 6 to 8, from 13. to 15, 17, 18 and 20 to 23. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the amendments I have mentioned, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. In - 11, against - 403, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the inserted article. 300 The Senate proposes to delete § 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 5th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. For - 13, against - 391. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the inserted article. 300 The Senate proposes a different wording § 3. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is against the 9th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 356, against -58. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the inserted article. 300 § 5 The Senate proposes that the words "Every director" be replaced by "Director." The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is against the 10th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For -374, against -44. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the inserted article. 300 § 2 The Senate proposes to delete the terms and powers conferred by the shareholders. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 11th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For -5 against -418. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the inserted article. 300 § 3 The Senate proposes to delete the words "Article." 170. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 12th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. In - 1, against - 410. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 580 The Senate proposes that the existing content be marked as § 1 and added § 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. In -2, against - 417. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th Amendment, the Senate proposes to delete the article. 4. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 19th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 46 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Monitoring System for Road and Rail Transport of Goods and certain other laws (Prints No 3634 and 3675). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Public Finance Committee has examined this draft law and recommends that the High House adopt it in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u309	Thank you. We shall vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording in § 2 in Article. 56b of the Tax Code Act. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. One-for-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a. One stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 37av paragraph. 16 and paragraph 16. 16a The pharmaceutical law of the Senate proposes a change of an editorial and legislative nature. We will consider this amendment together with amendments 4 and 6. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 2, 4 and 6, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. In - 1, against - 420. One stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. The 16th Law amending the Senate proposes among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1a. We will consider this amendment together with Amendment 5. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 3 and 5, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. No one voted in favour, against - 421, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. The formal proposal is submitted by Michał Jan Mazowiecki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u310	High Seym! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! I made a formal request because I wanted to apologize. Sometimes you have to go back, sometimes you have to think... [[Voice from the room: That's what we think.]] ...two times before something bad happens. Politely, please. Sometimes it happens in this room that we insult each other...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u311	Mr President, please make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u312	...but it's time to stop. I can apologize. I can tell you that I was upset at the Infrastructure Committee meeting and offended a few people. From this point on, I offended the Deputy Minister of Culture and I can say I'm sorry. I would like to ask the High Sejm to remove this item from the agenda. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Great.]] [[Superproposal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u313	Ladies and gentlemen, I can't take this as a motion, it's about taking the item off the agenda. [[What can't you do?]] [[You can do anything.]] [[But the president can.]] I'm sorry, but there's no formal application. [[What do you mean?]] So that I can't take your statement as a formal motion. [[You can refer it back to the committee.]] [[What does the president say?]] [[Voice from the room: This is an argument.]] We proceed with the examination of item 47 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Investment Act for the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939 - Branch of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk (prints no. 3629 and 3645). I ask Mr Jan Kilian to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u314	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Infrastructure, print No 3645, on the Senate's resolution on the Investment Act for the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War. - Branch of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk, print No 3629. The Senate has introduced 13 amendments that have been addressed to the Committee on Infrastructure. The Commission, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 17 July this year. requested that all amendments be accepted. Amendment 1 should be voted with Amendment 5 and Amendment 2 should be voted with Amendments 3 and 9. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u315	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment One... [[With a formal application.]] The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Jerzy Polaczek. [[Is it in writing with reasons?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the contested law on the construction of the Museum of the Second World War, its branch in Gdansk in Westerplatte, which was proceded in the Seym, there were a lot of voices, which by this type of act were unacceptable voices. I don't want to appeal to a lot of arguments... [[Voice from the O.R.: Not on the subject.]] ...there were voices... [[Voice from the O.R.: Not on the subject.]] ...presented even during the proceedings at the Committee on Infrastructure. [[Voice from the room: The formal conclusion was to be.]] Unbelievable, outrageous statements and accusations were in the plenary room. I do not wish to appeal to speak in the Seym during proceedings over this law, even Mr Mazowiecki. [[Voice from the room: What is the formal conclusion?]] I therefore request that we no longer speak of this argument, that your Marshal determine the vote on these amendments without discussion. [[Applause]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Without discussion.]] No questions, I'm sorry. [[Voice from the hall: Voice against, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u317	Thank you very much. There you go, vote no. [[Voice from the room: Why are we sitting here?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u318	Of course, I'm filing a counterclaim. You have a majority, you can vote everything out in this courtroom, and yet you want to close the mouth of the opposition. [[We don't want to.]] You can vote, it'll be a vote, too, that it's nighttime. But you won't shut our mouths. [[We're not even trying.]] The proposal is curial, and I'm making a counterclaim. [[Absolutely.]] There will be a time when democracy will be in this room, that there will be parliamentaryism in this room, that there will be a discussion on this. No one's gonna remember about PiS anymore, but there's gonna be shame. [[Applause]] [[And a minority will then decide.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[When's the audition in Vienna?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u319	This is a formal conclusion. I understand the vote without discussion. [[Voice from the room: They're scared.]] As part of the discussion - questions, although this is the authority of the Marshal of the Sejm. [[Voice in the courtroom: Was there a motion in writing, Marshal?]] [[Voice from the room: Where is it in writing?]] Ladies and gentlemen, in writing... It is the Marshal of the Sejm who decides. [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] According to the regulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And where is the reason in writing?]] [[Voice from the hall: Where is the Marshal of the Sejm?]] I will put this motion to the vote. Who of you is in favour of the request made by Mr Jerzy Polak, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 237, against - 176, with 4. [[Right to the end.]] I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the room: Every time.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I wanted to file a formal motion.]] Who among you is against Amendments 1 and 5, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working.]] [[Voices from the room: Now it's working.]] Who's holding back? [[I'd like to make a formal request.]] Please don't disturb me. [[I'd like to make a formal request.]] 415 Members voted. For - 151, against - 262, holding down 2. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Mr. Marshal, what are you saying?]] [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Madam, please don't disturb me. [[But this is a formal conclusion.]] I'm addressing you in an art form. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3. At the moment, we are implementing the formal proposal voted by the High House, tabled by Mr Polak. [[Mr. Marshal, I have another formal conclusion.]] [[But there are other formal conclusions.]] [[I have another formal conclusion.]] [[Voice from the room: Another motion.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we are carrying out a formal application. If we do it, then we can look at other conclusions. [[Voice from the Chamber: The vote is realized.]] In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes... [[Mr. Marshal, you are in violation of the rules of the Sejm.]] Madam, I would like to draw your attention again under Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4. [[Sit down.]] I call you to order, and I find that your conduct makes it impossible for the Sejm to hold its proceedings. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: How can you not drive...]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] In the second amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 4. Amendments 3 and 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 2, 3 and 9, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 160, against - 261, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 4 The Senate proposes to amend point 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 158, against - 255, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 6. to Article. The 10th Senate proposes to add paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 6th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 156, against - 252, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. The 10th Senate proposes to add paragraph. 6. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendment 7 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. In - 153, against - 255, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 14 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 14. 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 8th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 158, against - 255, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 19 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 4. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 10th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 157, against - 259, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 20. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 11th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 154, against - 266, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 12, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 25. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 12th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 158, against - 258, with a hold of 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 29 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 13th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 157, against - 262, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this end we finished the examination of the Senate resolution on the Investment Act for the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War - Branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk. Formal conclusion. Member Richard Terlecki - formal application. There you go. [[Voice from the room: No!]] [[Mrs Pomaska!]] [[I was the first one.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u320	Mr. Marshal! I am making a formal request that the marshal exercise his authority and that we examine the amendments without question. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: And Mrs. Pomaska?]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] [[Mr. Marshal, the opposite voice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u321	I cannot accept this proposal because it is an appeal, ladies and gentlemen. There is no such request, no exercise of authority. [[A stir in the courtroom, a joy in the courtroom]] [[Scandal, scandal!]] The formal proposal may be, ladies and gentlemen, as previously stated by Jerzy Polaczek. Is Mr. Terlecki... [[Wrong mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u322	Mr. Marshal, earlier, you mentioned that this is your marshal's authority. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u323	Yes. [[Voice from the room: What mode?]] [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u324	I urge you to exercise your authority. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It was a joke.]] [[The voice from the hall: joke, joke.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u325	Okay, ladies and gentlemen. Then I will join the appeal and announce that I will not allow questions to be asked. [[Joy in the courtroom, applause, some Members hit their desks]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] We proceed to item 48 of the agenda... [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] We proceed with the examination of item 48 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and certain other laws (Prints No 3633 and 3677). [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] [[Jurek, the job's done, huh? Shame on you for life! You're gonna burn in hell!]] I will allow the formal proposals after the votes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Shame on you for life! You're gonna burn in hell.]] I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee. There you go. [[Game in the O.R.]] Member, please leave the stand. Please leave the podium. Mrs Pomaska and Mr Meysztowicz, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have given me the opportunity to discuss... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Dignity.]] ...and I say it in Art mode. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Please, sir. [[Voice from the room: Why do you need the rules?]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: There was a formal application.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u326	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finance has examined 14 Senate amendments [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] to the Act amending the Act on auditors. Amendments 2 and 9 were rejected by the committee, the remaining amendments were accepted by the committee and I recommend to the High House that these amendments be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u327	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the rules in the previous paragraphs. Amendments to 1. to 11. were tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 12 new wording of point 2a. We will consider this amendment in conjunction with amendments 3, 4, 6 to 8, 10 and 13. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among your fellow Members is against the aforementioned. Fixes, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, after this point I wanted a formal motion...]] 415 Members voted. For -7 against -408, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate proposes a new wording of point 4. We will consider this amendment together with Amendment 9. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 2 and 9, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 259, against - 158, 1 Member abstained. The Parliament's amendment accepted... Sorry: The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 94j The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 2. This amendment is linked to the 12th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 5 and 12, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. In -4, against - 405, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes among others. add Article. 157c. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 11th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. In -2, against - 416, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 39. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 14th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, you're breaking the rules of the Sejm.]] 421 Members voted. For - 1 Member, against - 420, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 49 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to reduce payment congestion (prints No 3631 and 3679). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee. [[Stay with us, stay with us!]] [[No questions asked, then why report?]] [[Voice from the room: It was supposed to be without debate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: No questions, then why report?]] The Committee on Public Finance has examined the Senate's amendments to this law and recommends that the High House adopt these amendments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u329	Thank you. We vote in accordance with the principles used in the previous paragraphs. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes that in Article. Article 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i. Paragraph 10 (1) of the Act on Income Tax on Individuals delete the words "or creditor'. Amendments 3 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 1, 3 and 6, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 116, against - 280, holding 13. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i, paragraph 26i. The 19th Personal Income Tax Act of the Senate proposes to amend the reference. Amendments 4 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 2, 4 and 7, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 121, against - 291, no one stopped. The Sejm has rejected the amendments... The Sejm accepted, I'm sorry. In Amendment 5. to Article. Point 7 (1) of the Law amending the Senate proposes an editorial amendment. We will consider this amendment in conjunction with amendments 8, 10, 11, 13, 14 and 16. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against these amendments, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. Nine was for, against - 403. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the article. Points 6 and 7 of the Law amending the Senate propose to add a reference to certain provisions of the Article. 13. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 9th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 123, against - 288, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Paragraph 10 (12) of the Law amending the Senate proposes that entities perform certain obligations only in the course of the proceedings. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 12th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For-- 133, against-- 275, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 10 point 12 of the Law amending the Senate proposes that the beginning of the deadline for the fulfilment of the money provision in question should be the date of service to the party of the order initiating the procedure. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of rejecting the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 129, against - 286, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of point 50 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws (prints No 3635 and 3680). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u330	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate submitted 17 amendments to the amendment of the Cleanliness and Order Act in the municipalities. The joint committees considered these amendments on 17 July and recommended that the High House adopt all 17 amendments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Amendments 11, 12 and 13. they should be voted on jointly. These are editorial amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u331	Thank you. We vote in accordance with the principles used in the previous paragraphs. The Senate amendments from 1 to 8 were tabled in Article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the Cleanliness and Order Law in municipalities. In the first amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) 4 The Senate proposes to delete the words or the competent authority of the inter-congregational relationship. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. In - 8, against - 399, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2a The Senate proposes to add point 5. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. In - 1, against - 398. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph 5. 1a. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 1 was for, against - 411. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 6c paragraph. 2b The Senate proposes a different scope of the reservation. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. In -2, against - 407. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 6c The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 2c. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 5th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. In - 1, against - 405. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 6j The Senate proposes to add paragraph. 3e. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 6th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. In - 3, against - 407, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 6k The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 3. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendment 7 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th Amendment, by deleting the amendment, the Senate proposes to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 9ja. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 8th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 1 for, 408 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th Amendment by adding an amendment to the Article. 4 amending the Law on Road Traffic The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. Article 7 71. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 9th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. In -2, against - 408. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments to the Senate from 10 to 12 have been tabled in Article. 6 amending act containing amendments to the Waste Act. In the 10th amendment to the article. 25 The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 6f and 6h. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 10th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Senate amendments: 11. 35c paragraph. 5, 12. Article 38b (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 6 to be entered in the calculation and points 1 to 4 and 13. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; Paragraph 7 (6) of the Amending Act is editorial. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against these amendments, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. Everyone was against it. [[Applause]] The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 14th amendment to the article. The 18th Law amending the Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 5. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 14th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, please concentrate. Then there'll be trouble again. 407 Members voted. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th Amendment, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 20 in the Amending Act. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 15th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - no one, against - 407, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. The 22nd Law amending the Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. The 28th Law amending the Senate proposes to add point 2a. The committees are asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who among you is against the 17th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 51 of the agenda: Report from the European Union Commission for European Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of an agreement (Prints No 3632 and 3660). I would like to ask Mrs Agatha Borowiec to present a report. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No discussion closed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u332	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the European Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of an agreement, print No 3632. High Seym! The Commission for European Union Affairs after having considered this resolution at its meeting on 17 July 2019. [[Talk to us, too.]] ...brings the High Sejm to accept the four amendments of the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u333	We vote in accordance with the principles used in the previous paragraphs. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the title of the Act. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against amendments 1 to 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 383 Members voted. In - 1, against - 382. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 4. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 377 Members voted. In -2, against - 375. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this end, we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of an agreement. We proceed with the examination of item 52 of the agenda: Selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs (Print No 3686). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you like to take the floor on this? [[Yes.]] Mr Meysztowicz, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're the one who won't let us speak, which is why I'm using the situation to tell you something. Mr. Marshal! If anyone in this courtroom fails to respect the Sejm, it is you. [[Applause]] [[But you're talking.]] Once again, you are scandalously holding a sitting of the Sejm with applause and smiles on the right side. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] It's just a scandal. [[Sit down.]] I hope, Marshal, that you will learn from what I say, and that you will finally behave honorably. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Hopefully by the fall.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u335	The Member's speech was out of the question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 3686, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 375 Members voted. For -364, against -6, holding off on 5. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. I'm gonna need you to read the message right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u336	I kindly inform you that today after the end of the voting block in Room 307 there will be a meeting in building B... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: One more vote.]] ... Parliamentary Parkinson's Disease Team. Thank you very much. [[That's it?]] [[One more thing.]] [[Voice from the hall: Haven't you forgotten the committees?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u337	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 53 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 3687). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print No 3687, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 361 Members voted. For - 347, against -3, the 11. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min. 05 hours 15 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 54 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Barbara Bartus, Anna Czech and Marek Pole from Law and Justice on the exclusion of the communication of Gorlice land and possible solutions to the problem within the existing voivodship roads and the national road No 28. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. Please, Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u338	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gorlice, Gorlicka land is a beautiful place with rich traditions, but located far from Warsaw, Krakow and other major centers. One of the basic everyday problems that affects the inhabitants of our entire region is the exclusion of communication. The lack of good, safe and fast roads has a huge and negative impact on the development opportunities of our region. And so, Minister, first of all, we need a very good connection between the district and the highway, which would be possible thanks to the reconstruction and modernization of the voivodeship roads towards Krakow by Zakliczyn, Wojnicz. I understand that I am talking here about the voivodship roads, but there is also a road no.28 through Gorlice, the national road. And even tourists who want to take advantage of the offer of the region, as well as people who want to travel south of Europe, travelling this road no.28 from Sącz in Podkarpatha, meet with huge traffic jams, obstacles. And I'm not talking about the situation when there's a winter period when there's no ramps under the so-called. Popska Góra or in the vicinity of Grybow to Ptaszkowa. Communication paralysis often occurs. Which is why I'd like to ask you what the Ministry of... I know that work has already been carried out as part of the project on Route 28, but what can the inhabitants of my land, the Gorlice land, and the courts expect in the coming years? What's the Ministry's plan yet? Can we expect that these problems that have existed for a long time - I know they're a little done here, but it's still not enough... What can we count on, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u339	Thank you very much, Member. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Rafał Weber. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u340	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Mr Fellowship, Dear Members, First of all, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Infrastructure is taking continuous action to improve the communication accessibility of every region of our country. In particular, with a view to sustainable, responsible development, we are taking consistent action that leads to a progressive improvement in the technical state of the road network. During this term - I will refer directly to the district of Gorlicka - seven tasks have been carried out on the network of national roads with the contribution of the state budget and the finances of the National Road Fund with a total amount of nearly PLN 20 million. We are convinced that these investments have a significant impact on the use of the road network in the Gorlice district. Their scope included the reconstruction of the intersection of the national road No 28 with the district road in the town of Ropa, secondly, the construction of pavements with a length of more than 400 m along the national road No 28 in Szymbark and over 700 m in Libusza, thirdly the construction of the bus bay in Gorlice, fourthly the construction of bridges over the Bielanka creek in Szymbark, on the Rodna Kąty creek in the town of Ropa and on the Ropa River in Klenczany. All further needs for the development of road infrastructure will be identified and analysed on an ongoing basis, taking into account objective criteria and implemented where financial resources are available. At the same time, the need to expand the existing network of national roads in Poland and the need to adapt infrastructure to European standards also led to the implementation of the so-called. Sądeczanki, i.e. the national road No 75 Brzesko - Nowy Sącz, and the extension of the national road No 73 on the section Pilzno - Jasło, as well as the construction of the ring road Pilzna, Brzostka, Kołaczyc and Jasła. As regards the national road No 75, work is being carried out on establishing the route in difficult mountainous areas. This investment is part of the 2014-2023 National Road Construction Programme and is now considered as a priority for preparatory work. The work in the area of the courtesan has met with great interest in local communities. The Ministry, together with the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways and the contractor of documentation, seeks to find compromise solutions that will satisfy all interested parties. In the light of the ongoing work, it should be assumed that the implementation of this important investment for the Court of Justice would be possible between 2024 and 2027, with an estimate that the earliest section, i.e. around 2024, will be built at Brzesk. As for the national road No 73, it is part of the country's basic communication system and constitutes a very important transport route to the motorway A4 through Pilzno, Jasło and further through the national road No 28 Krosno - Sanok, followed by the national road No 84 Urzzyki Dolne up to the border crossing with Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to stress that our actions focus not only on the implementation of tasks on national roads. We are aware that local authorities also have an impact on transport accessibility and communication accessibility, where funding is available under different mechanisms. In 2016 and 2018 the district task was carried out in Gorlicki County under the municipal and district road infrastructure development programme, with nearly PLN 1.5 million being co-financed and five municipal tasks with over PLN 5 million being co-financed, so that the total value of the co-financing under these investments amounts to PLN 6658 thousand. zł. In 2019, i.e. current, the Self-Government Road Fund has two municipal tasks on the list of tasks approved for co-financing, for which the amount of co-financing is 2,200 thousand. zł. And another tool, which is at the disposal of the Minister of Infrastructure and which is willingly used by local authorities, is a reserve of general subsidies. Only this year, under this tool, the local government received 1244 thousand. PLN as a co-financing for the extension of the district road no. 1506K Jankowa - Stróżna - Szalowa together with the construction of the bridge over the Stóżanka stream in Stróżna. If there are additional questions, of course the Ministry will answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u341	Thank you very much, Minister. Additional question - Mrs Barbara Bartus. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u342	Thank you, Marshal. Yes, Minister, there are additional questions. As important as the judge is, I don't have to tell anyone, because this popularly called 'deczanka road' is to connect the highway not only to our land to the court, but to run further, south of Europe, to Slovakia, Hungary. This is the opening of the road. And that's very important. It is also very important what the Minister was talking about, which is all the funding of local roads, and for that I thank you very warmly for the entire government, the Minister and the Prime Minister, because I often participate in the handing out of the promenades that you hand over to the voivode, and really the frequency of spending and the amount on these promenades is satisfactory. But I wanted to ask you further. In February of this year a big meeting took place in the Old Town, at which we talked and with the Marshal of the Voivodeship, and with the voivodeship about these communication problems. There we discussed the problem of crossing road 28 with voivodship roads. Our idea, i.e. The idea of Law and Justice, even from the municipal election campaign, was to build a roundabout, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so-called. Turbine roundabout. I know that the General Directorate of Roads and Motorways in Krakow said that she had two concepts. Only when will it take a further run, when can we expect that this intersection will be rebuilt in Profession?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u343	Member, please go to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u344	That would solve a big problem on Route 28, but would also make it easier to leave the center of Gorlic. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u345	Thank you. Please, Minister Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u346	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have diagnosed the problem of crossing in Gorlice, it is about crossing the national road no. 28 with the voivodeship road. In fact, security isn't very high at the moment. On the basis of discussions and also on the basis of conclusions which flowed to the Ministry of Infrastructure both from the society that lives in the area, from the inhabitants of Gorlice, the inhabitants of the Gorlick district, as well as from our very active parliamentarians, among others. Mrs Barbary Bartus, a decision has been made to start the work that will enable this investment to be carried out, namely the construction of this roundabout. We want to start preparatory work this year. In the first place we will prepare comprehensive documentation, which will consist of: geological development, traffic analysis, maps for design purposes and geodesic and legal documentation. Then we will proceed to the development of the construction project. And we are convinced that building this roundabout will help to improve traffic in the Gorlice itself, but also to improve road safety and all those who benefit from this intersection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But how?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u347	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Jarosław Gonciarz, Wojciech Szarama, Andrzej Gawron and Waldemar Andzel from Law and Justice will ask a question about the movement of electric scooters on public roads addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u348	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Over recent years, the number of users of electric scooters has increased several times in Poland, which are developing relatively high speed, sometimes even within 25 km/h, using traffic. Electric scooters are not vehicles because they have not been entered into traffic law. Their status is also not regulated in the Road Code. The problem of their occurrence is reflected when they are affected or when their users use an unauthorised zone or zone of residence. In the event of such a collision, however, there is a risk that the insurer may refuse to pay compensation due to the lack of regulation. In view of the above, I would like to ask: Does the Ministry intend to regulate the legal status of electric scooters? And the question arises from a great interest of residents in introducing scooters in my district, Gliwice, in Zabrze. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u349	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Rafał Weber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u350	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the topic of electric scooters is not only in the last days, weeks, but one can say that since spring very bearable. We see a great interest in this topic of residents of cities where electric scooters can be rented. We see a great use of the offer of this equipment, but we also see problems that are born on Polish sidewalks, on Polish streets, on Polish roads. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent months, new road users have appeared. So far it has been basically that road users were both vehicles: cars, motorcycles, bicycles, as well as pedestrians. For several months in larger cities, in Warsaw, in Silesia, in those cities which you mentioned, but also in Wrocław, in Poznań, there were also users of electric scooters who moved on road infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! As an infrastructure resort, we have prepared changes to legislation that include the rights and obligations of those who use electric scooters. The fundamental principle that we want to introduce is that the user of the personal transport device - that is what we called it - will have to use the bicycle infrastructure, i.e. bike paths, bicycle tracks, bike routes. If we adopt this law, and I hope that this will happen relatively soon, these users will be required to move just after the infrastructure for bicycles at a speed of not more than 25. We have written in the bill that this speed will be limited by design, i.e. all scooters, all personal transport devices, which will be available on the market both for sale and rental, will have to have such a structural limitation. When the road infrastructure does not have bicycle paths, such a user will be able to use the roads, but only if the maximum permitted speed on the road is 30 km/h. We believe that when a person using a scooter moves alongside a driving car that can travel at a speed higher than 30 km/h, it is too dangerous for anyone who uses an electric scooter. We believe that we should not allow such situations. When there is no cycle path, there will be no road on which the UTO user can move, there remains a pavement. We allow the use of pavement infrastructure by users of personal transport, i.e. users of electric scooters, but subject to compliance with the existing rule of law, i.e. art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Law on Road Traffic. This article now applies to cyclists, which is how a rider should behave when he is driving on the sidewalk. First of all, he has to watch out for the pedestrian, he has to adjust his driving, his behavior to the pedestrians. It is the pedestrians who have priority on the sidewalks, the pedestrians must feel safe on them, and anyone who is not a pedestrian on the sidewalk must adapt to those vulnerable road users. Another condition that needs to be met for personal transport equipment to be used is, according to our assumptions, the age of 10 years. A user aged 10 to 18 will have to hold a bike card. This is another example of how we copy bike solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not so that at this moment only Poland has not yet settled this issue. So far, only six European countries have introduced such legislation. We already have signals that they will be corrected after a short period of time. On the other hand, we did this job for a few weeks to prepare a good project. The project was prepared and sent as a government project to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. We look forward to including him in the list of legislative work. We hope that this draft law, as a government project, will be quickly processed by the Council of Ministers, will enter the Sejm and we will adopt this law together, because security requires it. not only users of electric scooters, but also pedestrians, cyclists and those who move motorcycles and cars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u351	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u352	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It's very good that the Ministry took care of this case. This is quite an important problem for big cities, because the events related to scooters on the sidewalks are increasing. I would therefore like to add a few points. Does the Ministry have statistics showing how many such events have occurred that cause damage to a pedestrian or a scooter? Do you have statistics like that in the ministry? I would also ask you to clarify whether the possible actions of the local government are provided for in this law, whether there is a defined scope of such activities. You were talking about the fundamental principle that cycling infrastructure should be accessible to scooters. Shouldn't we think about some opportunities for local governments to, for example, accept any additional solutions on your territory? I understand that if there's a bike card, it entitles you to move. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A scooter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u353	Thank you very much, sir. You will answer Minister Rafał Weber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Every event that has taken place in Poland so far, connected with the collision of the user of the electric scooter with pedestrians was very media. On the other hand, on the scale of all road events that occur every day on Polish roads, bike paths or sidewalks, this is not some stunning number. We discussed this at one of the meetings of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure. The police who have such data reported a percentage of all road events involving electric scooters. I don't want to twist anything, but it was a ferry compared to all road events, which unfortunately occur every day on Polish streets in big cities, in smaller towns, although it is true that such an event is immediately described by the media and is very much interested in such matters, is caused around it, let's say, some media storm. The scale of such events is not large, but of course we want to solve this problem, we want to introduce such a solution, which - as I said at the beginning - will strengthen the safety of all those who travel Polish roads every day, who use Polish road infrastructure, from roadways, streets, from bicycle paths, from pavements, so that everyone feels safe. The role of local authorities in this area will also be very large. Self-governments will be able to use the legal instruments they have to organise intra-city traffic, for example. exclude certain places and areas from the movement of scooters. I know that for example. The bathrooms in Warsaw are excluded from such movement, already there is a ban on moving on electric scooters. Thus, in this case, no legal basis that we introduce or intend to introduce is needed, local governments can already exercise the statutory powers they have and can react in such matters. Thank you very much for asking this question. I think it fits into this rhetoric of recent weeks, recent months, and shows that it really needs to be settled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u355	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Members Urszula Augustyn, Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka and Walda Dzikowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, on teachers who lost their professional qualifications as a result of the deformity of education and thus the possibility of employment. Question addressed to the Minister of National Education. The first question is asked by Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u356	Thank you, Marshal. As a result of continuous reforms in schools, teachers who are qualified for work lose them. I'll give you two examples. Two teachers graduated from a five-year Master's degree at the WSPS. Grzegorzewska in Warsaw in the direction of oligofrenopedagogic. This gave them full qualifications to teach children in special school all subjects in classes for children with every kind of disability. As a result of the deformity of the teacher who worked and works in elementary school all the time, these qualifications are held and retained. The second teacher who worked in junior high school and as a result of deformity was forced to change the place of work to primary school, she lost her qualifications. The completion of a five-year Master's degree in this field does not give you the qualification to work in a special elementary school. In order to hire a special teacher in primary school, he must first be qualified to work in a public school and then be qualified to work in a special school. What is the point of making such requirements, for example? the need to hire an outstanding oligofrenopedagog to work with children? And a second example. Until recently, the reform of the primary school led to the nature of the school. Many teachers have completed postgraduate studies or qualifying courses to teach this subject. Now nature is only in grade IV and teachers are not qualified to teach biology. In addition, the curatoria required that post-graduate school certificates be written: "She has qualifications" [[♪ The bell ♪]] to teach biology in middle school. And such certificates were issued. Now the parole board says that teachers aren't qualified to work in elementary school. This information is from the directors. Isn't it absurd that when it comes to teachers who have degrees from different degrees, it's now found that they don't have qualifications? When will the Ministry settle these issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u357	Thank you very much, Member. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Maciej Kopeć. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the question, of course, it must be stated that the deformity of education was introduced in 2009, i.e. the so-called. The reform of Minister Katarzyna Hall. At that time, the reform - started in the middle school in 2009 and in the high school of general education in 2012 - led to the fact that unfortunately they began to disappear from the high school of general education such subjects as history, biology, physics, geography, chemistry and also workshops. Because they were only in the first class and connected so-called. III and IV educational stages. This also reflected on other general education subjects that were taught. These reforms, which were also introduced at that time, are, for example, the school obligation of six-year-olds who introduced two double yearbooks into primary school. [[I'm asking for qualifications.]] Since the deformity was established, I also tried to answer that. However, due to the reform of the education system, no qualification requirements for teachers have been changed, in other words, the statement of changes is not justified. In 2017, a new regulation was issued by the Minister of National Education on the specific qualifications required of teachers, which defined qualifications for new types of schools introduced into the system but did not change the qualification requirements. In the case of schools and special institutions, changes in the required qualifications took place in 2002, which was a very long time ago, and consisted in the fact that schools and special institutions were divided into two groups. The first group included schools and special facilities for children and young people with disabilities other than intellectual disability to a significant, deep and moderate degree, which pursue the programme basis for general education. This applies to children and adolescents with hearing impairment, visual impairment and light intellectual disability. Teachers employed in these schools and institutions are required to be qualified to teach the subject and additionally to be qualified in special education in the field of a particular disability, i.e. oligofrenopedagogics, surdopedagogics, typflopedagogics, therapeutic pedagogy. The second group of schools and institutions are those for children and young people with intellectual disabilities to a moderate, significant and deep degree and combined disabilities. Teachers in these schools and special institutions are required to be qualified in oligofrenopedagogy. The above amendment took place, as mentioned, in 2002. These rules have not changed to date. Thus, teachers who have completed their Master's degree in oligofrenopedagogics are qualified to take up teaching positions in special kindergartens, schools and special institutions for children and young people with moderate, significant and deep intellectual disabilities as well as combined disabilities, as well as in special kindergartens, special schools and special institutions for children and young people with light intellectual disabilities, are involved in conducting educational and re-educational activities. Qualification for teaching the subject of nature. Currently, the nature object is realized in class IV of 8-year-old primary school, while in addition there are biology, geography, chemistry and physics subjects and are carried out respectively in classes V, VI, VII, VIII, i.e. in VII, VIII is physics and chemistry, while geography and biology begin earlier. In accordance with the provisions, a natural teacher's position at primary school may be taken by a person who has completed, as appropriate, a Bachelor's or Master's degree in the field of specialties in accordance with the subject taught; he has completed undergraduate or Master's degree in a course whose learning outcomes referred to in the Act of 22 December 2015 on ZSK, as regards knowledge and skills, include the content of the subject or activities taught in the curriculum for the subject at an appropriate educational stage, and has a pedagogical preparation; he has completed a Bachelor's or Master's degree in another course, speciality and postgraduate studies in the subject taught; she has completed a teacher's training establishment with a specialty corresponding to the subject. As regards the regulations for the completion of post-graduate studies, it should be noted that the vast majority of primary school teachers have acquired qualifications to teach nature by completing post-graduate studies. In view of the legal regulations that have been in force since 2003 regarding teacher education standards, post-graduate programmes in the field of preparation of the subject should be developed by universities taking into account the preparation of the participants. They were most often implemented in the case of teachers of biology, physics, geography and chemistry. Teachers of these subjects who have acquired such qualifications can, of course, carry out such activities. As regards the certificates of postgraduate studies in biology, chemistry, physics and geography for which university graduates have acquired qualifications to teach middle school, the structural and programme reform of the education system has assigned this to the current 8th grade primary school. Thus, if postgraduate studies have prepared to teach in middle school, they now also confirm their qualifications to teach in primary school.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u359	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Urszula Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u360	Thank you very much. I don't think it's right, Minister - it doesn't hold up with the seriousness of your position - to make jokes about teachers who are having trouble working in schools today. You're wrong. I don't want to use a stronger word, but you're wrong because the taught subjects didn't disappear from school. None of your witty words are going to change that. Take a good look at the network of hours. I want to tell you that school principals today have a problem hiring teachers who have written on post-graduate certificates or diplomas that they can teach biology in middle school. If they've taught nature so far because they have such predispositions and such studies... Today either the parole board is uninformed, or you're completely mistaken, because teachers can't work. Give us your position in writing so that school principals can hire teachers quietly. If you combine teaching subjects [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today is different because you are preparing laws and regulations on your knees, and there is no reason to hire such a teacher, so give us in writing a pad for the school principal so that he can hire a teacher according to what kind of school he graduated from. You did the same for teachers in kindergartens, because today, in a sloppy bill, there are no indications...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u361	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u362	...so that the kindergarten educators can pay higher salaries.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u363	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u364	If you make a mess, now spend...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u365	You're already over a minute out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u366	...appropriate correction or change the law. You can do this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u367	Thank you very much. Minister Maciej Kopeć, Ministry of National Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I don't want to talk about what the Vice Minister of Education says about what he says. However, we are talking about qualifications. Most of the time, as I said, they were qualifications that were obtained by a teacher with other qualifications. In other words, he graduated from postgraduate studies and was qualified to teach nature at primary school. As I said, they were most often teachers - because this was the case from the scope and since 2003 from the standards of teaching - four natural subjects, namely physics, chemistry, biology and geography. Now those teachers who are qualified to complete postgraduate studies can, of course, continue to teach the subject of nature, which is realized in class IV, while this block of nature, which functioned in primary school, has been divided into biology, physics, geography and chemistry. Geography and biology are realized from class V, physics and chemistry are realized from class VII. Teachers are entitled to teach these natural subjects if they have such qualifications. [[They're not.]] As far as nature teachers are concerned, most of them were teachers of these four natural subjects, but they were also teachers entitled to teach mathematics, computer science, physical education, teaching in special education, teaching in WJW, foreign languages and other subjects. Of course, according to their qualifications, they can continue to teach these subjects at primary school. In other words, the qualifications they acquired are enough to teach other subjects in primary school. If at the same time these qualifications are required for teaching e.g. In general high school, they can lead this teaching at the same time. Perhaps some of the problems you are talking about are due to the circumcision in previous years of the probation officer's powers, who has lost the right to review the worksheets of the school. In other words, no one except the headmaster has verified the qualifications of teachers. On the other hand, what the school curator thinks is about the worksheet of the school, about hours, that is, what is in the framework teaching plans and also about the qualifications of teachers. We have two fundamental issues required by the education curator and perhaps this is imposed on [[♪ The bell ♪]] errors that have been made in previous years. [[Give it to us in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u369	Your Marshal, I kindly ask that the Minister be obliged to give this reply in writing, as this will facilitate the work of the directors.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u370	I don't think there's any obligation. Minister, if you don't mind, go ahead. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked by Andrzej Maciejewski and Jarosław Sachajko from the Kukiz Poselski Club15. The question is about media expenditure of government administration and Treasury companies broken down by radio, television, Internet media, billboards including social campaigns. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u371	Good morning. Minister, I understand that the Minister will answer? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Our question is a consequence of what I started as a Member at the beginning of my term of office when I asked the Prime Minister at the time to provide information about expenditure mainly from companies of the Treasury in the years 2007 and 2015 because there was a trace and some steps in this direction were carried out by experts of the Jagiellonian Institute, but they did not receive information. I have therefore decided, as an MEP, to raise such a question. I have received an answer and I thought it would be good practice for the future that, if not every year, at least now, when we are approaching the end of this four-year term, such a form of good practice, transparency, transparency, and at the same time making available to the public what power can do, whether by companies of the Treasury or through ministries. Just to remind you that between 2007 and 2015 a total amount of PLN 356 million was spent from the State Treasury companies. We're talking about really big money. This money also went to various media. Only 45 million went to public media and more than 310 million were transferred to private companies and private media. So we're talking about big amounts and big money. At the same time, we are talking about the fact that in order to build a good practice and since the term of office is over and we are closing this four-year period, the government [[♪ The bell ♪]] He'd have an opportunity to sum it up, too. I'll be grateful for your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u372	Thank you very much, sir. The answer will be given by Minister Paweł Szrot, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u373	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! At first, I'd like to start with one thing. Mr President, the author of the question, with full understanding of your question and respect for your intentions, in my personal opinion, the form of the question on current matters is not particularly appropriate and beneficial to the information requested. Mr President, we have 20 resorts, several dozen central offices, several hundred companies of the Treasury. Of course, we have already begun to gather information on your question, but for a day and a half, as we have had so much time, the presentation of comprehensive information is absolutely impossible, all the more so since 2015. Of course, I am committed to providing you with as comprehensive information as possible in writing. At this point, I can only point out examples of information that such media spending was, of course, and was functioning. As an example, I can identify the campaigns run by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. This is particularly important, as part of the programmes of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, one can say that even the most crucial and fundamental part, like the programme 500+, in its very essence, provided for such social interaction in instructing the public and partners and beneficiaries of these programmes in order to fulfil their proposals. It is obvious that in order for everything to work properly, an information campaign had to be conducted. Also the Ministry of National Education, still this year, conducted a media and information campaign before the Matura exams, which, as you know, everywhere took place without interference, and this is also the result of the information campaign that was conducted by the Ministry of National Education. The Ministry of Infrastructure has conducted a number of road safety campaigns. The Ministry of Health has also campaigned for the prevention of certain diseases. These are, of course, just examples. Mr President, there will be much, much more in the written information of these items. I stress that ministries, central offices are obliged to inform the public of their actions. In the case of ministries and the Council of Ministers, this is even a statutory obligation. They must inform the public of their decisions. There is one more thing I would like to draw attention to, sir. The Act adopted during this period, which you are asking about, the Law of 16 December 2016 on the rules for the management of state property, imposed an obligation on an entity entitled to exercise the rights of shares belonging to the State Treasury to take action to introduce, by way of a resolution of the general meeting in the statutes of the company, a requirement for the governing body to submit to the General Assembly a report on representation expenses, legal services, marketing services and services in the field of human relations, i.e. public relations. This, of course, concerns those media expenditures you have been asking about in the area of treasury companies. All these reports are published consecutively in financial years on the website of the Ministry of Justice at ekrs.ms.gov.pl. Of course, I am not sending you back to this site. We will try to give you as full information as possible in writing. Please accept this information with full understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u374	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u375	Thank you, Marshal. I was aware of that, Minister, I expected such an answer. She interests me and I am glad because I am aware, based on my experience and previous questions in this formula, how great this is the thematic area. I'm gonna expect an answer in writing, and I'm gonna want to pass it on to think tanks, to the media, so that there's this transparency that's going to be passed on and it's going to work. I'll be waiting for an answer. Thank you for your information.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u376	Thank you very much. Are you the Minister? Thank you. In this case, we move on to another question, prepared by Mr Łopata, Mr Maliszewski and Mr Kasprzak from the Polish People's Party, on the issue of a disadvantage for Polish agriculture, in particular for the animal production sector, the agreement to create a free trade zone between the European Union and the Common Market in the South. The question was addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. The question is asked by Mr Jan Łopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u377	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We would like to ask you a question from the area of agriculture, which until recently seemed stable and cost-effective, as one of the few areas in agriculture. Unfortunately, you can already speak in the past tense, because the prices of cattle fall from week to week, or even twice a week, because such quotations are taking place, and in recent times they have strongly overshadowed all categories of cattle. Buying-in facilities explain the situation with a clear inhibition of trade in beef, and not only in the global market, but there are very limited exports to Israel, for example. But the problem is also clogged, so I would have it called the European market, which is the main recipient of Polish beef. Some farmers are prepared to keep their cattle waiting for better times, with such hope. Here is another problem, because some buyers have introduced restrictions on the age of bulls, from 30 to 24 months. Moreover, the beef sector has recently been faced with another threat in the form of a trade agreement with the countries of South America, under which the European market has adopted almost 100,000. South American meat. The situation is getting more tragic every week. It is no longer possible to talk about cost-effectiveness here, especially since it is difficult to predict how long this deconuncture will last. As a result, the financial liquidity of many farms targeted at the production of meat cattle is at risk. There are signals coming from farmers about the need for immediate action, including in the form of protests. Many farmers come to our parliamentary offices with such a problem. Therefore, we have questions that we have formulated and which you have received in writing, and which I will now make: Do the Polish government [[♪ The bell ♪]] supports the conclusion of an agreement between the European Union and the Common Market in the South? Is the Polish government taking active action to protect meat cattle producers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u378	Thank you very much, sir. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ryszard Zarudzki. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u379	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for that question. As far as Mercosur is concerned, on 28 June, the European Commission, on behalf of the Union and the Mercosur countries, announced a political agreement, i.e. political agreement. This is a long-term future. I calm down in the first words, there is no danger in terms of the terms of these negotiations, because, you can say, there are only technical arrangements that can last up to 2 years. Let me remind you, first of all, I'm addressing producers, all those who are trying to take advantage of this situation a little bit, because you know, it's such a mess as on any stock market, and here's the thing: oh, it's going to flood our product and the prices are going to be lower right away. There's a breakdown we can see, but there are remedies. I would like to say firmly that Mercosur and the arrangements between the four countries and the European Union... With us, the Ministry of Agriculture has been actively working and giving away this information. Our position is clear. It is the governments of the countries that will eventually accept ratification of agreements and agreements, so unity is needed. I will remind you, as the best example of what will happen in Mercosur's cases, namely that CETA has not yet been ratified, so I am calming down. There's a lot to talk about here. According to the European Commission, it may take about 2 years to prepare the text of the agreement with Mercosur and to complete the procedures required before its entry into force. As far as ratification is concerned, then there will be individual countries. So I wouldn't cause unnecessary confusion. There is one thing that must be firmly said and stressed that this is a political agreement, that is the end of the term of office, that is some general agreement of the negotiators. There's work going on right now. We are asking - our parliamentarians in the European Parliament report on this issue - to learn very much about the content. Such negotiations take place, as we know, always according to a certain procedure and immediately everything on the table... Since these negotiations are over, we want to know their details. Those are the details we'll get to know. I can assure you that from this information we have, there is no threat. Second thing. Poland has requested that there be no full liberalisation of this trade. We know that we have sensitive areas, and that's true, beef poultry, pork, sugar and bioethanol. I have it specified in this information. This can still be done in writing if needed. There is no need for me to discuss this thoroughly and in detail. There are eight specific demands that Poland has put forward. We know we have that warranty on the other side. Namely, in a moment there will be ratification. If this is not in line with the Polish state rations, the agricultural state rations, so I can say, a government that cares about the interests of farmers and is responsible for rural development, simply this agreement will not be ratified. But it's all ahead of us. I would like to talk first of all about these companies. I go to meetings myself. I see and confirm what you have said about this momentary use of this situation. We are trying, and the Minister also spoke very loudly at the meeting of the Ministerial Council in Brussels, with all the methods and opportunities available to us to alleviate this situation. And as I know life, you need a little patience, a little conviction that this situation will stabilize. That's the first thing. However, all countries recently at the meeting of the European Union Council in Brussels have also notified their accession to create a fund that will regulate if such risks were to be aggravated as regards this situation in order to compensate for the existing situation. That's the first thing. The second thing is that our support for producers, in particular meat cattle, because this is what we are talking about, is also within the framework of production payments. It's about the direct payments that they regulate, I remind you, those things. At the moment, because of the drought, we are working in the European Commission, as we have done before, so that advance payments can already be paid, i.e. since October 15th. Let me also remind you that the payments for cattle and cows, once again, are compensation for precisely low prices. It's not some big money, but it guarantees a certain liquidity to buy funds for a new period, for a new year. I will also remind you that we have a welfare action under the Rural Development Programme, which has already been approved by the European Commission. We are not only talking about the welfare of dairy cows, because we also use crosswords for meat, cross and we have bulls for meat. It's about the welfare of mammal cows. We have some solutions, some subsidies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is serious support for farmers. We're trying to keep an eye on these things, keep an eye on the business of this industry, which is important to us and development. There is no risk of Mercosur in the case of Polish beef. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u380	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u381	Minister! Mercosur's agreement is extremely unfavourable for Polish agriculture, and it is not only for Polish agriculture, because many countries of the European Union also raise this issue. And this is not the moment when you have to calm down and underestimate the deal with South America in the trade in agricultural products that liberalizes these rules, but you have to say with a firm, strong voice that we do not agree to it. It was also necessary to say with a firm voice that we did not agree to the ceta agreement. And the Minister has just stated here that it is not in force, and it has been ratified by the votes of law and justice in this parliament. I would also like to draw attention to another trade agreement that has recently been concluded. This is the 2017 agreement concluded between the European Union and Ukraine with the approval of the government, which results in Ukraine having a very positive trade balance for food with the European Union, i.e. approx. $10 billion per year, and Poland's share of this import from Ukraine amounts to around 15%. We're the most vulnerable. This agreement of the European Union and Ukraine provides for the application of safeguard clauses if certain products threaten Union products. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will Poland ask the European Commission, or maybe it has already applied, Minister, to launch safeguard clauses for products that are in Poland, for which Ukrainian products are a direct threat? We also ask for written information on the analysis of the Mercosur Agreement so that we, as Members, can draw these conclusions as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u382	Thank you very much. Minister Ryszard Zarudzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u383	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! It is good that we take care of the interests of Polish farmers together. Only such a question can confirm what we are doing in the case of both Ukraine and Mercosur. I think that the best answer, without getting into the details, is to send information related to our interventions, full information - I think it will be published in the media, also on the website - about our regulations in the context of activity. They are very clear, defined in the context of signed contracts as if by system, not only in the case of Mercosur and our relationship with the Ukrainian market. I assure you of our activity on the Brussels and other countries, agriculture ministers. You'll receive the information in writing. The communication on this issue will also be placed on the website to reach the widest possible audience. I thank you again for this question, because this is the only thing that enables us to announce to the wider public, in particular to all farmers interested in this issue, information on what is the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u384	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Marek Matuszewski, Alicja Kaczorowska and Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice. The question about a dangerous landfill in Zgierz's territory is addressed to the Minister of the Environment. The question is asked by Marek Matuszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to address the Minister on the landfill of hazardous waste in Zgierza, which is a remnant of the liquidated Boruta S.A. Barwniki Industry Plant, which is currently managed by Eko-Boruta Zgierz, located at ul. Mirosewska. It is a landfill of ashes and plasters from factory furnaces, a landfill of industrial waste behind Bzura, located in a direct riverbed, a landfill of hazardous waste at ul. Miroszewska has been operating since 1995. There could be 200,000 buried in the ground in this area. barrels containing mercury, lead, cadmium, benzene, cyanides, asbestos, combat gases that come out of the ground in the form of poisonous gas, and other dangerous substances. There is a high risk of contamination of the area and a high probability of sealing barrels with dangerous chemicals. The barrels corrode, and there's still smoke from the landfill. Earth in many places reaches a temperature of over 100 degrees, air in this area can be poisonous and carcinogenic. The area after the liquidation of the Zakłady Przemysłu Barwników (Boruta) is a dangerous place for the health and life of the inhabitants of Zgierza, as well as the surrounding municipalities. The concerns of the local community are fully justified. The warehouse has no safeguards, and the owner has not taken any action to rehabilitate the area. Recultivating the landfill of hazardous waste is the way out of this situation. In order to do this, Eko-Boruta has to transfer the territory to the local authorities. The President of the city of Zgierza has committed himself to taking over the land because without taking over the land, the city will not be able to obtain funding for the rehabilitation. Minister, what can the Ministry of the Environment do about this? Can the Ministry indicate from which sources the city of Zgierz will be able to obtain finance for the rehabilitation of the above mentioned area? I also want to thank the Ministry of Environment [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the Environment Inspection working 7 days a week and 24 hours a day. I would like to remind you that under the Platform and PSL, control was possible from time to time. 8 to 15 and it took 7 days to notify the controlled entity in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u386	Thank you very much, sir. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Sławomir Mazurek. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u387	Thank you very much, Marshal! Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the work that you have done so far. You belong to those Members who are permanent guests at the Ministry of the Environment, informing us about issues related to these threats. I also had the honour of being with you immediately after the fire that took place in Zgierz. A spectacular fire, but very important, also from the perspective of everything that happened later. As far as the answer to your question is concerned, here we are dealing with a landfill located in Zgierz in the area of the former Color Industry Departments of Boruta. Diagnosing this problem, I would like to point out in the first place that the Bouruta Industry plants have passed into the hands of private operators. There are three sites in the former plants: landfill of post-production waste, including hazardous waste, landfill of plasters and ashes and so-called landfills. landfill behind Bzura, which is not a landfill within the meaning of the Waste Act. The properties on which landfills are situated are the property of the State Treasury and remain in perpetual use of Eko-Boruta Sp. a.k.a., which among others. abandoned the remediation of the landfill of post-production waste. Large amounts of waste of unknown composition and origin have been deposited on the site of these landfills. The landfill of post-production waste, including hazardous waste, requires technical intervention to stop its progressive degradation. In particular, the northern slope of the landfill slides, reveals the barrels and, as the Member has pointed out, the fluid from the trench is spilled to the ground. As far as our actions so far have been concerned, regular inspections have taken place in recent years of ash landfills, plasters and post-production waste landfills by the Environmental Protection Inspection, both during the reception of waste to the landfill and during the rehabilitation phase, combined with the carrying out of studies to assess the environmental impact. Here we are talking about hazardous waste and non-dangerous waste. In view of the analysis of the results, in particular of post-production waste, which indicates that pollution is exceeded, environmental authorities have acted in accordance with the competence of Eko-Boruta, including notification to the prosecution. As far as further action is concerned, close supervision is carried out by the Provincial Environmental Protection Supervisor. Research is being carried out to assess the state of the environment, because we still need to monitor this area due to the proximity of the river Bzura, groundwater, soil so as to have full knowledge. The cliff behind Bzura is also monitored, and it is also the edge of the river trough, which is extremely important. We also observe the state of vegetation, which is also an indicator of the functioning of the environment. The results of the IIA audit indicate the need to start the remediation of ash and plaster landfills as soon as possible and the landfill of hazardous and non- hazardous after-production waste, as well as the landfills behind Bzura, and to remove from the landfill those waste which should not be deposited on it and to carry out the collapse of the northern storage site of post-production waste. There is currently a substantial landfill of waste, which has resulted in the spilling of these effluents. As a result, the likelihood of increased concentrations of pollutants in piesometers is increasing, as we also see such pollutants in them. It is therefore necessary to isolate the areas of these two landfills from the landfill and from the impact to the rainwater. It's also about reducing the amount of leaks. The waste dump has bottom isolation and drainage, the others unfortunately do not have, it can be said that it was a kind of wild landfill. One possible way to solve the problem with the landfill behind Bzura is to use the current provisions of the Environmental Law and recognise this area as historical pollution or as an area affected by historical pollution. At the beginning of this year the Marshal of the Łódź Voivodship submitted an application to the Old Town of Zgierz. The Starosta must identify the site as a potential historical pollution of the earth's surface and enter it in the historical pollution register. This will make it possible to transfer the case to WDOŚ in Łódź. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, There is virtually no possibility of enforcing any obligations from Eko-Boruta, after all, the case is not a case from 4 years ago, but it has been conducted for many years and since then I have also been in contact with your Member. This area requires the local government to take over in a comprehensive manner. As far as the acquisition of the site by the city is concerned, this is a prerequisite for raising funds for the rehabilitation of degraded areas. The Liquidator appointed jointly at the request of WIAŚ in Łódź and the President of the city of Zgierza conducts activities aimed at taking over the property. The Ministry of Environment also operates a team for degraded areas. We have prepared concrete solutions that have been voted on today in this Chamber. I thank all Members for their support. I'm talking about the novelty of the law on maintaining cleanliness and order in the municipalities. It introduces a special tool that will enable the removal of pollution of this type to be financed quickly through support from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. It will be an efficient tool for local governments, which will help solve the problem also in Zgierz. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u388	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Marek Matuszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u389	Minister! On 25 May 2018, a huge fire occurred in an illegal garbage dump in the Boruta Industrial Park in Zgierz. There was a huge air pollution, which was particularly burdensome for the inhabitants of Zgierza and neighbouring municipalities. People's health has been compromised. Putting out the fire cost a lot of effort and sacrifice from the State Fire and Volunteer Firefighters, who must be warmly thanked for their commitment. The action also absorbed huge financial resources. To this day, the firehouse is unexploded. The fire department gets called in every now and then. The question of how much negligence on the part of the district aging - i.e. the Platform coalition and PSL - has already been investigated by the relevant state authorities: the prosecution and others. The most appropriate solution would be to charge the costs of owners of these, often illegal, landfills - after all not only in Zgierz, but also for example. such situations took place in Grabów in the Łódź voivodship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is: What solutions can be used to remove such a fireplace and rehabilitate this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u390	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Sławomir Mazurek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As for the fire in Zgierz, I think this cloud of smoke that hovered over the city, over this area, has reached a wide range of people. I remember the moment when you and I were there, and we saw with what sacrifice the firefighters had put out that fire. That fire could have been avoided. It wouldn't have happened if it hadn't been for certain decisions taken by an old lady who, contrary to what the regional environmental inspector said, had agreed to the state of the installation that he was there. The Hungarian Starosta did not take this position into account and authorised the company to collect non-hazardous waste for a limited period of time until 30 April 2018. The fire broke out in May 2018. With regard to the actions we are taking, this is the continuation of control activities and the execution of the decision imposed by WIA - an administrative penalty for waste management of PLN 1 million. The level of penalties imposed on those who break the law on environmental matters has really increased significantly and these penalties are dissuasive. We will also submit a proposal to the President of the city of Zgierz regarding the commitment of Green Tech Solutions sp. z o.o. to dispose of waste in accordance with Article. 26 Waste Act in respect of waste stored without authorisation. As far as sources of financing for waste disposal are concerned, the principle first applies: the polluter pays. The source of funding may also be the priority programme of the National Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Water Management of Land Surface Protection, which involves the remediation of degraded areas. It is now possible to transfer support to the selected projects if requested by the local authority. I was talking about that, answering the first part of your question. In other cases, support shall be provided in the form of a preferential loan both for waste holders and for public entities carrying out projects in a replacement procedure for the obliged entity. We have also made significant changes in environmental legislation. Of course, the work had been done before, and we were preparing it. Even before the fire in Zgierz there was a public consultation of these records, but they gained power and were adopted by the High House after the fire. I would like to say that the environmental inspection is working, as you said, and is an effective tool. We send waste that comes to Poland even e.g. from Great Britain. Entrepreneurs who are notoriously violating regulations have a wolf ticket. We have also introduced a number of provisions that will allow for the immediate disposal of waste by the competent authorities of the environment if there is a threat to human health and life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u392	Thank you, Minister. We're feeling calmed. Let's move on to the next question. They will be presented by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel and Bożenna Bukievcz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. The question concerns a series of fires in landfills and landfills of hazardous waste. It is also addressed to the Minister of Environment. Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u393	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For 2 years we have been observing the explosion of fires with hazardous waste collected in landfills and landfills in Poland. Into the atmosphere are dangerous substances for health. In 2018 there were more than 70 such fires. Hundreds of thousands of tons of waste from different parts of the world come to Poland every year. Domestic companies import trash from Germany, Great Britain, Italy, and even far away Australia. In 2017, as many as 226 approvals were issued for the so-called. cross-border shipments of waste. According to foreign media, you can make a pretty good living in the storage of foreign trash. Worse, or actually dramatic, is the issue of the disposal of the collected waste. It's too expensive to do this legally. The number of incineration plants is insufficient and they have limits. Longer storage of waste in landfills does not pay either - it costs 270 PLN per tonne. This is why the waste burns and additionally pollutes already contaminated air. Therefore, Minister, I ask the questions: What are the causes of these fires? How many fires occurred in 2018 and 2019? How many consents were issued for cross-border shipments of waste? How many people have suffered the consequences of fires? Have the fire areas been cleared and properly secured? What did the government do in this case after the announcements in 2018 and what are the results of this? For some questions You've already answered me before, but I'd like it to sound like it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u394	Thank you very much, Member. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Sławomir Mazurek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u395	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for this question, and also for the introduction to this question, because this is an extraordinary, great opportunity to say what these wastes are from faraway Australia. This is battery scrap, because Poland is a power in the region when it comes to recycling old batteries, it is an extremely valuable raw material. I would also like to clarify that when it comes to the figures we are talking about, we are talking about waste which is covered by full insurance, because it is cross-border movement, it is regulated by international rules and these waste must go to recyclers. I would also like to say that I very much like to show the example of Germany, but also other European countries... A country like Germany brings ten times more of these raw materials into recycling. Since we are moving towards a circular economy, we want to develop this recycling. Also, the measures that will be from the European Union in the new perspective are those for recycling. Unfortunately not on incinerators, unfortunately not on so-called. RIPOK-i. Many years ago, we made a big mistake, ladies and gentlemen, we put on installations in Poland, where waste goes and whose efficiency is between 3 and 8%, and as recently said by someone in the waste industry, we have placed monuments for PLN 200 million. These are the installations that were financed by European funds, and today they actually produce most of the raw material for incineration plants, they produce RDFs, and they do not do what we need to do, that is, what concerns the implementation of recycling levels. But of course that's gonna change. This will not only be forced by European legislation, but also by the provisions that are in the plan for responsible development, where we want to bet on the economy of closed circulation, and that is our main objective. The numbers are shown here very often, but they have been shown since 2015. However, we can say that actual imports of waste into Poland occurred in some years up to 1 million tons. We're talking about these raw materials, of course. We can say that in 2012 it was 917 thousand. a. That was a lot of stuff, too. So these data are very often shown, but in such a negative context, that they are some garbage that fills Poland. What, ladies and gentlemen, was it on fire? Wastes that came to Poland illegally burned. These raw materials weren't on fire. It's not those numbers, it's not the magic of the big numbers that comes up very often. Poland is not a dumpster of Europe. Poland is consistently fighting trash mafias, and we are consistently introducing rules that limit opportunities. Today, in fact, a truck driver who wants to transport waste must be aware that if he breaks the rules, he can pay up to 100,000. Punishment. It must, it is also important, be registered in the waste database. The register has been operational since the beginning of this year and has already fulfilled its task, and yet we are launching further modules of the waste database - registration module, registration module. Everything will be electronic, today actually some of these elements are in paper form. And that's a good tool. Unfortunately, there was an accusation in this Chamber that the Minister of the Environment had annulled the tender. It was not necessary to cancel the tender for the waste database in 2015, because - also in the opinion of the other authorities of the State that are responsible for this area - there were no relevant regulations, so it is difficult to organise the tender when the framework for this tender is not really known when it is actually exposed to the failure. And we want to fight effectively. Thus, we implement the database of waste data by agile method, using the Institute of Environmental Protection, which runs one of the largest databases in Poland, emission bases. So that's also the kind of thing that allows us to do that. As for the part of the question that concerns those fires and places that remain after these fires, emissions are sent to such places every time mobile stations of voivodship environmental inspections are sent. As it was said, 7 days a week, 24 hours a day inspection is ready to serve citizens and the environment. We are present in the field, we measure, we cooperate with other services. Every time we fire like this, we use all the tools we have to force the landlord, the landlord, to dispose of the waste. Where this is not possible - this was already mentioned here today - there is a special tool, thanks to the High House voted over, which gives a quick path to such dangerous places or waste dumps effectively secure. At the same time, it's all about... I'm glad you asked, because I can correct it. Despite our very active policies, including social media... We try, on each portal under the entry of the Civic Platform, where these numbers are mentioned and this is shown as a garbage dump, we present these data, also since 2008, to show how these raw materials came to Poland. But we're also talking about our neighbors processing them significantly more. Importantly, we have benefited from this experience of cross-border shipments of waste, ladies and gentlemen, because there is insurance there. - if there is something going on with this waste, there is a financial guarantee, which represents a certain percentage, but guarantees the protection of this waste. And in this case, already today everyone who deals with waste management in Poland, every entrepreneur must have such a security, a financial guarantee which will allow that responsibility not to rest on the entities to which we refer, on the local authorities. So this is all about... Also, penalties have been increased for all those who break the rules, and we have also introduced a wolf ticket. So there's a series of records that throw out all those environmental criminals who do this kind of thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's hard. Thank you very much for this question and for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u396	Thank you very much. Additional question, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u397	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm going to ask you in writing to answer those questions that I put, but as to what I said earlier, I would like to present to you the situation in Chybie County. It is a small municipality in the south of Silesia, located between Bielsko and Cieszyn - a small municipality of Chybie, where there was a sugar factory where the waste was collected, the illegal ones. Although the owner of the property is the State Treasury, it was the municipality that incurred the costs associated with the fire-rescue operation. Mr Lybia asked me, probably other Members, to help him and to ask the Minister how may compensate for the costs incurred. There are probably more such situations in Poland. Do you have any particular solutions in this regard, proposals? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u398	Thank you very much. And Minister Sławomir Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u399	Ladies and gentlemen! Despite such restrictive law, unfortunately, in many areas of this type of phenomenon are taking place. Despite very good criminal law law we have cases of drastic crimes, despite all, so unfortunately different situations will happen. With regard to what is happening, the responsibility of local governments in this area is of course crucial and it is good that local governments are taking these initiatives. As far as compensation is concerned, it is difficult for me to say this because this does not directly concern the Minister of the Environment. Of course, we will answer this question in writing, how can we... What the Minister of Environment has at his disposal is the National Environmental Fund and the Regional Environmental Funds. The role of the Minister for the Environment is to ensure that good law is not repeated. Unfortunately, we didn't have those records, the situation required that we clean up this problem. You are talking about one very important case, which shows the problem, but we, ladies and gentlemen, have 3.5 million tons of waste in Poland, which we need to clean up. These are powerful quantities and of course there is a need for proper risk analysis, consistent actions. Therefore, the Minister for the Environment has set up a team on degraded land to deal with such cases in order to look for the latest legislation. In cooperation with the whole government, in cooperation with Parliament, such legislation has been prepared and introduced to counter this type of phenomenon, because of course this is a problem that needs to be solved. Here we are certainly ready to always help local governments, as far as possible in such cases that these problems are solved, but this is a serious problem, because it can be said that this problem has already existed, it works. As for the tools that are involved in assisting local authorities in such situations, of course we can answer, but the key is that the polluter pays. The one who led to such a situation, often making a decision, as in the case of Zgierz, is responsible, but still the owner of the land, the owner of the waste, is responsible. And first of all, I am also grateful to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for setting up this team, and we are now working closely with the prosecution, with the special forces. At the time, the ABW led this team, which has just identified such problems, a phenomenon that makes us very active with the National Tax Administration today. From this point on, I thanked Minister Banasi yesterday for this cooperation, also with other services, in order to combat these cases. We've already had our first results. The waste was sent to the UK, which came to us under the appearance of a green list, and the people who were involved in the trash mafia in Małopolska were arrested. This type of action we want to lead in the first place, so that Poles not only have a sense of security, but live in an environment of ever better quality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u400	Thank you very much, Minister. Another question prepared by Ewa Kołodziej and Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, on the need to increase the amount for reimbursement of antidiabetic medicines and to compensate for the access to modern therapies for people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, regardless of age. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u401	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Both the lack of medicines and the interruption of treatment with chronic diseases can cause irreversible changes in patients' health. On 8 July this year, the Chief Pharmacy Chamber, in a letter addressed to the Minister, pointed to the problem of over 300 drugs constantly at risk of lack of availability for patients, as well as a problem with nearly half a thousand medicinal products. A major problem with the current drug crisis is also due to the fact that many medicines cannot be used as substitutes, but the problem is much bigger, because not only expensive, original medicines are missing, but also those replacements. The biggest horror is the fact that even the drugs are missing in hospital pharmacies. There are problems with getting preparations for hypertension, thyroid disease, asthma, allergies and, of course, diabetes. Even basic insulin is missing. Pharmacists are alerting that oncology and neurological medications are also beginning to run out. It is estimated that this problem concerns between 11 and more than 20 million Poles. There are over 3 million people with diabetes in Poland. The current crisis and lack of proper government action are endangering the health and life of many Poles. Therefore, today with full responsibility one can say: it is the government's fault, not the pharmacists, not the doctors, not the drug producers. Therefore, Minister, I ask you to answer the following questions: Why has the availability of medicines for patients not been adequately monitored? Has action been taken to identify much earlier phenomena resulting in a lack of availability of drugs as a result of criminal activities? What steps have the Ministry taken and planned to take to remedy the shortage of drugs in pharmacies, in particular to address current shortcomings? How long does the government think this crisis will last? Is intervention buying-in under consideration by the government? Is the Ministry engaged in discussions with national producers to strengthen domestic drug producers and to make production of at least key medicines independent of this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's going on in Asia? The problem is further aggravated by so-called fiction. the infoline. I'm asking for an answer, because these are the most pressing drug problems today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u402	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maciej Miłkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, will answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u403	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Marshal! Thank you very much for the question. A lot of questions were asked here. It's about a whole series of events related to the lack of drugs in pharmacies, in pharmacies generally open, in hospital pharmacies, lack of access to drugs at all. Does the Ministry monitor the situation? Is the Ministry on the subject? Those were your questions. I would like to answer: the system in Poland is that the Ministry of Health contracts, fixes the prices of medicines reimbursed and determines the volume of deliveries with individual applicants, producers. These data are monitored by institutions. The institutions that are involved here are the registration office of medicinal products, the chief pharmaceutical inspector and, of course, the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health supervises access to medicines in Poland by means of many mechanisms regarding the availability of medicines. This situation is supervised by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector within the Ministry of Health. Based on this data, information is, among others. a list of drugs at risk of export that changes every 2 months. When it comes to diabetes medicines that haven't been a very important subject lately, we see different situations. This is mainly about the absence of antidiabetic medicines, long-acting metformin, e.g. Glucophage, mostly XR and Metformax. [[Base - Insulin is missing.]] Metformin and various substitutes for these medicines are very large, so patients have security. The normal, normal Glucophage was to the full extent. I would also like to say that compared to the previous year during the same period, the manufacturer has given more Glucophage to the market. The availability of replacements is great here. So that in this respect we are constantly monitoring the situation, because the situation is still tense. We have greatly increased the scope of drug surveillance. What was recently done was that in April, together with the prosecutor, a very large amendment was prepared with the Ministry of Justice, in which the reverse distribution chain is being validated, exports of drugs that are at risk of export. We are working to make use of this law already in this regard, because one of the elements of lack of availability is the export of drugs which are at risk of lack of availability. We are also analysing the situation on the occasion of further announcements, it is a significant remodeling of the list of drugs at risk, because only exports of medicines on this list are criminal if the intention to export has not been properly notified. Of course, some of the drugs that have been problematic lately aren't on the list. Maybe they'll be there in the next place to sort things out. It is also very important that the media situation causes that there is a significantly higher demand for medicines on the market, and you can see that. One of the relevant wholesalers, Neuca, has recently published data on how pharmacies demand for individual drugs is increasing. If the pharmacy can't implement the prescription, it's ordering more drugs, it's the same wholesaler. I wanted to say that the availability of drugs was very different in previous years. In some areas there was a major problem with anti-coagulants. There's no such thing now. It caused competition. We make sure that more and more drugs are available on the market. You can see that when there is competition, there are far less problems. At least a few medications from a given limit group must be on the list, with several different ranges purchased... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, Polish medicines must also be there and have a very important impact here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u404	Thank you very much, Minister. Additional question - Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u405	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In view of the ever-growing number of people in our country with diabetes, I would like once again to raise the question of the need to increase the budget for the reimbursement of antidiabetic medicines and extend their scope by introducing modern diabetic therapies, with equal access to these therapies for those with type I and type II diabetes, regardless of age. Modern diabetes therapies are not refunded, although they would help to reduce the rising costs of treating diabetes complications. My questions: Could the Ministry change the approach to treating diabetes and see the benefits of modern therapies in the long term and the possibility of avoiding complications in the form of heart attacks or strokes, which are much more expensive? Why doesn't the refund on insulin pumps cover all diabetics or devices? Why do patients up to 26 years of age not have the right to choose a pump model and are forced to wait a long time for the device? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last question: What criterion causes no refund of insulin pumps for patients aged 26 years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u406	Thank you, Member. The answer will be given to Minister Maciej Miłkowski. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u407	Thank you so much for asking. As regards the availability of new generation drugs, several of these drugs have been reported at the Ministry of Health as regards flozin, for which the procedure is initiated. As regards those for which the entire procedure has already ended, it is Jardiance, empagliflozin, for patients in a very defined indication, i.e. a reduced indication of the characteristics of the medicinal product in this regard. Then at the end of ub. Another company applied for a medicine with canagliflozin. Treatment of adult patients from 18 years of age with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus is indicated. And as far as this first drug is concerned, the process is at the post-Economic Commission stage. A positive recommendation was received from the President of the Agency for the assessment of medical technology, subject to a significant reduction in the price. Since the Economic Commission had not obtained a common position with the applicant, it issued a negative assessment and we are now before the decision of the Minister of Health. Another drug, as I said, was directed to price negotiations with the Economic Commission, also received a positive assessment of the president of the agency, subject to a reduction in the price. Two more important medications. At the end of the ub. in December, as regards type 2 diabetes, dapagliflozin in patients treated with metformin. Here, too, a positive recommendation provided that the price is significantly reduced. The proposal is currently being negotiated with the Economic Commission. Another medicine from this year, semaglutide, is type 2 diabetes mellitus in patients who have failed combination therapy with metformin and a sulphonylurea, BMI 35. This medicine applies to a very specific group of patients who have heart disease, NYHA class II or III failure. Currently, negotiations are also being conducted. In this respect, no decision has been taken. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as medical devices are concerned, CGM pumps are used to the full extent for children, as well as for patients up to 26 years of age who are not undergoing treatment. We're currently working on new technologies. As far as children are concerned, a new technology may still be used in this quarter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[All right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u408	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question to the Minister of Health is addressed by Tadeusz Dziuba and Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice. Question on consideration of the introduction in Poland of a national programme to reduce congenital defects by enriching flour with folic acid. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u409	Dear Marshal! The question to the Minister is: Is Poland considering introducing a national programme to reduce defects born by enriching flour with folic acid? Why would you ask that? The decrease in foetal defects is called "facial defects." Nervous tubular, but also heart defects and other defects, such as lip bifida or palate, can be achieved by raising the level of folic acid in women who may become pregnant. Therefore, in about 60 countries around the world, including the United States, Canada and Australia, a legal obligation to enrich flour with folic acid was introduced. The issue is of high social importance, as the two most common consequences of this defect are spina bifida and brainless. It is estimated that every year in Poland there are some 400-500 pregnancies affected by such defects, although this number may be understated. This is why the question is whether in Poland a legal obligation to introduce folic acid into products that are commonly consumed, i.e. flour products, is being considered? That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u410	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Maciej Miłkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u411	Dear Marshal! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this question. The medical problem is very important. The defects of the neural tube are one of the most severe congenital defects, resulting in many fetuses being lost during pregnancy. Some children are born, but with very serious defects, such as brainlessness, hernia and spinal cord, which lead to the death of a child or permanent disability, so that the child must be treated and rehabilitated throughout his life. The question is whether this is anticipated, whether work is being carried out towards the introduction of mandatory, mandatory supplementation, enrichment of flour into folic acid. This is being applied, as you said, in 60 countries of the world, but in Europe no country has yet decided to do so. It should be noted that in this respect very large differentiation is due to different ages of people and compulsory mandatory supplementation of flour. This flour is consumed by all age groups, but those who need it are pregnant women, women who want to get pregnant, who should take folic acid before they become pregnant, which significantly reduces the risk of neurological defects. The problem is with research. What we know is that the current situation is that folic acid is taken by not more than 40% mothers, but also more than half of women of childbearing age in their daily diet do not meet the standard of demand for folic acid. There was a social program, an information program supervised by the Mother and Child Institute and a chief health inspector, but that was a long time ago. The aim of this programme was to strengthen the knowledge of doctors about aspects of preventing birth defects. This project went very hard into consciousness. It is known that this topic is very important, but - as we think - first of all, in order for such a project to be carried out in Poland, it would be necessary to notify European Union law so that all producers have to supplement the flour mandatoryly. Another problem is that this is a very important issue: awareness and to doctors, and to society, to people, and especially to women who plan to become pregnant, that this is very important. So that in this respect we may lean on it strongly, because it concerns approx. Three people out of 10,000. persons. Every year around 115 children are born in Poland. As you said, other people may lose their pregnancy consciously or unconsciously during the first period, because this is a very important defect that may cause the loss of this pregnancy during the first period of pregnancy. So that in this respect, as I said, we do not plan mandatory supplementation of flour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u412	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u413	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The matter is very important, and I would urge the Minister to take a slightly different approach. Namely, it seems that at least part of the flour should be enriched with folic acid. I am aware - here the Minister rightly pointed out - that this flour is consumed by people of different ages. Yes, there are even new publications in which it is said that in the case of the elderly, e.g. with Alzheimer's disease, it's not necessarily a good idea for them to eat folic acid-enriched flour, but it's extremely important for pregnant women or actually before they get pregnant. Look at the social, financial costs, all the other things about those you said, statically on average 115 pregnancies, for example with spinal bifida, with various defects in the neural tube. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's really worth thinking about. Poland can be a pioneer in a situation that is absolutely uncontroversial and, I think, throughout the whole room, would be accepted by the whole parliament with understanding and acceptance. So I urge you at least to invest parts so that some flour is available in a form enriched with folic acid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u414	Thank you very much, sir. And once again, please respond to Minister Maciej Miłkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u415	Of course, the Member here pointed out a second possibility, i.e. not a compulsory possibility of supplementation, but a partial possibility for products to be available on the market, flour also enriched with folic acid. And this possibility is, of course, in Poland. We have a similar situation with salt, which is iodine salt, but we also have non-fertilised salt. The mandatory enrichment of food is currently regulated by the 2010 regulation of the Minister of Health and is mandatory, as I said, iodinating the kitchen salt and enriching the fats for vitamin lubrication A and D. Notwithstanding this, other products may normally be introduced and vitamins, minerals or other substances with nutritional or other physiological effects may be added, taking into account the requirements laid down in the Regulation of the European Parliament of 2006. Therefore, it is possible, of course, such products will most likely be more expensive and this is a normal economic activity, i.e. it depends on the manufacturer. As I said before, an information campaign about this problem it's also a show that it's worth eating green vegetables because they have a lot of nutrients, it's about vegetables like kale, spinach or lettuce. Of course, what I said earlier: rapid diagnosis of pregnancy, precise planning of pregnancy, so that a woman will take folic acid before she becomes pregnant. This involves increasing the scale of information for these people so that as much as possible they fully follow the recommendations of gynecologists, because gynecologists normally prescribe it as standard. I think the best solution is full information, pregnant women are becoming more aware and know that there is such a big problem that there are such consequences. I think the information campaign should be run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u416	Thank you very much, Minister. The question to the Minister for Digitalisation on the Internet for municipal cultural centres was prepared by Jerzy Bielecki and Adam Kałaska from Law and Justice. Please, Mr Jerzy Bielecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u417	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland faces the problem of digital exclusion, which concerns many age groups. This is either a lack of need for access to the Internet or insufficient digital competences of students and teachers, but the development of digital competences determines the emergence and development of sectors of modern economy such as artificial intelligence and the Internet of Things. To improve the situation, we need coordinated action at government level. At the same time, in the Polish social landscape there are thousands of different cultural institutions, such as municipal cultural centres, whose educational potential despite many efforts is not fully exploited. What action is being taken by the Ministry of Digitalization to change this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u418	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Minister Wanda Buk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u419	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As you have noticed, in Poland there are more than 2.5 thousand. municipal centres of culture. This is, of course, a network scattered throughout our country and is located in regions that are vulnerable to particular digital exclusion. Using the potential of municipal cultural centres, which are by nature very closely related to local communities, will effectively implement the programme's objectives, better adapting the offer to the specific needs of the site. We all know very well that those of you who function or have had the opportunity to function in local communities, small communities, that such centres are very often very active and are one of the main meeting places, especially in smaller municipalities, and at the same time they have been very often overlooked with similar actions to date. The Ministry of Digitalization decided to use this potential in the wake of the announcement of President Jarosław Kaczyński in Przydrye in 2017, which pointed to the need for digitalisation. We have decided to prepare a programme for the digitisation of municipal cultural centres. We announced this program in May this year, it has three pillars. The first is to connect all local cultural centres in Poland to broadband Internet. The second is the allocation of PLN 100 million for a cycle of digital skills training. The third is to equip the centres with modern equipment, which will remain there after the completion of the project. In the first stage, i.e. By mid-2020, i.e. 450 local cultural centres will be connected to broadband over the next year and the Ministry of Digitalisation has signed agreements with the first seven telecom operators. Other municipal cultural centres which do not have broadband internet access will be covered as a result of interventions carried out from the Operational Programme of Poland digital. Parallel, as I said, the Ministry of Digital Affairs has prepared a competition to raise digital competences, for which it has allocated PLN 100 million from the Polish digital programme, and as part of this action NGOs will be able to apply for funding in 73 competition areas of our country. Within this programme, the centres will be equipped with appropriate computer equipment, tablets, robots, educational mats and will allow, in particular, underinvested municipal centres of culture, to significantly make their training offer more attractive. In the trainings that I have already mentioned to you, we will educate not only local communities but also the employees of municipal cultural centres so that, after the course of financial training with EU funds, they can pass on the acquired knowledge. Upon completion of the training, employees will continue to receive support in the form of mentoring and up-to-date educational materials. In our view, this is extremely important as this will enable us to provide services on a permanent basis. We want to train children up to the age of 10. This will be more of a basic digital competence. Older people from 10 to 18 years of age will learn more complex competences, among others. programming lessons. We estimate that the training will be covered by 50,000. people in our country in the first stage, because then of course it will escalate. The selection of the competition for the fitting of the GOKs and for the trainings that I have told you about is planned at the end of this year. The competition has already been announced. At this point, applicants are preparing their applications, which will soon be able to evaluate the Digital Poland Project Centre. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u420	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u421	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask who might be the beneficiary of this project. When, especially in Eastern Poland, can the results of these projects occur? In fact, the Minister has told us so much about this programme that it is still difficult to ask questions, but first of all I would ask the Minister to answer who can be the beneficiary of these projects, programmes announced by the Ministry of Digitalization and when they can produce concrete results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u422	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Wanda Buk to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u423	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I answer your question: the direct beneficiaries of the competition that I have told you about, the competition in which we will train and equip municipal cultural centres, are non-governmental organisations that will run the training cycle. Other beneficiaries will naturally be the recipients, i.e. employees of municipal cultural centres and children, who will be trained as part of these activities. To answer your more detailed question, I would like to say, as I have already mentioned, that 450 communal cultural centres are already connected as part of the investments that are underway. The list of these communal cultural centres can be found on the website of the Ministry of Digitalization and on the website of the Project Centre of Digital Poland. As far as the others are concerned, we will be, as I said, plugging them in as part of another intervention. I admit that it is now difficult for me to address a specific region, but I think that we can give this information to the Member in writing calmly. I will answer the question, when to expect and whether to expect in Poland the Eastern cycle of training I was talking about, and the accessories of the GOKs. The final decisions on how many funds will be allocated to a given region and to which beneficiary, which non-governmental organisation, will be found out after the competition has been decided by the Digital Poland Project Centre, which is at the end of this year. It will then be possible to provide specific information on the region concerned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u424	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. The question is asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Mrs Teresa Glenc and Mr Czesław Sobierajski, the Law and Justice Club, on the question of interpretational doubts regarding the rules on the separation of residential premises built with the participation of the National Housing Fund, i.e. Article 2 12 Housing Cooperatives and Art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act on certain forms of housing promotion. The question is addressed to the Minister for Investment and Development. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u425	Minister! Apartments built in the 1970s and later with the participation of the National Housing Fund in the form of a loan can for some time be separately owned. This is covered by the Housing Cooperatives Act, specifically Article. 12, which even provides for what the amount of part of the loan surrendered will be paid back, namely that it will be made available to the Payment Fund. From my knowledge, some co-operatives have benefited from these provisions, of course with some problems, because PKO BP simply demanded huge amounts for the whole credit settlement procedure. However, under our pressure in previous terms, twice these operating amounts collected by the bank, sometimes up to several thousand zlotys from the application, were reduced. Not much, there was another suggestion from BGK not to submit individual applications, so that cooperatives would occur collectively for groups of members of the cooperative. Some of them benefit from such aid and separate the premises which were created with the participation of loans from KFM for groups of members of the cooperative. Meanwhile, there is a new problem. One of the cooperatives in Puławy, in response to the request of the person interested in the separation of the premises, gives this - the current one, from June this year - answer: We kindly inform you that the laws on housing cooperatives, i.e. are applicable to the acquisition of property occupied by you. of 13 April 2018 - I mentioned this - specifically Article. 12, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and certain forms of housing promotion. In view of the divergence in the wording of the provisions laid down, there is a risk that the permanent accounting court may refuse to separate the premises. In other words - I am finishing - the cooperative speaks to the person concerned: we can conclude a notarial act, but the court will not establish a perpetual book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u426	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr. Arthur Soboń to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u427	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! The Act of 19 August 2011 amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and the Housing Cooperatives Act, which entered into force on 11 October 2011, introduced the possibility of separating into the property of residential premises built for rent using a loan granted by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego to social construction companies and housing cooperatives on the basis of applications submitted until 30 September 2009. At the same time, that law repealed paragraph. Article 2 12 Act of 15 December 2000 on housing cooperatives, which contained a ban on the separation of cooperative premises built from the National Housing Fund. Consequently, since 11 October 2011, the acquisition of the property of the building with the participation of the loan granted by BGK from the funds of KFM by a member with the right to co-operative tenants is carried out on a general basis, as stated by the Member, in Article. 12 Housing Cooperatives Act. The possibility of undertaking activities related to the sale of cooperative housing built from KFM funds is demonstrated by the implementation of this procedure by housing cooperatives, which applied in BGK to establish the amount of debt for the separate dwelling. In total, 1295 such applications were received by BGK, 1176 of which were isolated. On the other hand, the provision of the article. 15e paragraph. 2 The Act on certain forms of housing promotion introduces a ban on transformations only in respect of dwellings built in the framework of the government's housing promotion programme, i.e. within the framework of the so-called. reverse financing. There's no way to isolate the premises. [[This only applies to this group?]] Yeah, just this group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u428	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you an additional question from Mrs Teresa Glenc. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u429	Minister! Please confirm or deny: Will this divergence of rules be removed in any way? After the conclusion of a notarial act and the separation of a residential establishment financed by the National Housing Fund, can the department of perpetual books refuse to enter the ownership of such an establishment in the perpetual book? Or is it just about a group of people? I'd like a precise answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u430	I ask Minister Arthur Sobonia to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u431	It is always possible to look at these rules and to analyse them, but in our opinion there is no impureness or incoherence here, because different modes concern different sources of funding. We therefore have a clear situation: if we have a source of feedback, then, according to these new rules, it is not possible to separate the premises, but in previous situations it is possible. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] This is 2015, just exactly... This, Commissioner, I will say exactly from which day in 2015.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u432	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 55 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the drug crisis in Poland will be considered, which was presented by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Michał Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, health care problems are not only in Poland. They are all over the world and all over the world, not only in Poland, politicians - government politicians, opposition politicians - tend to play health issues to say: we do better, you didn't do something, you do better now, we do better. The issue of health is so important that it is hard to be surprised that it in every country, I will emphasize, triggers emotions. I always have a big... As a person who has been personally affected in some way in recent years by health problems, I realise how easy it is to play human emotions, how dangerous it is, and how it can turn against all those who would try to lead this kind of action. Therefore, our question is formulated with a minimum political context. This context cannot be avoided, for example, because one of the biggest reforms, a little unnoticed today, one of the biggest major projects that you have taken over, was the reform of the pharmaceutical market. I would like to remind you that this was accompanied by controversy in your camp. The case was so controversial that the work was delayed, there were talks, there were various charges. You took 100% responsibility for the shape of the pharmaceutical market in Poland today. And the effect - and that's why our question - is that in your usually quite good, though awkward propaganda something started to fail. Because on the one hand you say, contrary to the personal experience of specific people, including the person who stands on this stand, that there is no problem with medicines, while thousands of Poles daily see that these problems are. But on the other hand, you say you're running a hotline on this issue. This is certain, however, I would say, a logical inconsistency, because how to run a hotline in a case that allegedly doesn't exist. And yet it should be pointed out behind the Chief Pharmacy Chamber that today there is a shortage in pharmacy - these are the data of the Chief Pharmacy Chamber - diabetes medicines, hypertension, thyroid diseases, asthma and allergies. As the Chief Pharmacy Chamber points out, this problem initially concerned only expensive, original medicines, but day by day the situation is getting worse. Honourable Minister! Dear Government Majority! I think it's worth it now that we learn more than just the way out of this crisis... I am convinced that every decent Member, including the opposition, will simply support you in this, because the issue often simply concerns specific human dramas, because I really know from my own experience, which means fear that there will be no cure that is needed. Just fear. But I would also like and think that many of us, citizens of the Republic of Poland, deserve to know the reasons why this chaos in the pharmaceutical market is, and I will repeat this - in a situation where you took full responsibility for this market, for its new shape. On this basis, as unfortunately every revolutionary power to destroy what was, and then we will see. And in this case, we see how bad the demolition method is. Our children are convinced of this in education reform, and today all sick people who need medicine and cannot get it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u434	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Maciej Miłkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u435	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Thank you very much for this information, because the subject is very important, very important and it is not so that it is swept under the carpet, because the availability of medicine is very important and concerns every Pole. Everyone's taking a drug. So that's the basic element. I wanted to thank you very warmly at first. I also wanted to say what I have already said many times, that we do not see the drug crisis in Poland as a systemic lack of drugs in individual... [[But we can see, Minister, and the patients can see.]] I understand you can see. I know you can see. [[But don't yell.]] I don't know if you always had every drug four or five years ago, i.e. Maybe not this one. [[Always.]] As a rule, there are 16 thousand in Poland. medicines. The pharmacy has an area of approx. 80 and 100 m2. There's no way the pharmacy has every drug in the state. There's no way it's 100%. drugs, therefore, drugstores were very often active on the basis that if there was no drug, the pharmacy ordered it. That's what I was gonna say. [[But this is another matter.]] As far as the situation on pharmaceutical law is concerned, I would also like to say that pharmaceutical law It's still the way it's been so far. We didn't change it. This is a very good law in terms of negotiating drug prices. I wanted to say what is most important is that from the very beginning we have been working very closely with all the parties involved. So the basic element is the producers with whom we have signed contracts for reimbursement of medicines. Normally we meet, negotiate, extend for 2, 3 years or 5 years and constantly monitor the supply of drugs that companies have committed to deliver to the Polish market. And this information is monitored by the relevant institutions, the Ministry of Health and the National Health Fund. We talk to companies and in case of any problems they report this information about the temporary cessation, the temporary lack of availability of medicines to the Office for Registration of Medicinal Products and also propose an exit, i.e. what you can possibly do. We're analyzing these situations if the drug has substitutes or if the drug doesn't have substitutes. We have such situations that applicants, producers after the end of the 2-year period do not apply for continuation. Sometimes, like I said, medications have equivalents, sometimes they don't. We always agree on what we can do next, as you remember, there was a global situation with the contamination of valsartan, then we always consult with national consultants and determine how patients should change therapy - always under medical supervision. The situation of lack of availability of medicines is very unfavourable, because this, of course, often results in an increased need to visit a doctor. In this respect, in order to monitor the availability market, as I said, we meet with the applicants, with the producers, because we see that only through the current delivery mechanism of medicines can this situation be monitored. The second element is the entire wholesale and retail trading system in Poland. Here, too, we see that we still have various organizational problems. We see that manufacturers do not always deliver drugs to all wholesalers, although they are obliged. We see the problem that manufacturers do not cooperate with all pharmacies and therefore the problems with availability are considerable. These drugstores, which have more purchasing power, more turnover, have more opportunities, have more supplies, we see this from the data that we have in the integrated system for monitoring the marketing of medicinal products. In general, the situation is changing very strongly this year, because we have more and more information about all data, all transactions in the health care system, on-line we have all transactions with pharmacies, we see this. We have diagnosed dozens of cases of drugs whose quantities have decreased, the turnover has decreased in the last 3 months. We looked at whether there were exact equivalents in this area or whether other drugs had increased. There are cases that this is exactly 1 to 1, we're analyzing this. We work very closely with the Centre for Information Systems for Health Protection and with the National Health Fund. The Minister has set up a team that has worked in full scope for a long time, i.e. cooperation between the Ministry of Health and subordinate institutions, the URPL and the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspectorate, the National Health Fund, which has an increasingly extensive analytical part and is able to draw various kinds of conclusions very quickly. We also invited the national institutions, i.e. the Supreme Pharmacy Chamber, which indicated that some medicines are missing, and the General Medical Chamber, which has a very important influence in this area, to know exactly what is happening. Besides, as we talk to drug producers, if they plan any changes in the raw material composition, because it happens often, the product does not change, the EAN code is the same, but some auxiliary substance changes or possibly packaging, manufacturers inform doctors that it will happen. We are working to make this much stronger when it comes to patient information, for doctors, to strengthen information for the entire market, so that this information is available to the public. This is the main objective, in addition to monitoring and preventing the lack of medicines, i.e. preventive action, not post-factum. Now this is happening thanks to the computerization of the health system, the computerization of the entire pharmacy turnover. Thanks to this informationization, I hope, to a much less extent will be used the amendment of the law strengthening, penalizing the reverse distribution chain, i.e. export of drugs abroad, because here, of course, we still see big problems. We have producers who see that they sell more products on the Polish market than... As much as is in line with demand, but they see that fewer products are sold. Many products are sold exclusively as a refunded product, practically 100% As a result of what the National Health Fund presents, producers see that some products are sold abroad. The purpose of our negotiations is to make this price special for Poland. Of course, I must say that in many areas these prices are not the lowest, as some producers believe. We see that these prices are very different. Sometimes you can and by 50% lower the price. The producers themselves want this, the last example of innovative drugs, Adalimumab, where after 5 months the price dropped by 85%. I hope that an increasing group of patients will be treated with these very effective medicines that have been world leaders. Same thing... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Trastuzumab Mabthera. So you can see that there is a possibility of increasing the availability of medicines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u436	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask you another question, please? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. As first Member, Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u437	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think it is very good that today we are discussing this issue, and it is good that we discussed this at the meeting of the panel convened under the Rule. 152 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of drugs or possibly a temporary lack of medicines, their availability, has at least two aspects. One is due to the fact that there are fewer active substances on the market due to the closure of production in some Asian countries. This, of course, had a negative impact on the production already carried out by various pharmaceutical companies. And since in Poland these medicines are relatively cheaper and in Poland relatively little is produced, it caused that, of course, these countries filled the gap in their own homes and only later these drugs came to the Polish market. And that is undoubtedly one aspect, one can say, global or at least pan-European. But there is also the second issue - the issue of illegal drug exports, with different mechanisms, including the reversed distribution chain. And it's a good thing we're talking about this, and it's a good thing we're going back to the past, because it's worth telling you what kind of mechanisms we're talking about here. Well, ladies and gentlemen, during the reign of the Civic Platform and the PSL, in addition to the fact that the drug mafia was poorly validated, but also at the request of the pharmaceutical wholesalers, two high officials of the Ministry of Health issued an opinion, entirely from a hat, to a pharmaceutical wholesaler - it is, ladies and gentlemen, in writing - that in the case of the export of drugs abroad, a 5% margin is not valid. And here we are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] one of the answers, how is it possible that these drugs could have gone away, except for this illegal trade...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u438	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u439	...in this way, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u440	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u441	It's worth remembering. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u442	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u443	Thank you very much. [[The Hula Mafia...]] The drug mafia hula, and four years ago, PiS took over the power and somehow the effect of fighting and changing the rules... [[The piss brought in the punishment... and you didn't do anything.]] ...Sir, you can't see. I am pleased that today there is a Minister in the Chamber who deals with drug policy, and that at least he answers, because at the meeting of the Health Committee yesterday - amazing and questionable - someone else answered questions. Doesn't mean that the change in the minister answering questions gave us something new. Of course, neither yesterday nor today have we heard what are the reliable results of the analysis by the Ministry, which drugs and why they were not present on the market and were not available to patients. We have not heard what the Ministry has done over the past few months, for example, in the event of an announcement of problems with active substances from Asia. We didn't hear exactly what the trouble was about. And we haven't heard why the resort every day e.g. He deleted medications from the reimbursement list, which aggravated the entire problem of drug availability. Today, I expected the Minister to give me the information I had promised at the committee meeting, which concerns the consequences of the legislation - Pharmaceutical Law and the Refund Act - the Ministry of Health used to address those who did not deliver to the wholesalers and pharmacies active substances - medicines for patients, those medicines that were missing. Where do you have those documents I was supposed to receive, Minister? They're gone. I asked for a list of drugs that had already gone to the warehouse because we're still dealing with success propaganda: it's not true that there's a shortage of drugs, it's not true that patients don't have them, it's an imaginary case. It's just weird that patients go from pharmacy to pharmacy, even when they're 80, or they call the hotline and find out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the drug is 50 km or 300 km away. Minister, I ask you to answer the questions I asked at the committee meeting and to which you have not answered. And that's what I'm asking. I'd like your papers, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u444	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u445	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Two short questions. Some time ago, the so-called "European Union" was introduced in the countries of the European Union. an anti-counterfeiting directive, which imposed various types of obligations on different pharmaceutical market participants, including: increased the cost of manufacturing drugs, but also slowed down the production of medicines. In view of the above, the following question: Has this somehow affected this crisis, which is, of course, a global one, is not related only to our Polish pharmaceutical market? This is the first case. The availability of medicines makes it easier to refund medicines. So the second question: Could you remind us of the expenditure from the state budget, from public funds in Poland for the reimbursement of medicines? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u446	Thank you, sir. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Minister didn't explain anything, nothing at all, you said, Minister, 10 minutes about nothing. On the other hand, Mr Latos explained to us: four years rule by law and justice, and the drug crisis is Tusk's fault. Sir, do you hear yourself? You've been in charge for four years. This is the last session of the Sejm. [[The voice from the room: Yes, it is.]] [[You've destroyed the factories, you've sold the drug factories.]] You've been in charge for four years and you haven't been able to prepare a health system to protect yourself from a drug crisis? [[Voice from the room: What have you done?]] It can't be like this. 4 years. [[But weak, weak, ooh...]] The minister's job... Too bad you're hiding, I understand you're embarrassed, but you'd better look at the way you talk, Minister. The task of the Minister of Health is to organise a health system in such a way as to protect the life and health of Poles. And you're supposed to anticipate possible crises. It cannot be that the problems of any producer, regardless, in China or on the moon, cause that Polish patients do not have drugs. And this is not a global crisis, sir. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] We do not read anywhere on portals that there are no patients in other European countries... [[It's in France.]] ...but we read everywhere that Poles do not have access to drugs. [[You have no knowledge.]] The lack of medication results from the savings you make on Poles and patients, not from what's in China. [[Applause]] Because all other countries could protect themselves from it, only Poland ruled by the PiS could not protect itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u448	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u449	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We've already seen the Minister. This thread has already appeared in the discussion, namely the theme of the causes, some of which have been discussed here. Some of the causes, problems with access to medicines on the Polish market are due to problems outside Poland. I would ask the Minister to provide a broader comparative information, as is the case in other European countries, because, as you can see, there are different views on this subject. However, is this situation in Poland not only a Polish situation, or is this also a European situation? Please provide comparative information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u450	Thank you. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of drug exports has already been known since 2012. Until 2016, practically nothing has been done to stop this operation. [[Two years, nothing. For two years of PiS rule, nothing.]] [[4 years.]] Nothing was done, only that the voivodship sanitary inspectors were obliged to control wholesalers, pharmacies, etc., which was unrealistic, because in their area of activity they had dozens of such entities and it was known that they were not able to control it. So I have a question: What did the Government of Law and Justice - because there are accusations - do to control this crime? [[Yeah, nothing.]] I know that there have been amendments to the Road Goods Transport Act, then the amendment of the Rail Transport Act sealing this road, this flow of discharge, also introduced sanctions, perhaps late, possibly. Therefore, I ask what is the scale of exports of medicines at the moment, whether they have decreased or not, whether we have mastered this export stream in any way. And the second question, because again there are accusations that we do not spend enough on medicines, we save on Poles. If the Minister would be able to say, I would like to ask for information as in the last years of our governments and previous years, the amounts spent on the reimbursement of medicines have evolved. Because such knowledge is simply objective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u452	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u453	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The situation is extremely serious, and it is already established that you missed a certain moment when this crisis started because the situation was growing dramatically. In April there were about 280 items missing in the list of medicines, at the end of June there were already over 300 medicines missing, and at the moment this is over 500 items. There will be panic in a moment, because patients are already driving around Poland looking for drugs. The worst is the situation with medicines for thyroid disorders, hypertension, diabetes, asthma and allergies. You know the wholesalers were expecting 888,000. Euthyrox packaging? Do you know how long it took to get to the warehouse? Today's press says it's only 11,000. What does that mean? That means over $850,000. The packaging didn't arrive, which means you're about to have chaos and a situation that you're not going to be able to handle, and this ministry is responsible for this situation, and it's already been mentioned. This is where the system in which the state, the government, the health department pressure and the producers, and the wholesalers. You're the ones dictating prices. [[Applause]] And you're the ones who made it look like there's no drug contracts that save lives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u454	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the situation regarding thyroid disease medications - and the question was about this information - especially because many people have thyroid disease, including my husband in my family. As it happens, the medications he needs are available in the pharmacy, but I want to ask you about the availability of the most common medicine used in thyroid diseases, mentioned just now, namely Euthyrox. Is it really what my previous speaker said? What is the current situation with regard to the availability of this medicine? Did the Ministry take - if it is true, because I do not know, therefore I ask - any action in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u456	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u457	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fact that Minister Szumowski isn't here today is also a sign that the minister just chickened out. He should be here to provide all the Poles who walk away because they have a prescription, but they can't deliver a drug that saves their lives. They would like to know something concrete, Minister, and there was nothing concrete here today that could say about the key issue, about the health safety of Poles. Your supervisor, Jarosław Kaczyński, speaks of imposibilism of power. That's exactly what you're showing me. [[Applause]] You show that you have no influence, you have no idea how to protect Poles when it comes to drug safety. Where's the prevention? You really should thank the free media for making this issue public because the Ministry of Health wouldn't know it. Indeed, when we look at the regime's television, everything is fine, but people go to pharmacies every day, they ask. There's no drugs. It's time to really end this. What was the infoline? The hotline was a quickly prepared action. But to get through there? There was a big problem to call. And when someone called, he got the information: there are no drugs in Poznań, please go to Rzeszow. That's what the helpline was for. Minister, this is not the way to act. You're saying there's no cure because it's not made in China. It is time to actually bet on the Polish pharmaceutical industry, change politics. [[You sold out. You sold it for pennies.]] You've had four years to do this. You cannot do this, change the refund policy in such a way that not only the price dictates the conditions, but that we promote our Polish producers. You don't do that. My question: Will the Minister have the courage to resign? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u458	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u459	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem of lack of medicines concerns the whole of Europe and has not occurred since today. [[Yeah, feel it's great. Doctors, tell them to leave the country.]] Even France loudly says that active substances for the production of medicines must be produced in the European Union, because this problem has arisen as a result of the closure of production centres in the Asian countries, as was mentioned. Law and Justice takes this situation very seriously and cares very much for the safety of Poles. The pharmacy is talking about a drug crisis. Different numbers of missing drugs are dropping: 500, 300. And here I have a question for the Minister: Why are these two versions given? And at the moment, this accessibility limitation may not be that serious, because the pharmacists call the wholesalers, the others, somehow these situations and problems solve. When did the problem with the availability of drugs really start, Minister? Wasn't it created after 2012, when the Civic Platform introduced a refund bill? Are there, and if there are, what are, currently sanctions for illegal export of drugs from Poland? [[That's a good question.]] Would it be worth wondering whether this very important debate for the whole of Europe should not be discussed in the European Commission? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u460	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u461	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! As bad as it is now, it hasn't been, ladies and gentlemen, ever. So that a sick person bounces off a pharmacy so that there's a hotline where, if he calls, you hear the lady's answer, who's looking for a name. My first question, Minister: Who sits down, works on the hotline? How are these people educated? And what does that person say? One of Szczecin's reporters called and asked about Euthyrox. She heard that she had it to buy diagonally from Poland, that of course she was in the pharmacy. He was probably also in pharmacies somewhere closer, I think, unless he was actually no longer in Poland. There are very important medications missing. The parents of children who want to vaccinate these children with hepatitis A, HPV, rabies, against meningococcal meningitis are reflected from the door. There are vaccinations for which there are booster vaccines, such as HPV. At the right time, this child needs to be vaccinated. At the moment, a postcard was hung on the door of the pharmacy in Bydgoszcz, that drugs would be available, specifically HPV, only in January. Minister! There's a shortage of medication for a lot of diseases, which you've been talking about yourself. It's about hypertension, thyroid disease, asthma, allergies, diabetes. Oncological agents are also beginning to be missing, particularly hydroxycarbamide in chronic myeloid leukaemia. [[This is terrible, Minister.]] It can't be like this. I think you'll agree with me. [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: No, it is our fault.]] Parents of children, adults, elderly people have no chance of going to the Czech Republic or Germany to buy a medicine. They don't have the strength or the chance to run from one pharmacy to another. You really need horse health to get sick. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, you can buy drugs and raw materials from your own hands to make up for this lack. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Just like the VIP planes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u462	Thank you. Mrs Maria Nowak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u463	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! From year to year, the access of seniors to medicinal products thanks to the 75+ program is improving. [[That's a lie.]] Seniors are very pleased with this program, especially the fact that the Minister of Health systematically extended the list of diseases for which the seniors have free medicines. [[It's great. It's great.]] Also in its opinion of April this year. the 75+ free medicines scheme states that there is a sixfold increase in the contribution of free medicines to older people in the elderly to their free medicines. I in my own environment - I'm a senior myself - do not hear such a tragic response, which here, in this room, is coming from the opposition. Hence my question: Does the situation that is currently taking place in the drug market have any impact on the implementation of the Is it really necessary to fear a change in the situation that is today? And a brief second question: Will the extension of what we have discussed recently, i.e. the e-recipe project, make it worse or improve the functioning of the It's about the availability of the 75+ programme for seniors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u464	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u465	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The drug crisis didn't come from day to day. We had our first signals in April. [[As of 2012]] I'd like to ask you about the service that should monitor this situation. [[It doesn't work, it doesn't work.]] [[It's working, it's working.]] [[Listen up.]] I'd like to ask you about the State Pharmaceutical Inspection. [[Applause]] Isn't this the situation precisely due to the internal situation and condition of this inspection - it's likely that we have such signals - and the level of wages and size of staff? Would the Minister like to address this problem? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's like veterinary.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u466	Thank you. I would very much ask you not to shout in the courtroom. Please, Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Michael Szczerba - there is no one. Mr Michał Duszek - is not here. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The colon cancer sufferers have been appealing to parliamentarians for two years, as well as to the Minister of Health and stress in their appeal that they want to live longer. They ask in their writings that the Minister of Health should have the courage to look them in the eye and tell them how long they must wait so that in Poland, where they work and pay taxes, they can continue to heal and have a chance to live. For nearly two years, patient organisations have been calling on the Minister of Health to have access to treatment for colon cancer in the third and fourth lines that are currently not reimbursed. In most European countries, line III and line IV are refunded - such treatment is refunded in Hungary, Slovakia, Lithuania, Estonia, really, even in Turkey. Why are we, Poland, not interested in saving these people? Nearly 33 people die of colon cancer a day. On a yearly basis, it is over 12,000. People. How can we be idly and completely heartless about this situation, not react in any way, not try to make it possible to treat this disease? Patients clearly indicate that modern methods of treating colon cancer in the III and IV lines are already available throughout Europe, only not in Poland. Minister! How long will the colon cancer patients have to wait to be able to heal further in line III and IV? This treatment is not available for patients today. They want to live. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u468	Thank you, Member. Mrs Anna Krupka. There is no Member. There's a Member, I'm sorry, I haven't seen you. Excuse me. [[It takes a lot of nerve to make a speech like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Will the current rules and measures taken recently by the Ministry of Health effectively prevent illegal drug exports? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u470	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u471	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the lack of American Sinemet CR 200/50. As an MEP on 8 July 2019, I submitted a written interpellation No. 32509 on this matter. I still haven't gotten an answer today. I've filed an interpellation on behalf of over 100,000. The sick, also on their own behalf, because this disease, this papal disease, has also touched me. As far as I know, Mrs Butterwska from the PiS has also submitted a discussion on the same matter much earlier. As I know, she hasn't received an answer either. This medicine has a specific formulation: 200 mg levodopa and 50 mg carbidopa. It is presented as tablets with a specific way of release. He's refunded, and there's no substitute, which I'd like to draw attention to. The lack of this medicine is a huge problem. This makes it necessary to change the treatment, which accelerates the development of this disease. The drug was due back in June - this is what you promised Deputy Minister Maciej Miłkowski. MSD Polska, a distribution company, claims that there is no chance. The Ministry of Health, the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspectorate, and the drug registration office with the drug manufacturer, writes about the difficulties in the cooperation of the Ministry of Health. What does that mean? Minister! Officials calm down that there are substitutes, etc. It was visible in this room. I feel like picking up a desk out of anger when I hear something like this. Minister! I don't wish that on you, but if you hadn't had a drug like this, you'd be smearing it at night and barefooting it to get this drug... [[America.]] ...and there wouldn't be any stories related to the fact that there are obstacles. [[You can bring in a plane for 2 billion.]] It affects me personally. I don't wish that on anyone, and I know what I'm talking about. In other fields of activity, you show such a genius, and here you just knock. [[Oh, come on.]] Minister! This road, ours, people with Parkinson's disease and neurodegenerative diseases, is the cross road with Golgotha. I repeat, at night and barefoot, you'd go to get it done to ease your suffering, because the pain is blowing your head off and other things are happening. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u472	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u473	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! There are several reasons that have already sounded here and have been pointed out as the source of the current crisis, because we are talking about it. There's a drug crisis. There are no drugs - no one has actually said that. [[Marshal Karczewski denied it. Marshal Karczewski said he wasn't.]] You were trying to suggest that we didn't want to talk about it or see it. We can see that. [[You were four years old.]] There are two main causes. The first reason is a violent, very rapid liquidation in China of not one but many factories producing active substances. This has contributed to the rapid collapse of the entire European market. Have a look at this... [[We read with understanding.]] [[We read, we read.]] ...what the French say about it today. They call on the European Commission to take action at European level in connection with the decommissioning of these factories. The second element is, of course, illegal drug export by the drug mafia, and that is what we are fighting against. [[4 years.]] We're tightening up the rules, not like the country that you've allowed, and so to speak, you've reduced penalties. [[That's not true, that's not true.]] Another thing that apothecaries point to: some medicines are missing because manufacturers regulate the delivery of these drugs to individual pharmacies, i.e. choose who they want to work with and who they don't want to work with, which is, of course, against the rules. Therefore, I have a question: does the Ministry see any possibility of cooperation in this matter with the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not just with the chief health inspector, but with this institution? And I'd like to ask you about the price of drugs. How are prices of medicines in Poland and prices of medicines in Europe? Is it true that we have one of the lowest drug prices in Europe? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: A major change.]] [[Mrs Masłowska knows exactly what is in this situation. She knows well, and the minister's getting lazy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u474	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Club Kukiz 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u475	Mrs. Marshal! [[If you hadn't destroyed so many factories in Poland...]] [[What?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u476	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm asking you to calm down. [[Nobody's shutting down any factories.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Now Mrs. Barbara Chrobak speaks. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u477	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Do you know that there is such a practice, that there are pharmacy companies with pharmacy in Poland and abroad, which, using various mechanisms, transfer drugs to their drugstores abroad and not in Poland? Isn't there a crime going on here, and shouldn't the prosecution be interested in this situation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u478	Thank you very much, Member. Since Mr Michał Kaminski is not here, I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Maciej Miłkowski to answer questions and conclusions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u479	Thank you very much for all these questions. They are all very important, very good, so that I will try to answer them one at a time according to what you expect. As far as Mr Latos' question is concerned, in principle, medicines are produced in Poland, which are non-innovative medicines, which are not protected by patents. We have a generic and reproductive industry and therefore in Poland, as far as all sales are concerned, the majority, the significant value of the refund applies to foreign medicines. Polish medicines are part of the market for generic medicines. We can support the Polish industry only and only in terms of these medicines, because we are unable to produce new molecules, new, innovative medicines. This is very expensive technology. [[We have a budget surplus.]] We can't. The first, the most expensive companies in the world are drug companies, they have the highest profits. We don't have any companies that are world champions. We can't buy them, like Pfizer, Roche, we can't. They have a budget similar to the Polish budget, so... We sold, gave free drugs, our companies, gave away 16 factories for free. [[Applause]] We were the biggest entrepreneur in RWPG, the biggest drug producer, but someone - I don't know, Freedom Union, I don't know who it was - sold all the... [[Voice from the room: SLD.]] [[Voice from the hall: What nonsense are you talking about?]] No, it's stupid. Practically all Polish companies were sold, I do not know exactly what money... [[If you don't know, don't talk.]] ...but I'm sure it's priceless. So... [[But you don't know why?]] I don't know why. [[Voice from the hall: If you don't know, don't talk.]] [[Sometimes it's better to keep quiet than to talk stupid.]] Good. So I'm just saying that the state is proposing to buy back the biggest champions, the world's largest companies, with a profitability of 20%. They have more profitability than most Polish hospitals. I want you to know that this profitability really is much higher and that they have the opportunity to lower prices. We're trying to negotiate prices. However, you think, and you find here that you can buy more expensive, that we can afford it, Poland can afford it. [[Is that a stand or a stand?]] I would like to say that in Poland we have a much lower GDP per citizen than other countries have. If we consider GDP per citizen and health expenditure, we should have several cheaper medicines. We pay very often higher prices. [[You mean Poland in ruins?]] Our main counterpart in the negotiating committee is the United Kingdom, and we would like to have prices like those in the United Kingdom. [[After four years.]] Under no circumstances do companies agree to this, so that we actually have substantially higher drug prices than in the UK. [[For monuments, the skyscrapers are money, and there's no medicine. What kind of nonsense are you talking about?]] All I'm saying is that innovative medicines are very often more expensive than medicines in many other countries. We try, but it doesn't always work. I have to tell you, the companies are still... [[We know how you negotiate.]] We are negotiating very well, Commissioner. [[That's why he doesn't have custody.]] The Commission is still largely... [[They're about to use a double enema.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u480	I'm asking you to calm down. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: He drew attention to the interpretation that allowed the sale of medicines. [[4 years.]] [[Four years is less than eight years. Math.]] Yeah, but I was just about to say that this interpretation was sustained by the D.A.'s office, by the service. [[The voice from the room: But we didn't have a problem, it's you who have a problem.]] We're wondering if we can possibly turn this into a law. But we went the other way. We changed the bill and changed it in terms of penalising foreign exports. Exactly the opposite of what's been going on so far... [[Didn't the D.A.'s office change the state?]] ... since the law has changed since 2015 - no penalties. Those who do this can't go to prison can only get some minor administrative penalties. This does not deter anyone, therefore the operation has flourished very strongly, in particular since 2015. [[4 years. 4 years.]] But we finally realized it. We've done it. The bill has been passed and is in force. Now there are far higher penalties, so the prosecution will be able to press charges. I know that cases are currently being investigated at the D.A.'s office and other cases are being handled. And they will be realized. What we're talking about, what we're thinking about right now, is another drug issue. We see what is the problem, what can include drug exports when it comes to specific substances. We will be wondering whether or not to include certain medicines on the list of medicines refunded at risk of export, and others not to be deleted from this list, because perhaps it is no longer necessary. There used to be a problem with low-pulmonary heparin. This is a life-saving drug. I've seen patients walk away from the window and there's always been a problem with getting this medicine. It was the main problem, you couldn't get that drug. Because the distribution chain was reversed, it was always missing. It was the biggest problem for apothecaries: no possibility. Of course, then an institution was created to scan recipes, provide information so that you can get the goods for specific prescriptions. That was the situation. Of course, there is still such a situation, and we still see problems. Recently, we have talked very strongly with one of the producers about the fact that such a situation is not tolerated in Poland. This producer changed its decision and completely withdrew from it. We have a few more producers... [[Minister, I've been sick for 20 years and things like this haven't been the way they are today. This is a disaster.]] I'm asking you to stop your emotions. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Okay, I'm sorry. I'll continue. Mrs Radziszewska asked about the consequences for companies that did not provide medicines. Some medicines have many substitutes under the drug programs and now you will be able to apply possible penalties. The problem is that we can only apply penalties if the patient has no alternative, no access to drugs, and in practically any case there is a different solution... [[That's not true.]] ...and it's gonna be hard for companies to prove that the patient didn't have any replacements. So we're gonna talk about it. You listed specific medicines here, e.g. Sinemet. The manufacturer promised us that the product would return to the market, and now we have learned that it will most likely not be at all. The manufacturer will ask you to reduce the presence of this medicine on the market. This is, as you said, a two-component drug. We talked about this and agreed with the consultant to use replacements, i.e. Two single medicines. This is often the case. [[He won't be in Poland at all?]] Probably won't be. The producer has officially informed us. [[Voice from the room: And in Germany there is.]] Maybe he was just a little while ago. [[He's in Hungary.]] [[How do they do that?]] I do not know whether it will be in September 2019 or in 2020. You know the current situation. We don't officially know yet. The producer has officially informed us that the drug will most likely still be there, but we do not officially know that yet. So I'm saying that we had assurances that this drug would be, and most likely it wouldn't be. [[You said you'd be here in June.]] [[But it won't.]] The drugs are different. There is a Polish producer Teva from Krakow, who also informed that he has problems with the availability of Gabitril for six months. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, this drug... [[I'll go to Berlin and check it out.]] Okay, check it out. I don't know exactly if Sinemet's still in storage. We have this information, but if the producer says he's not gonna deliver, it's probably gonna be a problem, because we're not gonna be able to... Poland is not a producer, Poland only buys medicines. If the manufacturer has problems with the entire delivery, then we, and not just us, have a global problem. [[A 40-million-dollar nation. Lord, have mercy.]] I understand a 40-million-dollar... Not all products are refunded, not all products will be refunded. No country refundes all medicines, no country is able to afford that all medicines are refunded, Poland also, the same... [[Hungarians can, Germans can.]] What you were talking about: the fourth line of colon treatment - a completely negative assessment of the Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Tarification. There are institutions that are set up to analyse whether the drug is effective or whether it is worth doing so from public funds. I understand that in some countries it is refunded. [[All over Europe.]] I know that in some countries, even less wealthy countries, because Romania sometimes... [[Voice from the room: Greece]] Greece. [[Hungarians are doing fine.]] These countries are doing better. I see. Greece is almost bankrupt, with very high drug prices. Everything can be sold there. There owners of pharmaceutical companies they can really earn big assets, not necessarily in Poland. There is a 40 million-dollar nation in Poland, and we work very hard to make these margins not so high. The point is to save people, because for us, patients are important and we want this availability to be greater in terms of many drug technologies as well. Come closer, Minister, to the end of your speech. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: As far as the 75+ programme is concerned, it is currently practically available. [[Minister, we're about to die.]] One more thing. I want you to see that despite the total drug crisis, the turnover in the National Fund is there. I don't know why, if it's the National Health Fund that's paying off drugs, i.e. I don't know what he's paying back, whether it's crime or drugstores selling drugs... [[It's prison to put them in jail when there are crimes.]] I'm just saying that if there's a refund, it's right, that means that these drugs are actually sold. Transactions are carried out and medicines are passed on to patients. Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Minister, I think it's time to end, resign.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I beg you to remain calm, because indeed the Minister's position is terrifying. Please, by correcting Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u481	Thank you very much. Just a little bit. I have to tell you, Minister, the voice actually picks up how you listen, because it's because there's no medication, but some drugs are selling, and the refund costs are still rising, and patients go from pharmacy to pharmacy and they don't have drugs. Minister! I asked at the committee meeting, and now I asked about the legal consequences for companies that signed the refund agreement. According to the Pharmaceutical Law Act, if you have not received any consequences under the Refund Act, you have not started this either when there were first symptoms that may be a shortage of medicines on the market and availability may be less. I understand that you weren't drawing any consequences, so I didn't get any information about who, what consequences, or what penalties were imposed. I was appalled by what you said that you didn't change the interpretation of the drug export law on this margin, but the point is that it might be higher when you export drugs. You didn't change that because of the D.A.'s decision and because of the task force's decision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I must say that I will be more detailed in finding out what is going on, because it is also in the interests of Members of the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u482	Thank you very much, Member. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 56 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws to counter usury (print No. 3600). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u483	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The project against usury was initiated as a result of the observation of the prosecutor's practice. Namely, already in April 2016 in the so-called case. A large procedure was initiated in the housing usury, and a number of decommitted preparatory proceedings were launched in 2013 and 2015. It has shown gigantic abuses, violations of the rights of people who have lost their homes, houses for loan sharks, people who have been cynically deceived, who have often signed contracts, so-called. overlordship, in a situation where the extra-interest costs were several hundred, sometimes even several thousand times more than the sums that were lent to them. I will present to you only two cases in which the Attorney General brought emergency actions. The first case concerned you, who took just over 15,000. PLN loans for cosmetic cabinet equipment, meanwhile during the year interest increased, extra-interest costs, various types of margins, commissions, fees, the sum increased to more than 1,100 thousand. zł, it amounted to 730%. This case ended with an emergency complaint brought by Minister Zbigniew Ziebra and an annulment by the Supreme Court of this unfair sentence. Therefore, the reform of the Supreme Court was needed, the introduction of this new emergency control chamber was needed, and an emergency complaint was needed so that such cases of apparent injustice could be eliminated, removed and helped by these poor people. Second thing. On 26 June, recently, a month ago, another emergency complaint was filed by Minister Zbigniew Ziebra - concerning a person who borrowed about 4,000. zł, and she had to pay back $12,000. zł. The extra-interest costs amounted to 8,000. That's about 200%. the value of the loan granted. Of course, this kind of situation is something that we deal with on a daily basis. In addition, with regard to the actions of the prosecutor's office, a total of about 100 cases throughout the country were removed. Only in the Pomerania area at the moment there are about 1500 notarial acts concerning about 1000 properties under the supervision of the prosecution. Several dozen suspects have been investigated. Nearly 300 charges were brought against them. About 1,000 victims were found. The material is collected in about 700 volumes of case files. The total value of the property lost by the victims in all of these, almost 300, amounts to over PLN 32 million. For the first time, it was applied by our government, prepared by us in the Ministry of Justice, so-called. Expanded seizures. In total, the property was secured for the amount of approx. 8 million PLN. A compulsory mortgage was established on approximately 66 properties. There's more victims coming in all the time. This wave of giant fraud, injustice, shows that weed is a huge problem in our country. In view of the above, the same bill was created, which comprehensively resolves the situation, in particular by introducing a clear, fixed limit on non-interest costs: all margins, commissions, additional charges and insurance will not be able to exceed 20%. Another very important issue is the ban on expropriation. We forbid this kind of action. The ownership of the property will be irrelevant. The idea is to protect people in a forced position, people who often, for personal reasons, are not able to cope with such deceitful, draconian rates, extra-interest costs, and thus lose their entire life's work. This type of activity will be prohibited. Another, third shift. We're introducing regulations on the crime of usury. What is now, ladies and gentlemen, is in the article. 304, that's exploitation. This is not a classic usury crime. It is therefore necessary to introduce clear, objective criteria for the liability of perpetrators of this type of crime. Current criteria, which are very arbitrary and discretionary, often allow those who harm others to escape justice. I would like to remind you that between 2009 and 2010 almost 90% cases of proceedings were either cancelled or refused to initiate them. Only 20 cases have been brought to the courts and only four have been convicted. Three, four - two in the last year - cases end in convictions each year. These numbers, these facts call for vengeance to heaven. [[Exactly.]] Therefore, this law is necessary to help people in such a crisis situation. One of the cases which ended in refusing to initiate proceedings, ladies and gentlemen, at that time, in 2008-2010, was the case of a lady who borrowed PLN 650 and paid 21,000. She's still got 52 grand to pay. zł. The prosecution refused to initiate proceedings in this case. Almost 90% the proceedings ended with a write-off or a refusal to open in the years 2008 and 2010. Now these matters are being reopened, reopened. Indictments are being directed, and the criminals are being taken away. These are the successes of a good change. [[Applause]] This involves another very important change in our project: no one can be thrown out on the pavement for several hundred PLN debt. Therefore, we propose to exclude execution from real estate in a situation where the debt is less than 5% value of real estate. Another shift. We want to introduce a solution whereby these loan companies, various types of lending institutions, will be supervised by the Financial Supervision Commission. The Financial Supervision Commission will check all these procedures, be able to impose penalties, analyse whether such infringements are occurring. The next case is related to the so-called. Rolling. Rolling based on the so-called. the compound percentage causes the debt to increase in geometric progress. We therefore propose to ban the rolling of loans. Lending companies often use these types of runways, calling them deferred payment of the loan. It's got nothing to do with the adjournment. It's to get a client unaware of his situation into a giant spiral of debt. That's why we want to stop rolling. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I'm going to talk about something that's important in this place. Namely, in 2011 two very important regulations came out of the Anti-Liquiary Act. It's about art. 7a and 18a of the Consumer Credit Act. The first of these provisions made it clear that the maximum amount of non-pension costs was met, and the second indicated that the sentence of imprisonment up to the age of 2 was subject to those who claimed costs higher than those laid down by law. These provisions of the Anti-Liquiary Act were thrown out under very strange circumstances, and were indicated in the explanatory memorandum, with full awareness and cynicism, I stress that consumers' interests may be harmed by the need to bear higher costs than before, because creditors will benefit from removing the maximum cost limit from the legal order and will raise fees, commissions and other costs associated with the conclusion of a consumer credit agreement, this can happen. And with full awareness it was done. The effect did not have to be waited long - in the last few months loan sharks from all over the world flew here at the expense of our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! The changes introduced in 2015 by the Civic Platform are only apparent, they are a powder of this system and do not bring anything, as the report of the Financial Ombudsman of December ub clearly shows. year. The number of complaints to the Financial Ombudsman is constantly increasing. Last year it was 1700 complaints, in the previous year - about 1500 complaints. The financial Ombudsman clearly shows how these solutions, which were introduced at the time, can be dealt with. First of all, there is still no clear limit on non-interest costs, still insurance, margins, commissions, fees are the peril of our citizens. The financial Ombudsman even shows a graphical example of such a classic circumvention of the current law: the amount of loan received by the client in hand - 9 000. PLN, while all additional costs - 11 thousand, i.e. the maximum amount to be paid by the customer - 20 thousand. zł. This is, of course, entirely acceptable and various mechanisms to circumvent this law are clearly indicated in this report by the Financial Ombudsman. Therefore, it is our proposal to seal this system, to prohibit fraudulent methods used by various types of loaners, such toxic instruments. We take an example from other countries. In Poland the loan is only on paper, ladies and gentlemen, six times more expensive than in Germany and three and a half times more expensive than in Slovakia. I say: only on paper, because in fact these costs are 730% as in one example, 200%, 1000%. So that loan companies, all kinds of loan sharks have made themselves an eldorado in our country, preying on our citizens, preying on them. We can't let that happen. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u484	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u485	Thank you, Marshal. Indeed, the problem is so serious and so extensive that we are afraid that within these five minutes we will not really express the substance of the matter in any way. As the Minister said, the scale of these loans, these loan-making loans, is huge and growing, it turns out that it is growing, it is not decreasing, despite various attempts, including statutory restrictions. And what are these loan shark loans, we all know. These are loans which generate profits that are unjustified, neither the contribution of labour nor capital, nor the risks associated with it, undue gains at the expense of others, at the expense of exploitation. As I said, despite many attempts to reduce this loan-making activity, we are dealing with a huge value of contracts relating to these loans. In 2017, they were estimated at over PLN 5127 million. And what does it turn out to be? That among this group, which is the most disadvantaged and falls victim to usury, are older people, often pensioners, as well as young people, because young people either have no credit standing or have too long procedures in banks to obtain credit, so they reach this kind of source of funding for their consumer expenditure. This is often due also to the simple fact that Poles have confidence in state institutions, in the caring role of the state, especially the elderly, and then fall into a spiral of debt without an exit into various difficult situations. Here is the scale of the tragedy difficult to describe. Who among us in the parliamentary offices has not dealt with such cases and has not seen tears like large ambers falling on the floor, with regret, disappointment and helplessness? Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I commend the Ministry of Justice as a leading resort for this project and, of course, support for this initiative. The main form of protection introduced into the project is first of all to clarify the concept of extra-interest credit costs, the definition of which is probably referred to in two places, so we will have an easy way to determine what is legal. On the other hand, this was also the occasion when the cost limit for non-interest-bearing consumer loans was reduced, as the Minister mentioned, to 20%. Maximum interest has already been introduced, but the interest costs have been neglected - I will return to that question. The Penal Code, which is interesting, and this is also a protective tool, introduces a fine, a sentence of imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years for those lenders who will demand payment of extra-pensions costs in an amount exceeding the maximum amount of non-pensions costs at least twice. Another legal instrument is the obligation to conclude an agreement on how to secure the repayment of the loan on or under property and its value and the provision that the sum of the collateral of claims cannot be higher than the loan value plus maximum interest, possibly interest for the period when the loan was not paid, i.e. delay. And these things are clarified. The designer stresses the transparency of the terms of the contract. Before it is concluded, the total amount of non-interest expenses payable must be indicated. In the event of early repayment of the loan, it will also not be possible to request interest for the entire period for which the loan was granted, because unfortunately today we reach out to such methods of exploitation. The lenders reach out to such methods of exploitation - even if someone pays off earlier, he counts interest for the entire period. Real estate execution. An application for enforcement will also be possible for a creditor or several creditors if the amount of the claim exceeds 1/20 of the value of the estimated property. The project is prepared, I think, very comprehensively. In particular, the justification for this project deserves recognition, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where you give not only the experience of other countries in this area - because that is not a problem only Poland, but many countries, including the United States - but you also show from your own experience of the Ministry of Justice...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u486	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u487	...specific examples that allow us to formulate certain standards. The question may only arise as to whether such far-reaching restrictions will not reduce the supply of these services.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u488	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u489	Marshal, I'm finishing up. Demand is still so high that it seems that such a risk is not great. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u490	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u491	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am sorry to say that Minister Warchoł spoke out of the ordinary in part of his speech, and in the second part he lied. [[Voice from the hall: O Jesus.]] Minister, you spoke from the point of view, recalling the dramatic examples from 2009 and 2010, while you know perfectly well that in 2015 the Civic Platform government and this majority of the Sejm adopted the Anti-Likhwiar Act. I know what I'm saying because I was preparing her at the Ministry of Finance with my associates. [[In 2015, only after eight years.]] That's what you lied about when you said from the parliament stand in front of the High House that the Poles wouldn't pay more than 10%. for interest, although so far it has been possible. That's a lie. So far, the interest could not be higher than 10% either. This provision was introduced in 2015. The Civic Platform did this. You lied to the High House, and you lie to the Ministry of Justice's website, that you will finally reduce the extra-penetration costs, because today they are unlimited. After all, this is not true, is the upper limit introduced by the 2015 Act. Interestingly, this upper limit is high, 55% But you've been investigating this bill for four years and you've had 45% written down. [[And you're eight years old.]] There's 10%. less, but to call my bill powdering, and to say that you're the protector of poor people from usury, you'll admit it's an exaggeration. At the last meeting of the Council of Ministers, you changed this 45 to 20%, because Mr Ziobro and Mr Morawiecki could not come to an agreement on how to save here: one bank, the other SKOK-i, and yet to bring down other companies that are not related to you, finally you wrote 20% and sent to Brussels for notification. In the law there is 20%, in the impact assessment - 45%. I wonder what Brussels will think of the PiS government. You lied to the High House, saying that you will only now introduce a recipe that will prevent Poles from losing their homes to loan companies. That's not true, it's been in force for two years, but it's not thanks to you. It was the EU directive that introduced this provision and we implemented it 2 years ago. You said you're banning the rolling of loans while we're the ones who banned the rolling of loans in the Anti-Liquiary Act. That is not enough, the legal requirements for loan companies, the fast track of the prosecution and cooperation with the KNF - it was enough to follow the rules and apply the instruments we left you, it would not be those amber tears, Madame, in your parliamentary offices. But in my office, amber tears fall on the floor. Do you know when? When people come in and say they're being hurt by the SKOKs and that that's where they pay huge interest, and that they're being brought to the brink of poverty just by the SKOKs. [[Ah...]] And here's some very interesting information. Minister, how do you explain to the High House that this law is the only institution that will not have a ceiling on non-interest-bearing costs, is precisely pointing to the SKOKs? Because what can SKOK-i do: Do you want to take credit with me? You need to be a member. And in order to become a member, you have to buy the shares. [[A contribution.]] What's a share if I can't pay you off if I can't take a loan if I can't pay you in? You've actually made a bill that works against loan companies, but not to the client, because it's known that the SKOKs are competing for a client with loan companies. You want SKOKs who have been in trouble for years to bring clients to this. If that's how you want to protect people from usury, congratulations. And finally, you're talking about a financial spokesman, referring to a report that there's a growing number of complaints. Minister, you might know that the Financial Ombudsman set up the Civic Platform in 2015. It is obvious that when there is a new institution, people find that there is, and the number of complaints increases. I also don't know why you didn't refer to another report, a report prepared by a private company that you pointed your finger at. The company that requested $800,000 for the report. zł, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And someone had to pay for it. At the moment when it turned out that the report wasn't bad for the loan companies, you hid it in the drawer, waited four years, allowing us to scooter, and today at the last session of the Sejm you come with this bill, although you know...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u492	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u493	...that the notification in Brussels will last until 30 September. How do you plan on carrying out this bill and saving people from usury? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u494	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u495	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Lichwa is one of the most serious threats to the legal security of citizens and until certain regulations change, the housing of Poles will be in danger. This has been said in principle since the beginning of the High Chamber's term of office, but there has been no comprehensive action so far. It is good that at last, several weeks before the election, we will be able to solve this issue and give the hand to thousands of Poles who are victims of criminals who specialize in feeding on poverty, the gullibility of seniors or the forced position of those in financial difficulties. We are convinced as a club, based on the data of the financial spokesman's report, that the anti-Liquid regulations so far are not sufficient. The problem of loan interest has recently been noted by the Supreme Court, which has taken account of the emergency complaint of the Attorney General against the order for payment, to which the title was a loan of interest of 2% daily, or 730% on a yearly basis. There are dozens of examples that could be multiplied. Besides, many of the authors of the project mentioned in the justification of the project. As we will see, High Izbo, the problem of usury in historical terms, it will not be a big risk to say that Poland after 1989 was one big loan park. [[Exactly.]] Despite some changes that had already taken place in 2016, it was not entirely possible to stop the mob from using usury and, above all, what I call financial poaching, which most hurts, with the participation of public officials, i.e. notaries who, without the slightest scruples, signed under contracts transferring property in the event of not paying little in relation to their value of loans. In this context, I have recently observed the functioning of the prosecutor's office. One can say that there is a huge leap forward, despite the shortcomings of regulation. It cannot be said that the problem of usury carousels is behind us, but you can see, even in the actions of the Attorney General, decisive steps to remedy it. I am referring here to the order of Deputy Attorney General Robert Hernand that prosecutors be directing applications in civil proceedings for the annulment of loan agreements. And it's been happening on a large scale for a few years. The analysis of the project leads to the conclusion that the phenomenon of usury was finally subject to a comprehensive approach and hence changes in civil law, consumer credit law and banking law. There are also changes in criminal law, because usury is a model example of mutual penetration of civil and criminal law. I am personally most satisfied with the proposed changes to criminal law. I'm talking about art. 304 Penal Code. For years, High Izbo, I've been observing the activities of the 304 KK Association. It seems to me that these demands, which were proclaimed by the association, will eventually be realized. The main point is that the criminal responsibility for usury will not depend on the forced position from now on, but the materialization of this crime will take place. The exhaustion of 304 k.k., the Penal Code, will depend on objective factors, i.e. exceeding at least twice the maximum amount of non-penetration costs or the maximum percentage. And that's what prosecutors are waiting for, and with these tools, they're gonna be able to make an effective fight with the loan shark mobs. We have also raised this in the programme many times and in numerous debates, including. in the State in the State programme, as the Trade Union of Prosecutors and Workers of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which I have the honour of being Vice-President. There will be a lamentation of the lobbyists, ladies and gentlemen. There'll be a scream of liberal economists because I've heard that scream before. But when you hear it, you need to know it's gonna be really a cry for criminals. [[Of course.]] Because the end of Poland is coming, which in the name of neoliberal ideology was a paradise for loan sharks. The Kukiz Club 15 for the bill of designers gives a high grade, but on behalf of thousands of Poles who have fallen victim to usury, I can only ask: Why is it so late? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u496	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made a statement in writing. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to present themselves to the question? Thank you. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u497	Minister! Is it true, as Mrs Leszczyn so emotionally argued, that cooperative savings and credit funds in this law are exempt from the obligation to comply with the limits of non-remuneration costs? In my opinion, it is not true, it is a simple lie that you like, and it is very often used, by waving your hands and fingers here. Second question. This is not a new problem, it has been the subject of interest in the Public Finance Commission for years. We talked about how to deal with this in our previous term. What have you done? Was there a proposal for a cap on extra-interest costs? [[He is.]] She was. And what did you do? [[But he is.]] You've introduced a limit on interest costs, and you've left the statutory introduction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] limits on non-interest-bearing costs in 2011 Your Marshal, I have one important question, if you'd let me, I'd really...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u498	Then ask that question right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u499	Yes. Minister, there is a problem that I think is also extreme usury, and I do not believe it is solved in this project. There is a kind of housing loans granted in the 1970s to housing cooperatives for the construction of certain premises, the victims of which were co-operatives. Why? Because the contracts have been concluded so that for 20 years - I have evidence - the person pays his credit fairly, regularly and after 20 years he has not lost any gold or interest. Can we look at this, perhaps on the occasion of this law, because it is an extreme example of usury on a global scale? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u500	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u501	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Responding to numerous reported cases also occurring in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, where my office employees have repeatedly acted in defence of victims in so-called cases. I would like to say first of all that it is high time to put an end to the pathology occurring in this matter, where it is particularly clear how powerless an individual is to collide with well-planned and often implemented people of public trust with actions, actions that deprive them of the achievements of their entire lives, where law enforcement authorities could not touch the agreements, because someone acted in accordance with the applicable rules. There are a lot of cases like this on a national scale. Therefore, my question concerns an information campaign that would allow as many people as possible to reach out to the victims. Is the Ministry planning such an action in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u502	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u503	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the first reading of the bill, so the questions are necessarily general. Firstly, on the margins of this draft law, you signal the so-called. Usage calculator. It's a very good idea, except that loan shark victims are often victims of older people who are electronically excluded. Therefore, I have a simple question: Does the new provisions provide that the contract will provide for the entire cost of the loan, so that the expressis verbis borrower knows where it stands? The second point concerns not only the rules, but also the practice, because whether weed hula or not decides not only the rules, but also the practice of the functioning of public policy bodies, the judicial authorities. As you know, they haven't worked very well so far. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So do you see new ways of acting against these new rules? And yet, if your marshal will allow me, one last question...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u504	But you're welcome, because Marshal Terlecki wouldn't allow those 11 seconds. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u505	Thank you very much. Namely, the question is the following. Already today, ways of overcoming the new rules are being signaled. In general, it is that the lenders, the lenders, will cooperate with the recovery companies. Have you considered, or have you already, with this knowledge, introduced mechanisms to prevent this from happening at the Parliament stage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u506	Thank you very much. Thank you. And please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Such a true usury applies to people mostly of senior age, as well as to people who are located, for example. because of the illness in a critical situation, that is, they need money for some surgery or for going abroad, whether with a child or with an adult. The first question is this: Why, if you think this bill will help such people avoid traps, is the vacathio legis 6 months? Is it really necessary to implement the provisions of this law for such a long time? And the second thing is this. What can be done in this case, when the mother of the child being treated collects money, borrows money from a company that calculates endless interest. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it enough to report? We as doctors, if we know about this situation, where should we report it? The D.A.'s office? Because these people are really helpless. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u508	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u509	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I've been doing business on a pretty large scale for almost 40 years now. In this course of internship, a person has touched things, and one thing I know is that thieves need to be exterminated and put in prison, and quickly, without undue delay, that we must limit the usury and keep as far away from business as possible, because money, when it comes to those who are engaged in business, it is not easy to earn, the presidents of the regional courts must be disciplined, because it is wrong, and they also contribute to it, by bringing their guilt into the wrong organization too late, and then those who will see it, have the ease of trading property. The presidents are so insolent that they say that I can go - because I met with such a case - e.g. on a complaint, submit it to his actions. Sick? But I wanted to ask: What do you think it means to roll? How do you understand banking or other institutions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that... I'd ask for an answer here, because it's important. Otherwise, is it understood in such a way that this rolling is the next credit after credit, or is there any other specific conditions resulting from this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u510	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr Henryk Wnorowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u511	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! People in a forced situation, sometimes naive, sometimes reckless, sometimes too reckless, sometimes too gullible when it comes to advertising, sometimes uneducated or economically unconscious, are also part of our society. These are people who need to be helped, at least in such a way that they are not used in the light of the law. The problem is serious, and it's a frightening scale. In my opinion, the bill is very much needed. I can only have doubts about the effectiveness of this law, therefore I have questions, and in principle suggestions to the government about helping these people on the supply side, let's call it civilized moments. The truth is, we have a very good structure of banks. Banks often in their strategies [[♪ The bell ♪]] they use the term 'aid' in places where it is not aid. They could now help Polish naive consumers...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u512	Draw close to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u513	...so the parabanks wouldn't have such a momentary eldorado. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u514	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u515	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is very good that there is a law that tightens up the rules on usury. We have heard many times in the media about the tragedies caused by usury, where interest rates reached several hundred percent, leading to many tragedies, among others. Suicides, homes, and other goods were carried out. I would add that such high interest rates were felt especially by older people, seniors, who had saved themselves with small loans, and they learned that they had to pay many times more, many times more than the amount of the loan taken. And here's the question: Wouldn't the introduction of such a tightening of the law lead to the creation of a grey zone? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u516	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u517	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very warmly from this point of view for this bill on behalf of all those who come to the parliamentary offices and, as Mrs Masłowska said, are shocked, very often distraught, weeping, telling dramatic stories. I wanted to ask the Minister about this case. In 2018, an article titled: That's how the notary mob got rich. It was described in Gdańsk where between 2010 and 2016 400 properties took place. This was described more or less as follows: The fraudulent conduct continued between 2010 and 2016. His mechanism was simple: crooks searched [[♪ The bell ♪]] older people who have had a severe financial situation. They borrowed a small amount of money from the indebted. At that time a gang of notaries entered the game - although they were obliged to take care of business...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u518	Go ahead and finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u519	...all the parties - already, your marshal - were preparing documents so that new owners took over houses and apartments of unconscious people. I wanted to ask you: What are the consequences that you foresee for notaries above all? 'Cause it's the property ownership of these apartments...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u520	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u521	...the real estate must have been with these people.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u522	Thank you very much. But you're welcome, because...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u523	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u524	Really, I'm indulgent, but the state... I have to watch my discipline.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u525	That's why I'm asking for one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u526	Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u527	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about how the Minister of Justice is going to end the legislative process of this bill, since the last sitting... And don't allow discounting, since she's so important. She's been lying in your drawer for four years, but we agree she's important because people have to be protected from usury. But if you don't want to get discounted, since we have the last session of the Sejm in mid-September, while you've sent the bill for notification, there's a standstill clause by 30 September. It's just impossible. Then I'd like you to explain. Second question. In the context of Mr Masłowska's question, because she asked them quite cleverly, as a defender of the SKOKs, of course. The Minister will answer that the SKOK-i, of course, apply this non-interest-free limit. But I'm gonna ask you another question, Minister, and I'm gonna ask you an answer. If I want to take credit from an institution, and the condition for taking this loan is to buy out a share, is that the extra cost of the loan, or isn't it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last question. Mrs Masłowska, wrongly accusing me of lying, has committed herself a lie. Let me repeat from this speaker: In 2015, we introduced a limit on non-interest-bearing credit costs - in 2015. - and you voted for it. You should remember that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u528	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Martin Warchoł to refer to the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u529	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In 2015, the law was only apparent. It was just, as I said, powdering this system and it was your financial spokesman who made it clear in this report. To be honest, Commissioner, thank you very much, because I did not know that the financial spokesman was elected by you, I did not check the term of office... [[Not elected, I even introduced him.]] ...but this report of the Financial Ombudsman of December 2018 clearly shows how this wonderful bill of yours is being celebrated today - for example, rolling. The Member accuses me of lying, and in the meantime, your financial spokesman tells me how loans can be rolled. Here you go, on page 5 of this report: In one of the cases examined by the Ombudsman, the consumer had seven times the original amount of the loan refinanced. In each refinancing agreement, fees were charged to the consumer. This led to a situation where the same debt merely formally changed the creditor, with huge costs, especially in comparison with the capital available. In the view of the Financial Ombudsman chosen by the Platform, such action is intended to circumvent the provisions on maximum non-interest-bearing credit costs which you supposedly introduced by sealing the bill... [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] ...in the event of a delay in repayment of the debt or in the granting of further loans before the early repayment of the loan. The answer to the Member's question about what rolling is. [[Applause]] Another point about other ways to circumvent this law. We now have a whole spectrum of possibilities to circumvent this law. No patronage. It's not there. You can depreciate the property. Those tragedies we're talking about today, that's what they're about. You didn't see this in 2015? Why is it that you, when you sign as the author of this law, have done nothing about banning prerogative for consumer property protection, which we are just introducing now? [[No, you're not. You're lying.]] The depreciation of collateral is still acceptable today. Ladies and gentlemen, this project ultimately prohibits such activities. I answer: the misappropriation of real estate, which is still legal today, will soon be prohibited. As regards the mechanism for the European Commission. Today, too, there was news in the media from the Platform that the government, not knowing what to do with the bill, sent it to the committee because it is not sure whether this law is compatible with EU law or not. I would like to say to you, who have repeatedly raised your europeanness, that this is an obligation. It is the responsibility of the Government to notify such a law to the European Commission in accordance with Article. 6 Directives. We have this duty... [[We have.]] ...we have obeyed EU law. [[But at the end of your term?]] On the basis of the above, the Commission indicated the time limit which it indicated. She refused the emergency procedure. We don't have the power to do this anymore. On the other hand, the article. 6 clearly refers to a ban on the adoption of a law. The debate on the law may take place in the Commission. I welcome today's first reading with great joy, for this work is beginning, so that the adoption of the law does not take place before the date of the Commission's agreement. The next question was asked by Anna April. Thank you very much, Member, for this question. According to the notary documents, the interest rate on the loan was 10%. up to 20%, while it actually reached 80%. Absolutely, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, [[Jesus Christ!]] We've had this situation, we have it all the time, because it's an important procedure that goes on all the time, and it's extremely big. More than 400 people are hurt. The value of the property lost is over PLN 20 million. With full cynicism, poor, helpless people were used with calculating. [[Who's the genius?]] In the course of this procedure there are also about 120 allegations for notaries, ladies and gentlemen, in connection with fraud, in connection with other complaints. These actions are extremely morally reprehensible, especially when it comes to notaries. The victims reported to the notaries with full confidence that they represented the majesty of the state, but met with this type of action. Consequently, the full agreement that this procedure is intended to establish the responsibility of the guilty persons. It also aims to restore this justice, which has been so brutally trampled. Let's get to the next question. Mr Rometsky asked about the grey zone. This is, ladies and gentlemen, old man, I would say, a well-known grip used by various types of loan companies, which in their lobbyist activities are trying to scare the pawnshops to bloom, that there will be a gray zone. Nothing like this will happen, as the report from the European Commission shows. The Commission, when preparing the directive, has commissioned research in other countries that have dealt with this problem. It's about France and Germany. I had a chance to be in France on Wednesday. That's where the extra costs are, ladies and gentlemen, 21.5%. Here the market is regulated. The Commission asked, by commissioning this opinion, whether this really led to the expansion of the grey zone. Nothing, absolutely not. I can tell you more. There were further liberalisations of this law, which the Platform introduced. In 2011, two important regulations were fired. I wonder why. Why, ladies and gentlemen, are these regulations out? [[But please talk about 2015. Applicable in 2015.]] Why don't you tell me why the laws, 7a and 18a, were fired in 2011? What happened then that you removed those laws? I do not know whether you were here with us or not. [[She was ministering.]] Unfortunately, this is highly reprehensible. With full cynicism, these provisions were removed, explaining in the justification that this would cause damage to customers. Such protective mechanisms were thrown out for customers. Another question by Mr Wnorowski regarding the supply of such loans. Indeed, in other systems banks took over to a large extent the provision of loans. It's in France, it's in Germany. Such solutions related to the relevant recommendations are also provided for in the Act. Namely, the Commission for Financial Supervision, ladies and gentlemen, has the task of periodically verifying the possibility for banks to grant such loans. For example, in France, the central bank officially publishes on the website the maximum non-interest-bearing costs that are acceptable for such loans. It is the central bank that regularly determines what is usury and what is not usury on a quarterly basis. This is the kind of solution that we foresee in our bill. On the other hand, about 10% of the statutory costs, they were and are. I do not understand the charges of lying, Madam Member, to me. 10% It was and it is today. [[But you said...]] Nothing changes around here. That's statutory interest. We're not discussing statutory interest, we're discussing extra-interest costs. Here's the problem. [[But look at the transcript.]] It's all kinds of margins, fees, commissions. You have accused Mrs Masłowska of the question of participation, of buying membership. These are also non-remuneration costs, which are also covered by this law. The total cost of providing the benefit also covers all such charges, so that no more circumvention of that law. It's a shame you didn't see it in 2015. And I think I've run out of answers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u530	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Isabella Leszczyn still wants to take the floor as corrected. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u531	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! It's a good thing there are transcripts, because the Minister will be able to read to himself in the transcript, what he said in his first speech. And not just what you said. Perhaps today on the website of the Ministry of Justice there is such a great infographic that from now on interest costs - 10% And it wasn't like that before. Minister! Really, you're telling it yourself, you were just saying it. That's one thing. Secondly, you are misleading the High House, again speaking of participations in the SKOKs, that they are included in the non-remunerated credit costs. This is not apparent in any way from the bill. But most importantly, when it comes to the financial spokesman, not only did we choose him, we introduced him into the legal system with a whole package of pro-consumer laws, with more powers for the UOKiK and with the Anti-Liquid Act. And if you could interpret the consumer credit law, you'd know that it's not possible to take over the apartment for a loan, just that you don't want to interpret the law properly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and from individual cases and failures of the prosecution or courts, you are accusing that the 2015 Act was impenetrable. It's just not true. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u532	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the PSL - Coalition Poland club to present our position on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to counter usury, print no. 3600. This project aims to protect people exposed to usury and reduce the socially harmful phenomenon of usury in Poland. The project provides for a prison sentence from 3 months to 5 years for anyone who, in exchange for a natural person's cash benefit resulting, inter alia. the loan contract requires it to pay additional costs twice as much as the maximum or to require it to pay interest at a rate twice as high as the maximum. The authors also propose the introduction of supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission over loan institutions. However, the main tool of the new law is to reduce the upper limit of the non-interest-bearing cost of consumer credit. Currently, for several years now, there has been a limit of 55% off-set costs. The first version adopted in mid-June by the government of the so-called project. The Anti-Liquiary Act provided for a reduction of this limit to 45%, a week later the limit was reduced to 20% and eventually reduced to 10%. High Izbo! Without a doubt, we should effectively fight the cases of usury, including as drastic as described in the justification of the project. However, the question needs to be asked: Were these incorrect provisions the cause of these cases and whether the solutions proposed in the draft will solve this problem? The examples used by the authors of the draft law to illustrate the importance of the problem of usury and to justify the need for legislative intervention refer to cases of contracts which have been concluded long before the entry into force of the provisions already in force for several years establishing a limit on the non-remuneration costs of consumer credit or which are not subject to the provisions of the law. So it is not the current law that is the source of these damned practices. Their source is the lack of effectiveness of law enforcement and justice in enforcing existing legislation. It is also debatable that such a drastic, jumping reduction of the upper limit of the non-interest-bearing cost of consumer credit is so drastic. In our view, this should be done gradually, over the years, in order to properly assess the impact of the new rates on the situation of borrowers and lenders. Initial proposed 45% , so 10% reduction It would be a more cautious policy. We could assess the functioning of the market and the situation of customers of credit institutions under new conditions and possibly continue this trend in the future. In the current form, the proposed rules are hitting legally operating loan companies, which are already subject to the UOKiK and KNF. Today there is no shortage of opinions and analyses that say that the whole industry, employing 40,000. people, will fall after a sudden decrease in the limits of extra-interest costs. For the budget, this will mean a decrease in revenue per year by PLN 2.2 billion, because this is what the sector of loan institutions pays in taxes. An important question that is raised in the debate on the loan market is the question of the shadow economy and the illegal segment of the market, which is out of control and which often forces the recovery of claims by brutal methods. The question cannot be asked: Will not existing customers of credit institutions who charge salty fees for their services, but who are under the supervision of the State, move to such shady sources of funding? Legal lenders, if they survive on the market at all after a drastic reduction in the upper limit of non-interest-bearing credit costs, will be most likely to judge customers more strongly in terms of their ability to repay the loans and will much more often refuse them these loans. Such customers can find themselves in a much worse situation than today, desperate to use illegal sources of funding, where debt recovery is much more severe and painful, sometimes literally painful. Let us also expect the explosion of pawn shops and the grey zone, a very large pathology of social relations against the financial background. This will be a huge problem for the prosecution, which will be flooded with reports of various types of minor loan fraud, which will be out of control because the market hates vacuum. Isn't it better to pay a few dozen percent for a loan, but within the limits of state law and control, under a legal agreement with an institution under state supervision, than to fall into the hands of gray-zone lenders, i.e. real loan sharks? The project also includes changes that we welcome. It is important to commend the conclusion of the project with the principle that the pursuit of the loan shark was dependent on whether he knew that the person taking the loan was in a forced position, i.e. in a difficult situation of life, and dramatically needs money to ensure the basic conditions of life, such as food, medicines, billing fees. This discretion of law has so far been the cause of the impunity of loan sharks. In the most drastic cases, when the debtor, after taking out a loan of PLN 500.600, had to repay several tens of thousands of zlotys, this provision led to the remission of the case. It is good that the project assumes the end of freedom in setting additional charges also for loans granted under civil law agreements, i.e. borrowing. in a private person. As the practice shows, many appalling cases of usury are precisely this type of loan, not provided by lending companies, but by other entities. On the plus side, it should also be calculated that it will not be possible to request the transfer of ownership of the property to cover the liabilities incurred. The possibility to carry out bail-out will be eliminated if the amount of debt does not exceed 5% the value of the house or premises. We have already had cases in Poland where people lost their homes for several hundred zloty loans. High Izbo! The presented government project goes very far, radically changes the loan market in Poland. In its current form, with a 10% cut in off-interest costs, it can eliminate the entire industry, operating under the law and under supervision. It's an employee of $40,000. people and paying over PLN 2 billion of taxes to the state budget. In addition, which does not correspond to the most drastic cases of usury, described widely in the justification of the project. At the same time, by introducing a 10% off-interest cost limit, you will lead to the expansion of the grey zone and the associated pathology of social life. In addition to the provisions that can actually contribute to the elimination of the phenomenon of usury, the project also unfortunately contains provisions that will eliminate the entire sector of companies, companies that comply with the rules in force, have nothing to do with these pathological phenomena. We can't afford that. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the club PSL - Coalition Poland I see the need for far-reaching changes in the project. In the proposed shape it does not lead to actual protection against usury.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u534	Minister! Effective clearing of the usury is an obvious requirement of civilization, which is not least questionable in anyone who understands moral, ethical but also the fundamentals of Latin culture, which we are part of, as a result of the social sciences. In addition to the legal framework, which, through the proposed amendment, will be clarified, it seems that much emphasis should be placed on the education of the public in terms of the ability to recognise loan traps. In this connection, I would like to ask: Are information measures also envisaged and the creation of support mechanisms, including legal support mechanisms, for those under pressure by unfair lenders?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u535	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government draft law amending certain laws in order to counter usury, contained in print No. 3600, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 57th and 58th agenda: 57. First reading of the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act (Print No. 3573). 58. First reading of the Senate bill amending the law Family and caring code (print No 3486). I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michał Wójcik to present the justification for the bill contained in print 3573.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u536	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The reasons for the draft law submitted by the Council of Ministers amending the Family and Care Code Act are the need arising from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was issued on 16 May 2018 in case K 18/17, and the need to amend the article. 70 § 1 Family and Care Code. The Court found that this provision was incompatible with several provisions of the Constitution: Article. 30, in conjunction with Article. 47, Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution, in respect of which it sets a time limit for an adult child to bring an action for denial of the fatherhood of his mother's husband, regardless of the date on which that child becomes aware that it does not originate from his mother's husband. The provision provides that a child may bring such an action within 3 years of his or her age. However, such a time limit applies to a full-time child also in the case of an action for denial of motherhood, as stated in the article. 61 § 1 Family and caring code, and actions for determination of the ineffectiveness of the recognition of fatherhood governed by Article. 81 § 2 Family and caring code. There has therefore been a need to harmonise the rules and the proposal proposes to amend both provisions in the same way as in the case of the Article. 70 § 1, which was challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal. The amendment is to modify the beginning of the period for an adult child to bring an action in each of these actions by indicating that the period runs from the moment the child learns that it is not biologically derived from the person who is included in the birth certificate as a mother or a father, and that the period does not begin to run if the child has obtained such information before he or she is of age. In this case, the beginning of the run is the day that the child reaches age. In view of the progress made in determining the origin of the child and the natural pursuit of the truth in terms of biological origin, it is necessary, at least in our opinion, to extend to 1 year the current six-month time limits for each of the actions provided for in different situations, inter alia. Article 2 61 § 1 and 2, Art. 63, Art. 64 § 1, Art. 64 (2), Art. 65, Art. 69 § 1, Art. 78 § 1 in matters for recognition and as a consequence in Article. 76 § 2 Family and caring code. It's about accepting the fatherhood of a dead child. Based on the considerations made in the statement of reasons made by the Constitutional Tribunal, the draft also concluded that the mother's husband should be able to bring an action for denial of fatherhood within a time limit calculated from the moment he became aware that he was not the father of his wife's child and not from the moment he was informed of the birth of the child by his wife. It is now mentioned in the article. 63 and Article 63 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Similarly, the mother should be able to bring an action for denying her husband's father's father from the moment she realized that he was not the father of her child, not since the child was born, as is currently regulated by the article. 69 § 1 of the Family and Care Code. For this reason, we are updating the rules accordingly, and we are proposing to amend them. In the interests of systemic consistency, a limitation will be introduced that the bringing of such an action may take place at the latest by the date on which the child reaches his/her age. Given that time limits are extended for the mother and father to bring negative actions in relation to the origin of the child and that the time limit for such action by the child is to start running from the moment the child becomes aware that it does not originate from the person concerned, it is foreseen that the time limit for the child should also be one year. Only during a transitional period, in order not to deprive the child of entitlement in this respect, a period of 3 years from the date of entry into force of the Act was adopted. Of course, it is also desirable that the proceedings for the denial of fatherhood or for the denial of motherhood and for the determination of the ineffectiveness of the recognition of fatherhood initiated before the date of entry into force of the Act be completed on the basis of provisions which are more favourable to the parties. Therefore, the principle of applying new rules in these proceedings should be adopted, and in this respect the Article is being designed. 2 (2) 1 amendment. The proposed law should enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. This is a short time, given that it is a matter of regulation of the Code, but the proposed changes do not complicate existing legal relations, do not diminish the powers of the persons concerned, so there is no obstacle to such a deadline. The draft submitted is the continuation of those changes in the Family and Care Code which were initiated on the basis of a law adopted unanimously by Parliament of 16 May 2019 amending the Family and Care Code and the Civil Procedure Act. Please accept the submitted proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u537	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Senator Alexander Swede to present the justification for the bill contained in print 3486.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u538	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate of the Republic of Poland an initiative on amending the law Family and caring code. This amendment is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 16 May 2018 e.g. Act SK 18/17 found non-compliance with Article. 70 § 1 of the Law of 25 February 1964. The Family and Care Code with the Constitution. The Court held that that provision, in so far as it sets a time limit for an action against the fatherhood of a mother's husband, irrespective of the date on which an adult child becomes aware of the fact that it does not originate from a mother's husband, is incompatible with the Constitution. The problem is that this term is completely disconnected from the moment when the person concerned learned that it was not from his mother's husband. The legal solution provided for in the contested Article. 70 § 1, which closes the investigation of the denial of fatherhood after the expiry of the 3-year deadline, constitutes a restriction on the constitutional right to know its own biological roots. The proposed amendment proposes that a child should be able to bring an action after age to deny the fatherhood of his mother's husband, but no later than three years after his or her age. However, if the child learns that it does not come from his mother's husband after he is of age, the time limit will begin to run from the day the child learns about the circumstances. The three-year period for a child to bring an action for denial of motherhood or the determination of the ineffectiveness of the recognition of fatherhood shall be determined in the same way as in the case of denial of fatherhood. Thus, in the Senate's proposal for an amendment, it is proposed that the family and caring code of 25 February 1964 should be amended as follows. Art. 61 § 1 is replaced by the following: "A child may bring an action for denial of motherhood within three years of the attainment of adulthood. If the child has heard of the circumstances referred to in Article. 61 § 1, when the child is of age, that period shall begin to run from the date on which the child becomes aware of the circumstances. Art. 70 § 1 is replaced by the following: "A child may, after reaching adulthood, bring an action for denial of the fatherhood of his mother's husband, but no later than three years after the attainment of adult age. If the child has heard of the circumstances referred to in Article. 67, when the child is of age, that period starts to run from the day the child learns about the circumstances. Art. 81 § 2 is replaced by the following: With this request, the child may come to age, but no later than three years after it has been achieved. If the child becomes aware of the circumstances referred to in paragraph 1, the period shall begin to run from the date on which the child becomes aware of the circumstances when he or she is of age. The Act would enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Joint Senate committees: the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy worked on the proposed amendment on 13 February and 10 April. A number of opinions were presented during the consultation for the proposed amendment. I would like to stress that among others. The Supreme Court, the Social Insurance Institution, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, the KRS, the Prosecutors' Association of Lex super omnia, the KRUS and the Supreme Bar Council have not submitted any comments, while the Prosecutor General and the Ombudsman have submitted comments on the article. 60, taking into account the reference to Article. 67. These comments have been taken into account in this amendment. The Ministry of Justice also expressed its opinion, whose similar project, although in a slightly extended version, is also subject to the procedure at this point. This Senate initiative on amending the Family and Care Code was adopted at the 78th Senate meeting on 8 May this year. by 83 votes to one abstention. This regulation will allow legal confirmation of biological identity and will adapt the system of right to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, I request that the Sejm adopt the attached draft amendment to the Family and Care Code Act in print No 3486 or that the proposals submitted be taken into account in further work on the joint project within the framework of a broader proposal prepared by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u539	Thank you very much, Senator. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Artur Rule will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u540	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The need for amendments to the Law of 25 February 1964. The Family and Care Code on subsidiary law arises from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 May 2018. In that judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal held that Article. 70 § 1 The family and caring code, in so far as it sets a time limit for an action to deny the fatherhood of the mother's husband, irrespective of the date on which an adult child hears that he does not come from his mother's husband, is incompatible with Article. 30 in conjunction with Article. 47 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Consequently, the amendment of the Article is also proposed in order to harmonise the regulation in this area. 61 § 1 concerning the denial of motherhood and Article. 81 § 2 on the determination of the failure to recognise the fatherhood. In view of the above, it is proposed to modify the beginning of the period for the child to bring an action for denial of motherhood, denial of fatherhood and determination of the inefficiencies of the recognition of fatherhood. According to the proposal, these terms are to run from the day the child learns of biological failure to come from a person whose motherhood or fatherhood has been established. In the case of proposed provisions, Article. 61, Art. 70 § 1 and Article 1 80 § 2 of the Family and Care Code, specifying the legitimacy of the child to bring an action for denial of motherhood, denial of fatherhood and determination of the ineffectiveness of the recognition of fatherhood, is proposed to change the three-year pre-emptive terms into annual terms. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the referral of these projects - a government project from print No 3573 and a Senate project from print No 3486 - a law amending the Family and Care Code Act for further work in parliamentary committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u541	Thank you very much, sir. Katarzyna Osos made a written statement. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk - a written statement. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan - a written statement. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The only question is asked by Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u542	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Both statutory records state that a child who is 18 years old can claim fatherhood or motherhood after having been informed about another mother or another father within three years of that time. And what if these three years pass, and such a child, already grown up, are affected by an illness that requires an organ transplant or a stem cell transplant that would be perfect if it came from a biological parent? What do both of these regulations provide for such circumstances? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u543	Thank you very much, Member. Will the Minister want to answer this question now or in writing? That's a very precise question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u544	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, we were a little surprised by this question, we are not hiding it, but we have quickly exchanged our comments with the judge. The D.A. can always bring such an action. It seems like it's going to be this situation. On the other hand, we are ready to turn to this question and possibly answer it in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u545	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I will present my position towards the Senate draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Government bill amending the Family and Care Code Act. Both projects shall carry out the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 16 May 2018 in which the Tribunal has ruled that Article. 70 § I of the Code, in so far as it sets a time limit for an action for denial of the fatherhood of the mother's husband, regardless of the date on which an adult child hears about the fact that it does not come from a mother's husband, is incompatible with the Constitution. The claim for denial of fatherhood is the only mechanism laid down by law to overturn the presumption of legal origin from the mother's husband. The current solution, which is to close the investigation of the denial of fatherhood after the expiry of the 3-year deadline, is undoubtedly a restriction on the constitutional right to know its own biological roots. It is not a problem in this case that, with the expiry of 3 years from the date on which the child reaches adulthood, the possibility of challenging the legal presumption of the article is definitely lost. 62 § 1 or 2 k.r.o., but the fact that this term is completely detached from the moment when the person concerned learned that it was not from his mother's husband. Therefore, the projects propose to modify the time limit for the denial of both fatherhood and motherhood, as well as, in the government project, to determine the inefficiencies of recognition. The Senate project envisages that this deadline will be 3 years from the date of age, except that when a child becomes aware of this situation after he or she is of age, the time limit starts to run from the date on which the child becomes aware of the circumstances. On the other hand, the government project assumes that it will be possible to bring an action within a year from the date on which the child learned of this circumstance. In addition, the government project envisages changing the beginning of deadlines for mother and mother's husband to bring an action for denial of fatherhood. They would start from the day these people learn that the child does not come from the mother's husband. High Izbo! Given that the projects are the execution of the Constitutional Court's judgment and the growing importance of the possibility of establishing origin on the basis of biological truth, we are in favour of directing both projects to further work in order to find final solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe - Coalition Polska to present our position on the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act (print No 3573) and the Senate draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act (print No 3486). The draft amendment of the Family and Care Code, contained in print No 3573, implies a modification of the beginning of the period for the child to bring an action for denial of motherhood, denial of fatherhood and determination of the inefficiencies of the recognition of fatherhood. If a child learns of a lack of biological origin from a person whose motherhood or fatherhood has been established - before he reaches his age - the time limit for bringing an action for denial of motherhood, denial of fatherhood and determination of the inefficiencies of recognition of fatherhood will count from the date on which they reach adulthood. The child will have a year to bring such an action. The proposal also proposes changing the beginning of deadlines for mother and mother's husband to bring an action for denial of fatherhood. He would start running from the day these people learned that the child did not come from his mother's husband. At the same time, there will be a restriction that the bringing of an action may take place at the latest by the date on which the child reaches age. High Izbo! The annual time limits contained in the project should be considered appropriate and appropriate. On the one hand, they offer an opportunity to make a thoughtful decision with extremely serious and long-term consequences, and on the other hand, they do not unduly destabilise the legal situation of the child. The second Senate project (print No 3486) is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 May 2018. The Court held that Article. 70 § I k.r.o. to the extent that it sets a time limit for an action to be brought against the fatherhood of the mother's husband, regardless of the date on which an adult child becomes aware of the fact that it does not originate from his mother's husband, it is incompatible with the constitution. The contested article states that a child may bring an action for denial of the fatherhood of his mother no later than 3 years after his or her age. This poses a difficult situation for those who have learned about their real biological father later than within the three years after they have completed their teenage years. Such persons do not have the opportunity to bring an action for denial of paternity, which violates their constitutional right to know and legal recognition of their origin in accordance with biological truth. In view of the above, the authors of the senate project propose that the 3-year term should be counted against the attainment of the child's age, unless the difference between the legally established branch bond and the biological bond of the child is known only after the child's age is reached. In such a situation, the date on which the person concerned becomes aware of the circumstances on which the action is based will be valid for the start of the period. High Izbo! The project corrects the obvious lack in the Family and Care Code, which has so far prevented people from changing their legal status until they were 21 years old who found out who their biological father was. The proposal enabling such persons to take appropriate legal action in accordance with the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment raises no doubt.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act (Print No 3573) and the Senate's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act (Print No 3486). Both of these projects aim to bring the Polish system of right into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 May 2018, in which the non-compliance of the article was found. 70 § 1 of the Law of 25 February 1964. The Family and Care Code with the Constitution. According to the contested rules, a child may bring an action after reaching adulthood to deny the fatherhood of his mother's husband, but no later than three years after his or her age was reached. The Senators of the Republic of Poland propose that a three-year period for the child to bring an action for denial of fatherhood should be counted from the date on which they took the news of their origin. The government project is a further project. In addition to changing the calculation of the start of this period, it is also assumed to be reduced to 1 year. In addition, it provides for an extension from 6 months to 1 year of time limits limiting the active card to question the origin of the child. Knowledge of its biological origin is becoming increasingly important not only for emotional reasons, but also for health reasons through the development of medicine. Information about what diseases we are genetically burdened with affects how we live daily and how we use prevention. Therefore, I consider the amendments proposed in both projects to be extremely necessary. I'm happy with the government's initiative. The Committee welcomes the fact that, when designing the changes discussed today, the experts did not merely limit themselves to the regulations challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal, but looked at the problem holistically. Thanks to this, we are talking today about a solution that covers the whole problem, not just its clipping. However, despite the well-founded argument in the explanatory memorandum of the Government's proposal to align the legal situation of all entities directly and not necessarily concerned about the denial of the origin of the child, I have doubts as to whether a reduction to 1 year of the current 3-year period for the child to bring an action is an appropriate compromise. I believe that this may be too far-reaching a limitation compared to today's situation. I trust that this issue will be discussed again in the course of further work. The Free and Solidarni Circle is in favour of directing both projects to further work in the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u549	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act, contained in print No 3573, and the Senate's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act, contained in print No 3486 to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 84th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[Declarations.]] I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. First... [[One.]] Ms Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice, will make her first parliamentary statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u550	Thank you, Marshal. On 12 July a beautiful celebration of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village took place in Szczecin, the commune of Guscieradów, Lubelskie Voivodeship. The Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village was established by the present parliament, during the current term of the Sejm, by law of 29 September 2017. The day of 12 July was chosen - as the day on which the greatest pacifications of Polish villages took place, among others. the pacification of the village of Michniów in Kielce by German invaders. This day was established by Parliament as a tribute to the rural population, who experienced oppression, mass murders, displacements, exports to Russian lagoons and German concentration camps, arson of buildings, etc. The martyrdom of the Polish village during the Second World War, which Poles living in rural areas suffered, was a retaliation for fighting in guerrilla troops, for supplying food to occupied cities, for delivering young people to military troops, for giving shelter to guerrillas, for hiding the population displaced from cities all over Poland, and for storing the Jewish population. In such circumstances, hundreds of villages were the victims of the pacification, among others. On February 2, such fate met residents of Borów village in Lublin, near Annopola, where the Germans burned down the church filled with people, then several hundred men, women and children died, burning the whole village at the same time. Individuals survived. Such fate was shared by many Polish villages. Therefore, setting up a day of struggle and martyrdom for them is an expression of homage and memory, and at the same time a warning against the atrocities of war. This year, as I mentioned, the celebrations of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village took place on 12 July in Szczecyn in the commune of Guscieradów, in the Lublin Voivodeship. The people of this village took part in the celebrations, although it was not a day off from work, and the surrounding villages, representatives of the state authorities together with the Lublin Voivodeship, local self-governments headed by the Marshal of Lublin Voivodeship and parliamentarians, and what is very, very important, school youth and scouts. The celebrations began with Holy Mass. in a local church where flowers were placed in front of the monument in honor of the murdered. The celebrations played a great educational and educational role in the case of Polish youth, as well as an integration role - in the case of villagers. As a participant in the ceremony, I would like to highlight the appealing hospitality of the villagers Szczecin, including the participation, of course, of the village hostels' circles, as well as the support of the local parish priest. During the meeting there was an opportunity to discuss, share experiences, which, I am convinced, will result in new initiatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u551	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u552	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to raise the issue of the usefulness of genetic tests in diagnostics and cancer treatment. The cause of cancer is not entirely known, but it is known that genetic factors play a very important role. These may be congenital or acquired factors. However, this is not what I wanted to talk about, how this is happening, but what practically this diagnosis looks like in Poland. In Poland, access to genetic research is very difficult, especially with regard to the population of people who are over 18 years of age. In fact, every cancer patient should have a thorough genetic examination of the cancer he is suffering from and, in addition, a disposition to have cancer. The number of tumor diseases is increasing exponentially. It is estimated that next year it will be 180 thousand. The disease, but I've also encountered reports that we might reach 200,000. The number of cases is increasing for both adults and children. Why is genetics so important? Well, the whole world is now moving towards personalized treatment, which is tailored to the individual patient, depending on what genes the patient has, what genes he inherited from his parents, and what genes the patient has in relation to cancer therapy, e.g. chemotherapy, where some genes cause certain cytostatics to be pumped out of the cancer cell, and thus inefficient. The ideal, and probably future therapy, will be genetics, and in fact genetic cancer treatment, so-called. gene therapy. At the Wrocław clinic, one of the patients with non-Hodgkin's malignant lymphoma, who had a fourth relapse, was saved after two autotransplants. Gene therapy, anti-Bcl-2 anti-senses, which inhibited the Bcl-2 gene, was the cause of the disease, which was resistant to the first, second, third and fourth lines of treatment. The patient who received this treatment in Wrocław was a sick child who was 11 years old at the time, that was in 2001. Both chemotherapy and double megachemia were ineffective, because this is the goal of stem cell administration and autografting. Sometimes I am terrified to hear that innovation is expensive, because such therapy is expensive, such a diagnosis is expensive, but human life is priceless. [[Priceless.]] In view of the above, there must be no shortage of money in such a situation. Each tumor requires a thorough diagnosis, and if there is gene therapy somewhere in the world, because many centers already run it, in various cancers, the Polish patient must be able, if all conventional treatments are used, to receive this form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u553	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Robert Majka. There's no envoy. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u554	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The declaration concerns the current situation as regards how the Minister responsible for religious denominations and national and ethnic minorities prepares matters relating to the implementation of the provisions of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5 Constitution on the statutory regulation of relations between the State and the Church. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to answer the following questions concerning the current situation as regards how the Minister responsible for religious denominations and national and ethnic minorities should prepare matters relating to the implementation of the provisions of the Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Constitution on the statutory regulation of relations between the State and the Church and religious unions. Which specifically churches and religious associations have applied for statutory regulation of their relations with the State on this legal basis? When did they apply for this? Which churches and religious associations have submitted draft laws to regulate their relations with the State? When did this happen? What was the procedure of the Minister of Religious Affairs and National and Ethnic Minorities in relation to the draft laws applied, and on what legal basis was this procedure determined? Under the above procedure, was it the principle to agree on the content of the various provisions of the projects in all or only in selected drafts of laws? Have the final arrangements been made? under which draft laws such arrangements have been made? Has the Minister of Religious Affairs and National and Ethnic Minorities been appointed within the framework of the office of the Minister for Religious Religions and Minorities developed draft legal acts specifying the content of the agreement between the church or religious union concerned and the Council of Ministers and the procedure for legislative proceedings concerning the draft laws thus adopted? What are the reasons for the long-term delay of the authorities of the State in the exercise of the constitutional right granted to churches and religious unions to regulate the relations between the State and the church or religious union concerned? Mrs. Marshal! Thank you for your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-19-sejm-84-3.u555	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 84th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 85th session of the Sejm, scheduled for 30 August 2019, will be served to the masters and ladies. We're adjourned. Thank you very much. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 19 min 42]]
